VILLAGE CODE
of
HEYWORTH, ILLINOIS
2011
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-56, passed 9-16-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Heyworth, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-56, passed September 16, 2025,
and resolution 2023- , passed May 18, 2023. Ordinances of the Village adopted
after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that
they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village office in
order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been
amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
HEYWORTH VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Custody And Copies Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the village board of trustees, this code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of
Heyworth. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HEYWORTH
VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and
shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village
as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2011 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2011 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2011 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2011 Code)
1-1-5: CUSTODY AND COPIES OF CODE:
   A.   Official Copies: The village clerk shall keep two (2) copies of this
code current. These copies shall be preserved by the village clerk so that all
amendments thereto and all general ordinances hereafter passed may be inserted
in their appropriate places in such volumes, and all sections of this code or
ordinances repealed from time to time may be extracted therefrom for the
purpose of maintaining such two (2) copies in such condition that they will
show all general ordinances passed up to date at any time in such manner that
ready reference may be had thereto. (1981 Code § 1-7; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Custody And Distribution Of Copies: All the printed codes containing
the revised ordinances shall be in the custody and keeping of the village
clerk. The mayor shall have authority to extend to or reciprocate courtesies of
other cities by presenting to them a copy of this code bound at the expense of
the village in such a manner as to him may seem advisable. (1981 Code § 1-15)
   C.   Purchase Price: Printed copies of this code and any ordinance imposing
any fine, penalty, imprisonment, or forfeiture, or making any appropriation
which may be printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the
village board, shall, so long as such books or pamphlets are in supply, be
available for distribution to the public. The board may impose a reasonable
price commensurate with the cost of the printing thereof for the distribution
of such book or pamphlet to the public. (1981 Code § 1-16)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code are hereby
repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained in the following sections), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed: ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the village; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2011 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2011 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2011 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board of trustees hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and board of trustees may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Official Time: Official time shall be that designated by the law of the
state of Illinois.
   E.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   F.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   G.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   H.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   I.   Or; And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or", if the
sense requires it.
   J.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   K.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   L.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Heyworth".
   M.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   N.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1981 Code §§ 1-
2, 1-20; amd. 2011 Code)
   O.   Position Of Authority Not Filled; Delegation: Whenever a provision
appears requiring the head of a department or some other village officer to do
some act or perform some duty and if there is no individual currently appointed
to or filling that position, that provision shall defer to the mayor or mayor's
designee to administer or carry out that provision unless otherwise prohibited
by law.
   P.   Enforcement Official If Not Otherwise Specified or Prohibited: If a
specif-ic section or chapter of the Village code does not specify an
enforcement offi-cial or position responsible for enforcement of that specific
section or chapter, a Village Code Compliance Officer shall be that enforcement
official unless otherwise prohibited by law. (1981 Code §§ 1-2, 1-20; amd. 2011
Code; Ord. 2013-16, 4-25-2013; Ord. 2024-57, 11-7-2024)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OR BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of
trustees of the village of Heyworth.
CODE: The village code of the village of Heyworth.
COUNTY: The county of McLean, state of Illinois.
IN THE VILLAGE OR WITHIN THE VILLAGE: All territory over which the village now
has or shall hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of its police
powers or other regulatory powers.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The duly elected president of the board of trustees of the village of
Heyworth.
MUNICIPAL AND FISCAL YEAR: The municipal year and the fiscal year of the
village shall commence on May 1 of each year and end on April 30 of the
following year.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property except "real property" as
defined in this section.
PRECEDING; FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements, and hereditaments and shall
embrace all chattels real.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a
matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The village of Heyworth, county of McLean, state of Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1981 Code §§ 1-2, 2-2.10; amd. 2011 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2011
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Suits For Violations
1-4-5: Summons Or Warrant
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
Code or State Statute, any person found to have been in violation of any of the
terms and provisions of this Code shall be fined in an amount not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) and not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six
(6) months for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for each offense may include a
requirement that the offending party perform some reasonable public service
work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or upon
public highways or performing maintenance of public facilities. A violation
hereof may be established by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 2018-30, 6-
21-2018)
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the State,
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the Rules of Criminal
Procedure of the State, and the Village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Other Remedies: In addition to any other remedy specified herein or in
any section of this Code, the Village may seek any other remedy provided for by
law, which may include, but is not limited to, an order to remedy a violation
of any ordinance or violation, or to prohibit future violations.
   D.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by State Statute for the same offense.
   E.   Fines: If a fine is not paid by the date specified by the notice of
violation, each minimum fine specified shall increase in the amount of twenty
five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 2013-37, 9-19-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2011 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Village Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2011 Code)
1-4-4: SUITS FOR VIOLATIONS:
All actions brought to enforce any fine, imprisonment, penalty or forfeiture
under this Code or other ordinances of the Village shall be brought in the
corporate name of the Village as plaintiff. No prosecution, recovery,
conviction, or acquittal for a violation of any provision of this Code or any
other ordinance of the Village shall constitute a defense to any prosecution of
the same party for any other violation of the same provision of this Code or
same ordinance or any other Code provision or ordinance, although the different
causes of action existed at the same time, and if united, would not have
exceeded the jurisdiction of the court. (1981 Code § 1-8)
1-4-5: SUMMONS OR WARRANT:
In all actions for the violation of any provision of this Code or other
ordinance of the Village, the first process shall be a summons or a warrant. A
warrant for the arrest of an accused person may issue upon the affidavit of any
person that a provision of this Code or a Village ordinance has been violated,
and that the person making the complaint has reasonable grounds to believe that
the party charged is guilty thereof. Every person arrested upon a warrant shall
be taken before the court for trial. (1981 Code § 1-9)
ARTICLE A. SETTLEMENT OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
1-4A-1: Procedures For Settlement Of Ordinance Violations
1-4A-2: Settlement Of Certain First Ordinance Violation Charges
1-4A-3: Settlement Of Certain Second Ordinance Violation Charges
1-4A-4: Protest Or Nonsettlement Of Ordinance Violations
1-4A-5: Disposition Of Fines And Penalties
1-4A-1: PROCEDURES FOR SETTLEMENT OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Authority To Issue Ordinance Violations: The Village Police Department
or other designee authorized by the Board of Trustees is hereby authorized to
issue ordinance violations to any person or business entity that hereinafter
violates any ordinance of the Village. (Ord. 2009-70, 5-18-2009)
   B.   Issuance And Notice Of Ordinance Violations: The enforcement official
of a particular ordinance of the Village shall submit notice of the ordinance
violation as specified in that ordinance. If notice procedures are not
specifically set forth in an ordinance, the notice procedures set forth in this
subsection shall apply.
      1.   The enforcement officer and/or relevant prosecuting official(s)
shall issue a citation or other appropriate charging documents for an ordinance
violation to the person or business entity by personal delivery or as
authorized by law.
      2.   The notice, or combination of charging documents, shall specify and
include:
         a.   The ordinance that is violated;
         b.   The person, business, or property that is in violation;
         c.   The date and time at which the violation occurred;
         d.   The minimum penalty that may be imposed for the violation;
         e.   The location at which the payment of fine may be paid;
         f.   The address, if known, of the person, business or property in
violation;
         g.   Name the Village as the prosecuting authority;
         h.   A statement whether the person in violation is required to appear
in court and, if so, the date, time and place of appearance;
         i.   If applicable, the steps the person in violation can take to
avoid an otherwise required appearance; and
         j.   A statement that the defendant may demand a jury trial by filing
a jury demand and paying a jury demand fee when entering his or her appearance,
plea, answer to the charge, or other responsive pleading.
      3.   All persons receiving a notice of violation or combination of
charging documents for an ordinance violation may either:
         a.   Pay the fine amount specified on the notice of violation to the
address provided on the notice; or
         b.   Appear on the date, time, and location specified on the notice or
other charging documents at which a person may protest the ordinance violation.
      4.   If a warrant or default judgment will be sought, the notice or
charging documents shall also include a statement that:
         a.   A default judgement may be entered in the event the person fails
to appear in court or answer the charge made on the date set for the
defendant's court appearance or any date to which the case is continued, as
well as the specific amount of any default judgment; and
         b.   An arrest warrant may issue if the defendant fails to appear at
any hearing. (Ord. 2019-53, 10-3-2019)
1-4A-2: SETTLEMENT OF CERTAIN FIRST ORDINANCE VIOLATION CHARGES:
Persons or business entities who have received a citation for violation of the
sections of this Code hereinafter listed or other applicable sections of this
Code may settle an initial ordinance violation charge by paying the amount set
forth in this section or as specifically set forth in the applicable section of
this Code. (Ord. 2019-53, 10-3-2019)
Offense Code Section     Fine
Offense                                             Code Section     Fine
A. Animal Violations:                                            
  1. Animals running at large                      6-2-4-1      $ 20.00
  2. Dangerous animals                             6-2-4-2      20.00
  3. Disturbing the peace                          6-2-4-3      20.00
  4. Possession of diseased or injured animals     6-2-4-5      20.00
  5. Cruelty to animals                            6-2-4-6      20.00
  6. Dog/cat registration violations               6-2-5-3      50.00
    Second offense                                             100.00
    Third and subsequent offenses                              250.00
  7. Possession of livestock without a permit      6-2-6        20.00
B. Disorderly Conducts:
  1. Unlawful assemblies                           6-3-1        50.00
  2. Disturbing the peace                          6-3-2        50.00
  3. Disorderly conduct                            6-3-3        100.00
  4. Curfew violations                             6-4-1        50.00
  5. Noise violations                              6-5-1        50.00
C. Alcohol Offenses:
  1. Open containers; possession or consumption on 6-3-4A       50.00
      public property
  2. Purchase, possession, consumption by minors   6-3-4B       100.00
    Second offense                                             250.00
D. Traffic/Parking Violations:
  1. Disobeying traffic control devices and signs  7-2-2        50.00
  2. No parking zones                              7-4-2        50.00
  3. Parking places for persons with disabilities  7-4-3        150.00
  4. Muffler violations                            7-6-2        50.00
  5. Gas and smoke emissions                       7-6-4        50.00
 
(Ord. 2009-70, 5-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-05, 2-2-2017)
1-4A-3: SETTLEMENT OF CERTAIN SECOND ORDINANCE VIOLATION CHARGES:
Any persons or business entities with a violation of a Village ordinance who
has previously settled a charge pursuant to section
1-4A-2 of this article or has received court supervision or been convicted of
any Village ordinance violation may settle the second violation by payment as
set forth in section
1-4A-2 of this article, plus an additional one hundred dollars ($100.00) unless
otherwise specified in section
1-4A-2 of this article or in the specific nuisance or ordinance alleged to be
violated. (Ord. 2019-53, 10-3-2019)
1-4A-4: PROTEST OR NONSETTLEMENT OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS:
If any person or business entity either protests a citation or other charging
documents issued for an ordinance violation or does not meet the requirements
set forth in this article to settle an ordinance violation, the notice of the
date, time and location of the ordinance violation location shall constitute
notice for purposes hereof. If a citation with the date, time and location of
when and where to protest an ordinance violation is not personally served, a
summons shall be issued, by certified mail return receipt requested, to the
violating party. If a party protests or does not settle an ordinance violation
as set forth in this article, that party may not later settle the ordinance
violation except at the location specified by the Village for the prosecution
of ordinance violations. (Ord. 2019-53, 10-3-2019)
1-4A-5: DISPOSITION OF FINES AND PENALTIES:
All fines, penalties, and forfeitures for the violation of ordinances, when
collected, shall be paid into the Treasury of the Village. (Ord. 2009-70, 5-18-
2009)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Ordinances
1-5-2: Corporate Seal
1-5-3: Electronic Participation Or Remote Attendance Policy For Public Meetings
1-5-1: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Enacting Style: The enacting style of all ordinances shall be: "Be it
ordained by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Heyworth".
(1981 Code § 1-10)
   B.   Signature Required: All ordinances passed by the village must be signed
by the mayor or by two (2) members of the board of trustees. (1981 Code § 1-11)
   C.   Record And Memorandum Required: The village clerk shall record, in a
book used exclusively for that purpose, all ordinances passed by the village.
Immediately following each ordinance, the village clerk shall make a memorandum
of the date of the passage and publication, where required, of the ordinance.
This record and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie
evidence of the contents, passage, and publication of ordinances. (1981 Code §
1-12; amd. 2011 Code)
   D.   Proof Of Ordinances:
      1.   The contents of all village ordinances, the date of passage, and the
date of publication, where required, may be proved by the certificate of the
village clerk, under the seal of the village. (1981 Code § 1-13; amd. 2011
Code)
      2.   Whenever village ordinances are printed in book or pamphlet form and
purport to be published by authority of the village, such book or pamphlet
shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage, and legal publication
of such ordinances, as of the dates mentioned in such book or pamphlet, in all
courts and administrative tribunals. (1981 Code § 1-13)
   E.   Publication; Effective Dates: All ordinances of the village imposing
any fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation,
shall comply with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-4, as amended. (1981 Code
§ 1-14; amd. 2011 Code)
1-5-2: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Description: A seal or disk in a circular form with the words "Village
of Heyworth, Illinois" on the outer circle, and in the interior and center of
said circle the word "seal", shall be the seal of the village, to be used in
all cases that have been or shall hereafter be provided by the laws of the
United States, the laws of the several respective states of the United States,
and the ordinances of the village, and in all cases in which, by laws and
customs of corporations, it is necessary to use a seal by a corporation. (1981
Code § 1-18)
   B.   Custodian; Official Use: The village clerk shall be the custodian of
the corporate seal. He shall affix the impression of the corporate seal to all
commissions or other official documents required to be issued by him and attest
or countersign the same. He shall affix the seal to all official acts of the
mayor which require it and, if necessary, attest the same. He shall also
certify, under the corporate seal, copies of any records, ordinances,
documents, or papers in his office when required by any village officer or
other person. In no case shall the impression of the corporate seal be binding
upon the village, unless it be authorized by the laws or ordinances of the
village and is attested by the official signature of the village clerk. (1981
Code § 1-19)
1-5-3: ELECTRONIC PARTICIPATION OR REMOTE ATTENDANCE POLICY FOR PUBLIC
MEETINGS:
   A.   Policy Statement: It is the policy of the village that any member of
the village may attend and participate in any open or closed meeting of the
village from a remote location by way of telephone, video or internet
connection; provided, that such attendance and participation is in compliance
with this policy and any other applicable laws.
   B.   Definition Of Meetings: The term "meeting", as used in this section,
refers to any gathering, whether in person or by video or audio conference,
telephone call, electronic means (such as, without limitation, electronic mail,
electronic chat, and instant messaging), or other means of contemporaneous
interactive communication, of a majority of a quorum of the members of a public
body held for the purposes of discussing public business.
   C.   Prerequisites: A member of the village may attend a meeting from a
remote location if the member meets the following conditions:
      1.   A quorum is physically present throughout the meeting; and
      2.   A majority of a quorum of the village votes to approve the remote
attendance; and
      3.   The member should notify the village clerk at least twenty four (24)
hours before the meeting so that necessary communications equipment can be
arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in
denial of a request for remote attendance; and
      4.   The member must assert one of the following three (3) reasons why he
or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         a.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
         b.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the village;
         c.   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency;
or
         d.   The member cannot attend due to an unexpected childcare
obligation.
   D.   Voting Procedures: After a roll call establishing that a quorum is
physically present, any member present may move that a member be permitted to
participate remotely, specifying the reason entitling the absent member to
participate remotely. All of the members physically present are permitted to
vote on whether remote participation will be allowed. The motion must be
approved by a vote of a majority of the quorum.
   E.   Adequate Equipment Required: The member participating remotely and
other members of the village must be able to communicate effectively, and
members of the audience must be able to hear all communications. Before
approving remote attendance at any meeting, the village shall provide equipment
adequate to accomplish this objective.
   F.   Minutes: Any member participating remotely shall be considered an off
site participant and counted as present by means of video or audio conference
for that meeting if the member is allowed to participate. The meeting minutes
shall also reflect and state specifically whether each member is physically
present, present by video, or present by audio means.
   G.   Rights Of Remote Member: A member permitted to participate remotely
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The remote member shall be heard, considered, and counted as to any vote taken.
Accordingly, the name of any remote member shall be called during any vote
taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded by the village clerk and placed
in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member participating remotely
may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any member.
   H.   Closed Meetings: A quorum of the village must be physically present at
any closed meeting. Members participating remotely shall otherwise be entitled
to participate in closed meetings by video or audio conference in the same
manner as at an open meeting.
   I.   Application To Committees, Boards And Commissions: This policy shall
apply to all committees, boards and commissions established by authority of the
village. However, when remote attendance is possible only by audio connection
and an off site member will be unable to view visual exhibits or demonstrations
which may influence a decision by the committee, board or commission, remote
attendance should not be approved. (Ord. 2008-02, 1-22-2008; amd. Ord. 11-7-
2024)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR, BOARD OF TRUSTEES, AND MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Composition
1-6-2: Terms Of Office
1-6-3: Vacancies In Office
1-6-4: Salaries
1-6-5: Board Of Trustees Powers And Duties
1-6-6: Mayor
1-6-7: Meetings
1-6-8: Rules Governing Meetings
1-6-9: Procedure Of Meetings
1-6-10: Standing Committees
1-6-11: Committee Of The Whole
1-6-1: ELECTION; COMPOSITION:
The Village shall be governed by a Board of Trustees which shall be elected at
large and shall consist of a Mayor and six (6) Trustees. (Ord. 2009-33, 4-6-
2009)
1-6-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Trustees: The term of office of the Trustees shall be four (4) years
and until their successors are elected and have qualified. After the first
election, three (3) Trustees shall be elected by the electors of the Village
for a four (4) year term at the regular Village election held on the first
Tuesday in April of each odd numbered year, as provided by statute. The term of
office of newly elected Trustees shall commence at the first Village Board
meeting in May following the election provided that the McLean County Clerk has
certified the official election results, he or she has qualified, and taken the
oath of office; otherwise, the newly elected Trustee shall commence his or her
term of office at the first meeting after the official election results have
been certified by the McLean County Clerk, has been qualified and has taken the
oath of office after the first meeting in May.
   B.   Mayor: The term of office of the Mayor shall be four (4) years. He
shall be elected by the electors of the Village at the regular Village election
held on the first Tuesday in April 1981, and each fourth year thereafter. The
term of office of a newly elected Mayor shall commence at the first Village
Board meeting in May following the election provided that the McLean County
Clerk has certified the official election results, he or she has qualified, and
has taken the oath of office; otherwise, the newly elected Mayor shall commence
his or her term of office at the first meeting after the official election
results have been certified by the McLean County Clerk, has been qualified and
has taken the oath of office after the first meeting in May. (Ord. 2019-27, 6-
6-2019)
1-6-3: VACANCIES IN OFFICE:
Vacancy in the Office of Trustee or Mayor shall be filled as prescribed by the
Illinois Municipal Code. (Ord. 2009-33, 4-6-2009)
1-6-4: SALARIES:
The salaries of the Municipal elected officers shall be established as set
forth by ordinance. (Ord. 2009-33, 4-6-2009)
1-6-5: BOARD OF TRUSTEES POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The powers of the Village Board of Trustees shall be purely
legislative, except as may be otherwise provided by any other act or by any
other article of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   B.   In accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-45-5, the Board
of Trustees shall exercise the same powers and perform the same duties as the
City Council in cities.
   C.   The Board of Trustees shall pass ordinances, resolutions, and motions
in the same manner as a City Council.
   D.   The Board of Trustees shall approve for payment of all expenses and
liabilities of the Village. (Res. 2006-09, 5-1-2006)
1-6-6: MAYOR:
   A.   President Of Board Of Trustees: The Mayor shall be President of the
Board of Trustees as provided by statute. The President may be designated Mayor
of the Village. The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of all regular and
special meetings of the Village Board.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Chief Executive Officer: The Mayor shall be the Chief Executive
Officer of the Village and shall perform all such duties as may be required of
him by statute or ordinance. He shall have general supervision over all the
executive officers of the Village and over all of the employees of the Village.
      2.   Designation Of Duties: The Mayor shall settle any question as to the
respective powers or duties of any appointed officer or employee of the
Village. He shall have the power to delegate to any such officer any duty which
is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform the
duty.
      3.   Veto Powers:
         a.   Ordinances: The Mayor may veto any ordinance, in whole or in
part, by returning the ordinance, without signature, to the Board of Trustees
at the next regularly scheduled meeting after passage, together with his
written objections thereto. The Trustees then holding office shall, at the
regularly scheduled meeting after the meeting at which the Mayor submits his
written objections to the ordinance, reconsider the ordinance, and if, after
such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the Trustees then holding office
vote to pass the ordinance, the ordinance shall go into effect.
         b.   Resolutions And Motions: The Mayor may veto all resolutions and
motions, in whole or in part, that create any liability against the Village,
that provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its monies, or that sell
any Village property by filing a written objection with the Board of Trustees
at the next regularly scheduled meeting after passage of the resolution or
motion. The Trustees then holding office shall, at the regularly scheduled
meeting after the meeting at which the Mayor submits his written objections to
the resolution or motion, reconsider the resolution or motion, and if, after
such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the Trustees then holding office
vote to pass the resolution or motion, that resolution or motion shall go into
effect.
      4.   Suspension Of Officers Or Employees: The Mayor shall have the power
to suspend any officer or employee appointed by him on any formal charge
whenever he is of the opinion that the interests of the Village demand such
suspension. He shall report the reasons for such action to the Board at a
meeting to be held not less than five (5) days nor more than ten (10) days
after such suspension. The Board shall determine the final disposition of any
charge by dismissal or otherwise.
      5.   Licenses: The Mayor shall grant licenses for the purposes authorized
by this Code to such persons as he may deem proper, unless the Board shall
otherwise provide, and he may revoke the same for cause.
      6.   Signature: The Mayor shall sign all Village warrants, commissions,
permits and licenses granted by authority of the Board, except as otherwise
provided, and such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his
official signature.
   C.   Mayor Or President Pro Tem; Temporary Chairperson:
      1.   Mayor Or President Pro Tem: If the Mayor or President is temporarily
absent because of an incapacity to perform official duties, but the incapacity
does not create a vacancy in the office, the Corporate Authorities shall elect
one of their members to act as Mayor or President Pro Tem. The Mayor or
President Pro Tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform the duties
and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor or President but shall not
be entitled to vote both as Mayor or President Pro Tem and as Trustee.
      2.   Temporary Chairperson: In the absence of the Mayor, President,
acting Mayor or President, or Mayor or President Pro Tem, the Corporate
Authorities may elect one of their members to act as a temporary Chairperson.
The temporary Chairperson shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and
a right to vote only in the capacity as Trustee on any ordinance, resolution,
or motion. (Ord. 2009-33, 4-6-2009)
1-6-7: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The Board of Trustees shall, unless otherwise ordered
by ordinance of the Board of Trustees, hold its regular meetings at the Village
Hall on the first and third Thursdays of each month at six thirty o’clock (6:
30) P.M., except when such date falls on a legal holiday, in which event, the
meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day or at such other
times as the Board may prescribe by ordinance. Public notice of regular
meetings shall be given as required by the Open Meetings Act 1 .
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   The Mayor or any three (3) of the Trustees may call special meetings
of the Board of Trustees at any time 2 . The Clerk or his duly authorized
designee shall notify all members of the Board of Trustees of such meeting at
least forty eight (48) hours before the same is held, by delivering a written
notice stating the time and place of such meeting to each member personally or
by leaving the notice at his residence. Public notice of special meetings shall
be given as required by the Open Meetings Act 3 .
      2.   Whenever all of the members of the Board of Trustees are present at
any meeting at which a special meeting is scheduled, the requirement of notice
of the special meeting shall be deemed waived.
   C.   Committee Of The Whole Meetings: A Committee of the Whole meeting may
be called by the Mayor or by any three (3) Trustees 4 .
   D.   Open Meetings: All committee, Board, and Committee of the Whole
meetings, except those exempted by State Statute, shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 2009-35, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-6, 2-7-2013; Ord. 2020-46, 6-18-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.02, 120/2.03.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25.
3 3. 5 ILCS 120/2.02.
4 4. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25.
1-6-8: RULES GOVERNING MEETINGS:
   A.   Quorum: A majority of the Corporate Authorities shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business. However, a smaller number shall have
the power to compel the attendance of absent members and to adjourn to such
time as they may designate.
   B.   Absent Trustees:
      1.   Summons Demanding Presence: In case of the want of a quorum at any
time and in case a majority of the Board of Trustees present shall direct the
Mayor or presiding officer to do so, the Mayor shall have served, by a police
officer of the Village, a summons on any absent Trustee demanding the immediate
presence of such Trustee at the meeting if he is able to attend.
      2.   Fine: Any Trustee who shall ignore such notice or who shall wilfully
fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the Board of Trustees without
good cause may be fined twenty five dollars ($25.00) upon a majority vote of
the Board of Trustees.
      3.   Nonfeasance Of Office: If any Trustee refuses to attend four (4)
meetings after receiving such notice, such Trustee shall be deemed guilty of
nonfeasance of office, and the Board of Trustees may, with the concurrence of
two-thirds (2/3) of all of the Board of Trustees, expel such Trustee, in which
case, his seat shall become vacant and shall be filled as any other vacancy as
provided by ordinance or State Statute.
   C.   Deliberations Of Board: The latest edition of "Robert's Rules of Order"
shall govern the deliberations of the Board of Trustees except when in conflict
with any of the provisions of Village ordinances or State Statutes 1 .
   D.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time upon motion and affirmative roll call
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members of the Board of Trustees.
   E.   Question Of Rescinding Vote: No vote of the Board of Trustees shall be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting thereof unless, at such
special meeting, there shall be present as many members as were present when
such vote was taken 2 .
   F.   Public Comment/Addressing A Public Body: All public meetings of any
public body of the Village of Heyworth shall allow for public comment subject
to the following:
      1.   Citizens may cordially address comments or concerns to the public
body as a whole for not more than three (3) minutes each about items pertaining
to the agenda.
      2.   The public comment period at any meeting shall not exceed two (2)
hours in total.
      3.   The person presiding over a meeting shall address the public
individually during public comment. After being addressed individually to
speak, individuals are requested to clearly state their name and, if
appropriate, whether they represent an organization or party.
      4.   Unruly or inappropriate behavior will not be allowed at a meeting.
Failure to adhere to appropriate behavior and etiquette may cause for cessation
of public comment of the individual(s) and possible removal.
      5.   Repetitious or disruptive comments may be limited.
      6.   Public comment at public body meetings should not be considered a
time for dialogue with individual members of the public body. Those wishing to
speak with an individual of a public body should do so outside the times of the
meeting.
      7.   The Mayor, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Trustees, or the
person presiding over a public body meeting may suspend the above rules in
order to allow for additional public comment if deemed appropriate.
   G.   Conduct And Recordings At Meetings:
      1.   All persons that attend a meeting or hearing of the Village shall
conduct themselves in an orderly manner and in such a manner so as to not
unreasonably interfere with the business at hand or overall decorum of such
meeting or hearing.
      2.   Recordings: Any person may record the proceedings at meetings
required to be open by the Illinois Open Meetings Act by tape, film or other
means subject to the following:
         a.   The means by which the recording is performed shall not be placed
or used in such a manner so as to unreasonably obstruct the view of other
persons at the meeting or invade the personal space of any such person;
         b.   The recording device does not emit an unreasonable sound or light
that interferes with the business at hand;
         c.   If a witness at an open meeting conducted by a commission,
administrative agency, or other tribunal refuses to testify if any portion of
his or her testimony is to be broadcast or televised or if motion pictures are
to be taken of the witness while testifying, then the public body holding the
meeting shall prohibit such recording during the testimony of the witness; this
exception applies to quasi-judicial proceedings only; or
         d.   Any other such reason as adopted by formal action of the Village
Board or as allowed by law.
   H.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or
disrupt any meeting of the Board of Trustees or any committee thereof. Any
person violating the provisions of this subsection shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense.
   I.   Passage Of Ordinances And Expenditure Of Monies: All ordinances and any
resolution or motion that creates any liability against the Village or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its monies and upon the question of the passage
of any other resolution or motion at the request of the member of the Board of
Trustees shall be taken by votes of yea, nay or present and shall be recorded
in the journal of its proceedings.
   J.   Placing Items For Action On An Agenda: The Mayor or any two (2)
Trustees may place an action for vote on an agenda of a Board meeting. The two
(2) Trustees shall contact the Village Clerk or his/her designee with the
specifics of the action to be taken no less than forty eight (48) hours in
advance of the meeting in order for it to be included on the next Board meeting
agenda. (Ord. 2009-35, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-22, 9-4-2014; Ord. 2015-47, 11-
19-2015; Ord. 2020-46, 6-18-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-55.
1-6-9: PROCEDURE OF MEETINGS:
   A.   Board Of Trustees Meeting: If a quorum is present, a meeting of the
Board of Trustees shall proceed substantially in the following order:
      1.   The minutes of the last meeting shall be reviewed, any amendments
deemed necessary shall be made and approval shall occur of the same. The
minutes standing shall be considered approved unless objected to.
      2.   Consent agenda/approval of submitted items and audit of fund
expenditures.
      3.   Reports of officers and officials.
      4.   Citizens recognized/public comment.
      5.   Old business.
      6.   Reports of committees.
      7.   New business.
      8.   Approval of action items including ordinances, resolutions and
motions. Action items cannot be approved unless posted and published by law and
not less than forty eight (48) hours prior to vote on the item unless otherwise
proscribed by statute.
      9.   Executive session (if needed).
      10.   Adjournment.
   B.   Committee Meetings: If a quorum is present, a committee meeting of the
Village shall proceed substantially in the manner set forth in the agenda
posted for that committee meeting.
   C.   Deviation Of Procedure: The procedure of meetings as listed above may
be deviated in order to improve the conduct of business of the public body.
(Ord. 2009-35, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-22, 9-4-2014; Ord. 2020-46, 6-18-2020)
1-6-10: STANDING COMMITTEES:
   A.   Creation; Dissolution: The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees, may, by ordinance, create or dissolve any standing committee
deemed necessary and in the best interest of the Village.
   B.   Selection; Chairperson: The Board of Trustees, by a majority vote,
shall select the members of all standing committees and designate a Chairperson
for each committee every two (2) years at or after the first meeting in May, or
as soon thereafter as is practicable, following a general election of Trustees.
In case of a tie, the Mayor shall issue a vote when determining the members and
Chairperson of standing committees. The members and duties of the standing
committees may be amended at any time as deemed necessary by the Mayor and
Board of Trustees.
   C.   Duties And Functions:
      1.   The Mayor and Board of Trustees, by majority vote, shall mutually
designate the duties of the standing committees at or after the first meeting
in May following a general election of Trustees. In case of a tie, the Mayor
shall issue a vote when determining the duties of the standing committees.
      2.   The primary function of standing committees is one of policy
recommendation. The actual administration of a particular Municipal activity or
department remains the responsibility of the administrative official in charge
thereof. Committees shall conduct investigations, make detailed studies of
pending proposals, keep in close contact with the work of the various Municipal
departments and officials, perform detail work when it is not feasible to pass
upon such work at a meeting of the Board of Trustees, submit recommendations to
the Board of Trustees for official action, or any other authority prescribed by
ordinance.
   D.   Committee Procedure: Pursuant to and consistent with this section, the
following is the Village policy regarding committee procedure:
      1.   From time to time, various issues and situations are presented to
the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
      2.   If possible and practical, such issues shall be directed to the
appropriate committee addressing such issues. If there is not an appropriate
committee to address the issue, then the Mayor and/or Board of Trustees shall
collectively make a determination as to what shall be done to address the issue
or situation.
      3.   The committee shall place the issue on the agenda for the next
committee meeting and debate/discuss the issue.
      4.   a.   The committee, by a majority vote, shall have the prima facie
(appearance of) authority necessary to use appointed agents (i.e., attorney,
engineer, etc.) and Village employees (i.e., Administrative Assistants,
Superintendents, etc.) to gather information, perform research and other minor
tasks to aid the committee in addressing the issue.
         b.   Should a situation arise as to whether the use of an appointed
agent or Village employee pursuant to subsection D4a of this section is
authorized or permitted, said appointed agent or Village employee shall be
allowed to contact the Mayor or wait until the next Board of Trustees meeting,
whichever is sooner, before acting pursuant to the direction of the committee.
If said appointed official or Village employee contacts the Mayor, the Mayor's
direction shall be final on said appointed official or Village employee until
the next full Board of Trustees meeting.
      5.   The committee shall make a report or verbally state an opinion,
through its Chairperson, at the Board of Trustees meeting.
      6.   The full Board of Trustees shall then have the ability to accept,
reject or otherwise act on that opinion and issue.
   E.   Trustee And Committee Excess Or Abuse Of Authority: Should any Trustee
or committee exceed the authority provided for in this section, that Trustee or
those Trustees shall be subject to reprimand as provided for in the Village
Ethics Ordinance which is located in chapter 12 of this title and as provided
for in any other applicable local, State, or Federal law.
   F.   Committees Enumerated: The current standing committees of the Village
Board of Trustees are as follows:
      1.   Economic Development, Planning and Zoning.
      2.   Parks and Recreation.
      3.   Streets and Public Utilities.
   G.   Purpose And Responsibilities: The purpose and responsibilities of each
standing committee shall be as follows:
      1.   Economic Development, Planning And Zoning Committee:
         a.   The Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Committee shall be
the committee providing oversight over:
            (1)   Planning And Economic Development: Review and recommend
approval, modification or denial of all aspects of subdivision creation,
including, but not limited to, streets, water, and sewer infrastructure
oversight; the modification or re-subdividing of land; the planning for future
growth and development in the corporate limits and extraterritorial authority;
and other economic development;
            (2)   Real Estate: The purchase, sale or lease of Village property
or potential Village property; review existing real property issues currently
within the Village, such as areas where easements, rights-of-way, and other
encumbrances need to be obtained for existing infrastructure within the
Village; and after locating existing areas of need, planning for and working
through ways to remedy and correct those areas of need, such as obtaining
easements, rights-of-way and other real property matters to correct existing
issues as well as improve the current real property areas of the Village for
the betterment of the community;
            (3)   TIF And Business Development Districts: Along with the
administration and any TIF and/or Business Development District consultants of
the Village, coordinate TIF and Business Development agreements and oversee the
formation and development of proposed TIF and Business Development districts;
            (4)   Annexations: Review proposed annexations and annexation
agreements, and analyze and provide recommendation for the possible annexation
of nearby property;
            (5)   Planning Commission: Assist in the formation and general
oversight of planning commission matters of the Village;
            (6)   Building Construction And Property Maintenance: Along with
the administrating officials of the Village, review new building construction
matters or the remodel, reconstruction, repair or maintenance of existing
structures;
            (7)   Zoning: General matters relating to zoning in the
jurisdiction of the Village that are not under the purview of the Zoning Board
of Appeals or Zoning Administrating Official;
            (8)   Code Compliance Oversight: Review and give recommendation as
to code compliance ordinances, violations presented to the committee, and other
issues related to code compliance not under the purview of the Code Compliance
Officer or other appropriate administrating official;
            (9)   Business Licenses: Review and recommend regulations
affiliated with business licenses in the Village; and
            (10)   Code Review Of Health And Sanitation, Building, Zoning,
Subdivision Regulation And Annexation Codes: Review, at least once annually,
and make recommendations for amendment, if necessary, for the Village Codes
related to health and sanitation codes, which are currently located in title 5;
building codes, which are currently located in title 10; zoning regulations,
which are currently located in title 11; subdivision regulations, which are
currently located in title 12; and annexations, which are currently located in
title 13.
         b.   The Economic Development, Planning, and Zoning Committee shall
not be responsible for providing oversight over:
            (1)   Streets And Public Utilities: The installation, maintenance,
or planning of existing streets, public utilities and infrastructure in
existing developments or subdivisions;
            (2)   Security Issues: The enforcement of security matters of the
Village may be the responsibility of the Police Department or the
administration of the Village;
            (3)   Code Compliance And Enforcement Of Nuisance And Ordinance
Violations: The enforcement of nuisance and ordinance violations that are the
responsibility of the administration and/or the appropriate administrating
officials of the Village.
            (4)   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Zoning Board Of Appeals Or
Planning Commission: Shall not perform the duties or responsibilities of the
Village's Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission.
      2.   Parks And Recreation:
         a.   The Parks and Recreation Committee shall be the committee
providing oversight over:
            (1)   Parks And Playgrounds: The review and recommendation of the
equipment, landscape, and improvements of the current and future parks of the
Village;
            (2)   Special Events: Help coordinate and making recommendations
for the entertainment and special events that occur in the Village that are
conducted by the Village if such authority is specifically authorized by the
Village Board;
            (3)   Green Initiatives And Ecology: The review and recommendation
of "green" initiatives and ecology for the Village;
            (4)   Conservation And Habitation: The review and recommendation of
ways to improve conservation and habitation throughout the Village;
            (5)   Animal Control: The review and recommendation of ways to
improve animal control or when there is need to address new animal control
considerations of the Village; and
            (6)   Code Review Of Parks And Recreation And Environmental Codes:
Review, at least once annually, the Village Codes related to parks and
recreation, which are currently located in chapter 5 of title 8 of this code,
and animal control regulations currently located in chapter 2 of title 6 of
this code.
         b.   The Parks and Recreation Committee shall not be responsible for
providing oversight over:
            (1)   Code Compliance And Enforcement Of Nuisance And Ordinance
Violations: The enforcement of nuisance and ordinance violations, which is the
responsibility of the administration and or the appropriate administrating
officials of the Village.
      3.   Streets And Public Utilities:
         a.   The Streets and Public Utilities Committee shall be the committee
providing oversight over:
            (1)   Streets, Alleys And Sidewalks: After streets, alleys, rights-
of-way and sidewalks have been dedicated to the Village, or for property
currently owned by the Village, providing recommendation for the maintenance,
construction, reconstruction or planning over streets, alleys, rights-of-way
and sidewalks in the Village, including contracts related to improvements
thereto;
            (2)   Driveways, Culverts And Drainage: Along with the public works
supervisor(s), providing recommendation for ways to plan, improve or maintain
drainage, driveway approaches on Village rights-of-way only, and culverts
throughout the Village;
            (3)   Storm Sewer Installations: The oversight and installation of
storm sewer maintenance, installations, or finance related to underground storm
sewer installations.
            (4)   Public Utilities And Rights-of-Way: Along with the Village
public works supervisor(s), providing recommendations for ways to improve and
maintain the rights-of-way and locations of public utilities in the Village;
and
            (5)   Water Treatment Plant: Along with public works supervisor(s)
and administration of the Village, review and provide recommendations for the
maintenance and improvements related to the water treatment plant(s) of the
Village, including contracts related thereto;
            (6)   Wells, Towers And Mains: Along with public works supervisor
(s) and the administration of the Village, review and provide recommendations
for the maintenance and improvements related to the public wells, water towers,
and water main systems of the Village including contracts related thereto;
            (7)   Sewerage Plant And System: Along with the public works
supervisor(s) and the administration of the Village, review and provide
recommendations for the maintenance and improvements related to the sewerage
plants and sewerage system of the Village, including contracts related thereto;
            (8)   Garbage And Recycling Management: Along with the
administration of the Village, review and provide recommendation for ways to
improve the garbage and recycling collection and management in the Village,
including contracts related thereto; and
            (9)   Review Of Accidents: In conjunction with the administration
of the Village, review accidents subject the Accident Investigation Policy of
the Village;
            (10)   Code Review Of Public Ways, Public Utilities, Garbage:
Review, at least once annually, the Village Codes related to the public ways
and property, which are currently located in title 8 of this code; the water,
sewer, drainage, streets and garbage ordinances of the Village, which are
currently located in title 9 of this code.
         b.   The Streets and Public Utilities Committee shall not be
responsible for providing oversight over:
            (1)   Code Compliance And Enforcement Of Nuisance And Ordinance
Violations: The enforcement of nuisance and ordinance violations, which is the
responsibility of the administration and or the appropriate administrating
officials of the Village.
            (2)   Streets, Alleys, Sidewalks, Drainage And Public Utilities
During Subdivision Creation: The oversight and negotiation of streets, alleys,
sidewalks, drainage and public utilities during subdivision creation.
      4.   Budgets: On or before February 1 of each calendar year, each
standing committee may submit a written estimated budget of funds that is
suggested to be allocated for projects or items addressed by such committee
during the next Village fiscal year to the Budget Officer and the Committee of
the Whole for Finance and Audits of the Village. Each committee may also
hereinafter create and submit to the Committee of the Whole for Finance and
Audit a five (5) year and twenty (20) year plan of proposed capital improvement
projects and major expenses by February 1 after the date of adoption of this
section and review and amend these plans, if necessary, on or before February 1
of each year thereafter.
      5.   Meetings: Each standing committee shall hold such public meetings as
may be necessary to attend to all matters referred to such committee. The time
and place of all public meetings shall be determined by the Chairperson of each
standing committee. Special meetings of each standing committee may be called
at any time by the Chairperson or any two (2) members of each standing
committee. Public notice of committee meetings shall be given in accordance
with the Open Meetings Act. (Ord. 2009-51, 5-4-2009; amd. Ord. 2011-32, 7-18-
2011; Ord. 2019-26, 6-6-2019; Ord. 2019-58, 10-17-2019; Ord. 2023-32, 5-18-
2023)
1-6-11: COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a Committee of the Whole which shall
be composed of the Mayor and all members of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Purpose; Intent: The purpose and intent of Committee of the Whole
meetings shall be primarily for discussion of items intended to be brought
before the Village Board of Trustees and various matters which require a
presentation and/or upon which discussion is anticipated, but not for action on
ordinances, resolutions or motions.
   C.   Meetings: The Board of Trustees may meet as a Committee of the Whole
when necessary. Public notice shall be given as required by the Open Meetings
Act 1 . The rules governing meetings stated in section
1-6-8 of this chapter shall apply. (Ord. 2013-6, 2-7-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.02, 120/2.03.
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Compensation
1-7-1: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Salaries: The salaries of the appointed officers and officials of the
village shall be as established in the annual wage and salary ordinance adopted
by the Village Board of Trustees.
   B.   Mileage Rate: The standard mileage reimbursement rate at the IRS
standard mileage reimbursement rate. (Res. 2008-07, 2-4-2008; amd. Ord. 2009-
33, 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-134, 12-21-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; 2011 Code; Ord. 2024-
45, 8-1-2024)
CHAPTER 8
APPOINTIVE VILLAGE OFFICIALS
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8A-2: Bond And Oath
1-8A-3: Qualifications
1-8A-4: Powers And Duties Enumerated
1-8A-5: Duties Concerning Documents
1-8A-6: Additional Duties
1-8A-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees. The appointment shall become effective commencing at
the first regularly scheduled meeting following the general Municipal election
for Mayor in the Village and shall be to a four (4) year term unless removed by
the Mayor or by resolution of the Board of Trustees prior to that date, per
State Statute. Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as
outlined in the annual budget. (Ord. 2009-13, 2-17-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
1-8A-2: BOND AND OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of office, the Village Clerk shall execute a
bond with sureties in such amount to be fixed by resolution and to be approved
by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
Clerk's duties as set forth herein or by statute, and conditioned upon the
indemnification of the Village for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or
any requirement of the Clerk. The Clerk shall take the oath of office as
prescribed by statute. (Ord. 2009-13, 2-17-2009)
1-8A-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-40, 5-18-2017)
1-8A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES ENUMERATED:
The Village Clerk shall have all the powers and perform all the duties now or
hereafter provided by the laws of the State of Illinois and the ordinances of
the Village. The Village Clerk shall, among other things, have the following
duties:
   A.   Office: Keep an office at the Village Hall or such other place
appointed by the Village Board of Trustees.
   B.   Attend Board Meetings: Attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees and
take minutes of all its proceedings.
   C.   Records: Record such minutes, together with all ordinances passed by
the Board of Trustees, in books to be kept for that purpose.
   D.   Publications: Publish all proceedings of the Board of Trustees and all
ordinances required by law to be published.
   E.   Notices: Serve all notices, either by personal service, by publication
or by posting, required by law or the order of the Village Board or the Mayor,
unless such notices are expressly ordered to be served by some other person.
   F.   Elections: Notify and declare the results of any election or
appointment to office, notify all persons elected or appointed to any Village
office of their election or appointment, and unless such persons shall
respectively qualify within ten (10) days after such notice, notify that the
office has become vacant.
   G.   Oath Of Office: Administer the oath of office to each such person so
elected or appointed; except, that the Mayor shall administer such oath of
office to the Clerk.
   H.   Filings: File all ordinances, communications, receipts and documents
required to be filed and arrange the same in systematic order for ready
reference.
   I.   Seal: Keep the Corporate Seal of the Village and affix the same to all
papers which require it.
   J.   Custodian Of Records: Be the custodian and keeper of all the books,
records, ordinances and papers of the Village, except as otherwise provided by
law or ordinance.
   K.   Evidence: Make copies of any papers in the Clerk's Office and
transcripts from journals and other records certified under the Corporate Seal
for use in evidence when required.
   L.   Tax Levy: File or cause to be filed a certified copy of each Tax Levy
Ordinance with the County Clerk within the time required by law.
   M.   Records Of Terms Of Office Of Officials: Maintain a record of the date
of commencement and expiration of the term of office of each elected Village
official and of each appointed Village official or officer. (Ord. 2009-13, 2-
17-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-40, 5-18-2017)
1-8A-5: DUTIES CONCERNING DOCUMENTS:
   A.   The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging to
the Village which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer. The
Village Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and
records kept by the Clerk for ready access and use.
   B.   The Village Clerk shall keep a full record of all licenses granted,
transferred or revoked by the Village Board of Trustees or the Mayor, or under
their authority, with the date that the same were granted, transferred or
revoked, and if revoked, the cause of revocation, with the number and the full
names and residences of applicants for such licenses. These shall be kept in a
book along with bonds and the names of the sureties. All petitions or other
communications addressed to the Board of Trustees shall be received by the
Village Clerk and read at the next meeting of the Board of Trustees succeeding
their receipt, unless otherwise ordered by the Mayor and/or the Board of
Trustees. The Clerk shall, without delay, deliver to the officers of the
Village, and to any committee of the Board of Trustees, all communications
referred to such officers or committees by the Mayor or the Board of Trustees.
   C.   The Village Clerk shall, without delay, deliver to the Mayor all
ordinances or resolutions which may require approval or other action by the
Mayor, with all papers on which the same were founded. (Ord. 2009-13, 2-17-
2009; amd. Ord. 2017-40, 5-18-2017)
1-8A-6: ADDITIONAL DUTIES:
In addition to the duties provided in this article, the Village Clerk shall
perform such other duties and functions as may be required by the Mayor,
statute, or ordinance, or by resolution of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2009-
13, 2-17-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-40, 5-18-2017)
ARTICLE B. DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Created; Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8B-2: Bond And Oath
1-8B-3: Qualifications
1-8B-4: Powers And Duties
1-8B-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the Office of Deputy Village Clerk. The Village Clerk,
when authorized by resolution by the Board of Trustees, shall appoint a Deputy
Village Clerk whose term shall not exceed the term of Office of the Village
Clerk. The salary of the Deputy Village Clerk shall be determined by the Board
of Trustees as outlined in the annual budget. (Ord. 2009-12, 2-17-2009; amd.
2011 Code)
1-8B-2: BOND AND OATH:
The position of Deputy Clerk shall be required to have the same bond and oath
as the position of Village Clerk. (Ord. 2009-12, 2-17-2009)
1-8B-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-41, 5-18-2017)
1-8B-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Deputy Clerk shall have the power and duty to execute all documents
required by any law or ordinance to be executed by the Village Clerk and affix
the Seal of the Village whenever required. When signing any documents, the
Deputy Clerk shall sign the name of the Village Clerk followed by the word "by"
and the Deputy Clerk's own name and the words "Deputy Clerk".
   B.   The powers and duties of the Deputy Clerk shall only be exercised by
the Deputy Clerk in the absence of the Village Clerk, and only when direction
has been given by the Village Clerk to exercise such power or the Board of
Trustees has determined by resolution that the Village Clerk is temporarily or
permanently incapacitated to perform such function.
   C.   The Deputy Clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may
be required by the Mayor, statute, or ordinance, or by resolution of the Board
of Trustees. (Ord. 2009-12, 2-17-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-41, 5-18-2017)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Created; Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8C-2: Bond And Oath
1-8C-3: Qualifications
1-8C-4: Powers And Duties
1-8C-5: Deposit Of Funds
1-8C-6: Special Assessment Funds
1-8C-7: Access To Financial Records
1-8C-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the Office of Village Treasurer. The Village Treasurer
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. The appointment shall become effective commencing at the first
regularly scheduled meeting following the general Municipal election for Mayor
in the Village and shall be to a four (4) year term unless removed by the Mayor
prior to that date. Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees
as outlined in the annual budget. (Ord. 2009-14, 2-17-2009; amd. 2011 Code;
Ord. 2018-48, 8-16-2018)
1-8C-2: BOND AND OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of office, the Village Treasurer shall execute
a bond with sureties in such amount to be fixed by resolution and to be
approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the Treasurer's duties as set forth herein or by statute and conditioned upon
the indemnification of the Village for any loss by reason of any neglect of
duty or any requirement of Treasurer. The Village Treasurer shall take the oath
of office as prescribed by statute. (Ord. 2009-14, 2-17-2009)
1-8C-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The Village Treasurer must have the following qualifications:
      1.   Education, Experience and Skills:
         a.   Education and Training: Education and/or training and experience
in finance, auditing, accounting, or similar experience or education with
preference for a bachelor's degree or higher in accounting, finance, or similar
field;
         b.   Analytical skills; ability to solve finance problems, exercise
sound judgment and initiative; ability to work independently;
         c.   Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships
with other employees, agencies, public officials and the general public; and
         d.   Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing;
ability to make public presentations.
      2.   Mandatory Physical Requirements: The Village Treasurer must be able
to:
         a.   Endurance/Moving About: Periodic. Physically move from location
to location for brief periods.
         b.   Endurance/Overall strength: Light work. Exert force and/or lift
or carry objects weighing up to twenty (20) pounds periodically.
         c.   Sitting: Frequent. Be able to sit for extended periods.
         d.   Pushing/Pulling: Periodic. Push by exerting force on an object so
that it moves away from the force or worker and/or pull by exerting force on an
object so that it moves toward the force or worker.
         e.   Balancing: Periodic. Maintain body equilibrium to prevent falling
when walking, standing, crouching, or sitting.
         f.   Bending/Stooping: Periodic. Stoop by bending the body downward or
forward by flexing the spine at the waist, and/or bend by extending the spine
backward or from side to side.
         g.   Kneeling/Crouching: Periodic. Kneel by bending the legs at the
knees to come to rest on the knee or knees, and/or crouch by bending the body
downward and forward by bending the legs and spine.
         h.   Reaching: Constantly. Extend hands and arms in any direction.
         i.   Handling: Constantly. Seize, hold, grasp, turn or otherwise work
with the hand or hands.
         j.   Rotation: Frequently. Twist and turn the spine or a ball and
socket joint such as the shoulder or hip.
         k.   Talking: Constantly. Express or exchange ideas by means of the
spoken word to impart oral information to Village employees or officials or to
the public and convey detailed spoken instructions to other workers accurately,
loudly or quickly.
         l.   Hearing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sounds by the ear.
         m.   Seeing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sights by the eyes.
         n.   Reading: Ability to read various reports, financial documents,
memorandums and many other items.
         o.   Writing: Ability to write reports, financial statements, graphs
and charts, tax documents and other such documents necessary for the operation.
         p.   Miscellaneous: Such other reasonable physical and mental
abilities that may be required to carry out the position.
      3.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty-five (25) miles of the village
corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the board of
trustees. (Ord. 2017-42, 5-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2018-48, 8-16-2018; Ord. 2022-
68, 11-21-2022)
1-8C-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village treasurer shall have all the powers and perform all the duties now
or hereafter provided by the laws of the state of Illinois and the ordinances
of the village. The village treasurer shall, among other things, have the
following duties:
   A.   Essential Functions:
      1.   Monies: Receive all monies due or belonging to the village.
      2.   Warrants: Keep and pay all orders or warrants, including special
assessments, other bonds and interest coupons authorized by the board of
trustees and duly executed by the proper officers of the village. Each warrant
must have a description that includes the date, amount, number, the fund from
which it is paid, the date when paid, and the payee.
      3.   Books Of Accounting: Keep suitable books of account of the village
financial transactions, including from whom and on what account funds have been
received and a record of all monies paid out, including to whom and on what
account or fund and for what purpose the payment was made. The books shall be
balanced at least monthly and shall be at all times open to examination by the
mayor or board of trustees.
      4.   Accounts: Keep a separate account with each fund or appropriation
stating at the head of each account the amount appropriated and giving the
several debits and credits, as well as create, manage, and reconcile accounts.
      5.   General Ledger: Keep a general ledger by funds showing the
activities and transactions affecting each fund including the necessary
accruals for annual reports and other purposes.
      6.   Water And Sewer Accounts: Keep proper records and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
water and sewerage systems. The annual audit shall be made by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
water and sewerage systems.
      7.   Reports: File a monthly report under oath to the mayor and board of
trustees. The report shall include the total receipts and disbursements for
each account or fund from commencement of the fiscal year to date; the amount
budgeted and the amount appropriated; and the amount under expended or over
expended in each account or fund for the current fiscal year. The report shall
be filed in the office of the village clerk and a summary provided to the board
of trustees. All canceled vouchers and invoices covering all transactions set
forth in the report shall be retained by the village treasurer.
      8.   Annual Review: Provide, within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
end of the fiscal year, an annual review of a full and detailed account of all
receipts and disbursements during the preceding fiscal year to the board of
trustees for approval. The account shall show the state of the treasury at the
close of the fiscal year. The account shall also show the aggregate revenues
received during the fiscal year in each fund and will also show the aggregate
disbursements for each fund and each budget category within a fund. Such
account shall be provided to the village clerk for publication and to file for
public inspection in the office of the village clerk or as required by law.
      9.   Filing Of Accounts: All accounts shall be filed with the village
clerk, who shall cause to be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, a notice of the filing of such accounts. A copy of
such accounts, as filed with the village clerk and bearing the affidavit
thereof, shall be filed with the county collector before September 1 of each
year, or as soon thereafter as the same is available for filing. The procedure
for the preparation, filing and publication of the annual account shall be
deemed to be in compliance of the Illinois municipal code. Compliance with the
provisions of this subsection shall constitute full authority to the county
authorities to disburse all appropriate tax monies to the village.
      10.   Tax Levy and Tax Documents: Prepare and file the annual tax levy
and other such documents that may be necessary to levy or collect the taxes of
the Village or to implement desired taxes of the Village.
      11.   Multiple Positions; Office Staff Responsibilities: The Village
Treasurer may be a position that the person filling the position has other
responsibilities or fulfills another position in addition to being Village
Treasurer, such as being an office staff or office manager. This shall be
determined at the time of hire. If the treasurer has another position that is
compatible with the treasurer position, those responsibilities shall be
incorporated into this job description; however, it shall not convert that
person to a contracted or employee position and this person shall remain an
appointed official.
      12.   Budget Officer: Is generally intended to hold the positions of both
Treasurer and Budget Officer (see Section
1-8J-1 et seq. of the Village Code) unless a Budget Officer is otherwise duly
appointed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      13.   Tax-Increment Financing (TIF) and Business Development District
Analysis and Implementation: Working with the Village Administrator and any
consultants, assist in the financial analysis and accounting of the Village's
TIF and Business Development districts, if any. This includes, but is not
limited to, preparation of spreadsheets, financial analysis of redevelopment
agreements, projections of tax growth and distributions, and other such
financial matters that may assist and further these districts.
      14.   Investments: In consultation and collaboration with the Village
Administrator and relevant committees of the Village Board, invest assets of
the Village according to the Village's investment policy and securing proper
public securities of all uninsured or underinsured assets.
      15.   Bonds and Loans: Assist or act on behalf of staff and the village
board of trustees with the preparation and negotiation of loan documents as
well as assist with the satisfaction of any requirements of any bond ordinance
or loan agreement approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
      16.   Audits: Provide any relevant information to the village auditor and
implement any recommended changes to the general ledger related to such audit.
      17.   Transfer Funds: Transfer funds according to the village
appropriation ordinances.
      18.   Payroll Clerk: Assist with making timely payments of payroll and
benefit expenses and payroll taxes as previously authorized by the Village
Board of Trustees.
      19.   Payments: Make payments to vendors or other third parties after
approval by the Village Board of Trustees.
      20.   Grants: Assist in the application for, adherence to, and reporting
of various local, state, federal and private grants that may assist the Village
operations.
   B.   Non-Essential Functions:
      1.   General Filing: Assist with the filing and record keeping of the
Village.
      2.   Customer Service: Assist with customer service including, but not
limited to, answering phones, greeting and assisting persons that come to the
Village Hall, and other such items necessary to assist with the Village
operations.
      3.   Other Duties: Perform such other duties and functions as may be
required by a supervisor, ordinance of the village, or laws of the state of
Illinois. (Ord. 2009-14, 2-17-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 5-18-2017; Ord. 2018-48,
8-16-2018; Ord. 2022-68, 11-21-2022)
1-8C-5: DEPOSIT OF FUNDS:
The Village Treasurer shall review and approve the deposit of Village funds in
such depositories as may be selected from time to time as provided by law or by
Village ordinance. The Treasurer shall review and approve procedures for the
handling of Village funds to assure that Village monies are kept separate and
distinct from the monies of any individual and to assure that no individual may
make private or personal use of any Village monies. (Ord. 2009-14, 2-17-2009;
amd. Ord. 2017-42, 5-18-2017)
1-8C-6: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUNDS:
All monies received on any special assessment shall be placed in a special fund
to be applied only to the principal and interest payment of the improvement,
bond or vouchers for which they were received. The monies shall be used for no
other purpose unless to reimburse the Village for the monies expended for such
improvement. Payment on bonds or vouchers shall be made in accordance with the
laws of the State of Illinois. The Treasurer shall review the books and
accounts to assure that proper prorations in payments of principal and interest
can be made and ascertained and unpaid receivable balances calculated. (Ord.
2009-14, 2-17-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 5-18-2017)
1-8C-7: ACCESS TO FINANCIAL RECORDS:
Any agency of the State of Illinois or member of the Board of Trustees shall
have access to and be able to review and examine any financial books,
documents, papers and records of the Village except those precluded by law.
(Ord. 2009-14, 2-17-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 5-18-2017)
ARTICLE D. DEPUTY VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Created; Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8D-2: Bond And Oath
1-8D-3: Qualifications
1-8D-4: Powers And Duties
1-8D-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the Office of Deputy Village Treasurer. The Village
Treasurer, with the advice and consent of the Mayor and when authorized by
resolution of the Board of Trustees, shall appoint a Deputy Village Treasurer
or Deputy Village Treasurers whose term(s) shall not exceed the term of Office
of the Village Treasurer. The salary of the Deputy Village Treasurer(s) shall
be determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the annual budget. (Ord.
2009-60, 5-12-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
1-8D-2: BOND AND OATH:
The position of Deputy Village Treasurer shall be required to have the same
bond and oath as the position of Village Treasurer. (Ord. 2009-60, 5-12-2009)
1-8D-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits if full-time and fifty (50) miles of the Village corporate
limits if part-time unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the Board
of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-43, 5-18-2017)
1-8D-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   A Deputy Village Treasurer shall have all the powers and duties of the
Village Treasurer. When signing any documents, the Deputy Village Treasurer
shall sign the name of the Village Treasurer followed by the word "by" and the
Deputy Village Treasurer's own name and the words "Deputy Treasurer".
   B.   The powers and duties of the Deputy Treasurer shall only be exercised
by the Deputy Village Treasurer in the absence of the Village Treasurer, and
only when direction has been given by the Village Treasurer to exercise such
power or if the Board of Trustees has determined by resolution that the Village
Treasurer is temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform such function.
   C.   The Deputy Village Treasurer shall perform such other duties and
functions as may be required by the Mayor or statute, or by motion, resolution
or ordinance of the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2009-60, 5-12-2009; amd. Ord.
2017-43, 5-18-2017)
ARTICLE E. VILLAGE MARSHAL (CHIEF OF POLICE)
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Created; Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8E-2: Oath And Qualifications
1-8E-3: Powers And Duties
1-8E-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the Office of Village Marshal, which shall be known as
the Chief of the Police Department. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The
appointment of the Chief of Police shall become effective commencing at the
first regularly scheduled meeting following the general Municipal election for
Mayor in the Village and shall be effective through and including the date of
expiration of the term of the Mayor unless the Chief of Police is discharged by
the Mayor or by resolution of the Board of Trustees prior to that date. The
Chief of Police shall receive such salary as is determined by the Board of
Trustees as outlined in the annual budget. (Ord. 2009-15, 2-17-2009; amd. 2011
Code)
1-8E-2: OATH AND QUALIFICATIONS:
The Chief of Police shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute.
When appointing or approving the Chief of Police, the following qualifications
shall apply:
   A.   Education And Training: Training from an approved college or university
with specialization in law enforcement and meet all requirements prescribed by
law for the position of police officer in the State of Illinois.
   B.   Experience: Prior experience or any equivalent combination of training
is preferred, with administrative qualifications in respect to controlling and
supervising operations, personnel and the functions of a Municipal Police
Department. (Ord. 2009-15, 2-17-2009)
   C.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-46, 5-18-2017)
1-8E-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Chief of Police, subject to general supervision by the Mayor, shall be
responsible for the direction of all activities of the Village Police
Department and other duties set forth herein which shall include, but are not
limited to, the following:
   A.   Supervisor: Discharge all day to day supervisory duties relating to the
Village Police Department including, but not limited to, the scheduling and
supervision of police officers, establish and set forth the general policies of
the Village Police Department, and supervise the operation and maintenance of
equipment and property of the Village Police Department.
   B.   Implement Duties: Implement those lawful duties as are directed by the
Mayor or by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
   C.   Enforcement: Enforce and execute all the applicable laws and statutes
of the Village and the State of Illinois.
   D.   Monthly Report: Provide a monthly report to the Board of Trustees of
activities in the Village relating to the Village Police Department. (Ord.
2009-15, 2-17-2009)
ARTICLE F. VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-8F-1: Purpose; Office Established
1-8F-2: Appointment; Qualifications; Elected Officials Prohibited From Position
1-8F-3: Term Of Office
1-8F-4: Removal From Office
1-8F-5: Bond And Oath; Residency
1-8F-6: Employment Policies
1-8F-7: Powers And Duties
1-8F-1: PURPOSE; OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
The Board of Trustees hereby determines that the Office of Village
Administrator is necessary to carry into effect the powers conferred upon the
Village and hereby establishes said office as is provided by the Illinois
Municipal Code and the ordinances of the Village pertaining to said office.
(Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
1-8F-2: APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; ELECTED OFFICIALS PROHIBITED FROM
POSITION:
The Village Administrator shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. The appointment and approval of the Village
Administrator shall be based upon executive and administrative qualifications
and reference to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practices in the
administration and operation of municipal government in Illinois. No elected
official of the Village, including, but not limited to, the Mayor or any
Village Trustee, shall be appointed to the position of Village Administrator
during his term of office or for a period of one year after the expiration of
his respective term of office. (Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
1-8F-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
The term of the Village Administrator shall become effective commencing at the
first regularly scheduled meeting following the general Municipal election for
Mayor in the Village and shall be effective through and including the date of
expiration of the term of the Mayor unless discharged by the Mayor or by
resolution of the Board of Trustees prior to that date. (Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-
2017)
1-8F-4: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Village Administrator may be removed by the Mayor when it is the opinion of
the Mayor that such removal is in the best interest of the Village or as
provided under the Illinois Municipal Code. The Mayor shall report, in writing,
the reasons for the removal to the Board of Trustees at a meeting that shall be
held not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal from
said office. If the Mayor either fails to provide a written report of the
reasons for removal to the Board of Trustees or if the Board of Trustees, by a
two-thirds (2/3) majority vote, rejects the removal, the Village Administrator
shall be restored to office. A new bond and oath must be provided by the
Village Administrator after restoration. (Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
1-8F-5: BOND AND OATH; RESIDENCY:
Before entering upon the duties of office, the Village Administrator shall
execute a bond in such amount as fixed by resolution, with sureties approved by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and conditioned upon the faithful performance
of the duties of the Office of Village Administrator. In addition thereto, the
appointee shall execute any necessary oath or other affirmation required by
such office and shall, as a part of qualification for said office, and shall
reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village corporate limits unless
otherwise agreed by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-36, 5-18-2017)
1-8F-6: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES:
The position of Village Administrator, as provided herein, shall be subject to
the following employment policies, subject to amendment from time to time by
the Board of Trustees. The Village Administrator shall:
   A.   At the time of appointment, have all relevant details of employment
stated in the resolution of consent for appointment by the Board of Trustees
that are not specifically provided in this chapter, in the employee handbook,
or any policies and practices heretofore or hereinafter adopted by the Board of
Trustees;
   B.   Be paid a salary which shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as
outlined in the annual budget and shall not be increased or decreased within
the fiscal year;
   C.   During the term of office with the Village, accept no other employment
without the express permission of the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and dedicate
such time and effort as may be necessary to discharge all of the duties and
responsibilities of the position;
   D.   Devote not less than forty (40) hours per calendar week to such
employment and be available and accessible for receiving emergency calls after
normal business hours from the Mayor, members of the Board of Trustees, Chief
of Police and heads of other departments of the Village to provide assistance,
services, supervision and information regarding urgent circumstances which may
arise during such period;
   E.   Unless a vehicle is provided to the Village Administrator by the
Village, be reimbursed for personal vehicle use in the discharge of duties as
the Village Administrator at the maximum allowable rate as from time to time
determined and published by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States
Treasury for reimbursement of personal vehicle use in a business or profession
1 ;
   F.   Attend such continuing education, professional development and related
educational conferences, seminars and programs for certification as a Village
Administrator which are directly related to the discharge of the duties of
Village Administrator and be reimbursed by the Village at an amount not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per fiscal year or such amount provided
in the Village budget, whichever is less;
   G.   Receive disability, health, dental and life insurance benefits as
provided to all other full time employees of the Village; and
   H.   Be credited for such vacation, sick and personal time as is provided to
all other full time employees of the Village, and as such may be amended from
time to time by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-7-1C of this title.
1-8F-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Village Administrator shall perform all duties in the appropriate and
efficient administration of the government of the Village. Such duties, as
provided in this section, may be supplemented, modified or amended by amendment
of this article, or such other necessary enactments or adoptions by the Mayor
and the Board of Trustees from time to time. In connection therewith, the
Village Administrator shall:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Exercise administrative, managerial and supervisory control of all
Village departments, employees, functions and operations.
      2.   Under general direction of the Mayor, supervise operations of the
Village departments and officials, including, but not limited to, the Director
of Public Works (and the streets and alleys, water and sewer treatment and
collection system), the Chief of Police, and all other Municipal employees and
officers; and consult with the Village Clerk, Village Treasurer, Village
Engineer and Village Attorney.
      3.   Recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees such measures which are
in the best interest of the Village.
      4.   Implement and carry out the policy direction and procedures
established by the Mayor or by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
      5.   Assist the Mayor and advise the Board of Trustees in the appointment
and removal process of appointed officials or officers of the Village which, by
statute or ordinance, are to be appointed or removed by them.
      6.   Assist in the planning and supervision of the Village streets and
alleys and sewer and water functions.
      7.   Serve as the Village Zoning and/or Building Enforcement Officer, if
deemed qualified, with the duties and responsibilities of those officers or as
prescribed by ordinance 1 .
      8.   Attend meetings of the Board of Trustees, standing committees of the
Village, and other various Village boards and commissions, if needed, with
authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but without the right
to vote.
      9.   Prepare status reports to the Mayor and Board of Trustees of all
departments and other topics pertinent to the efficient operation of the
Village.
      10.   Prepare other written documents and reports at the direction of the
Mayor, the Board of Trustees and other boards and commissions; and provide
written evaluation and progress reports to the Board of Trustees no less
frequently than monthly on the operations of the various Village departments if
requested.
      11.   Carry out the duties and responsibilities of Budget Officer of the
Village 2  which includes, but is not limited to, approving and executing
documents for purchases that do not require prior Village Board action and
preparing bid specifications with the concurrence of appropriate Village
supervisory personnel unless a Budget Officer is otherwise appointed by the
Mayor and Village Board.
      12.   Assist in developing and maintaining intergovernmental
relationships with units of local government and other agencies, departments
and governmental units having relations with or jurisdiction over the Village.
      13.   Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the Village and services maintained by the
public utilities in the Village.
      14.   Keep current inventory of all real and personal property of the
Village and the location of such property, except property that is assigned to
some other officer or body for care and control.
      15.   Perform other duties as may be required by the Board of Trustees
consistent with law and ordinances of the Village.
   B.   Personnel Duties:
      1.   Manage all personnel functions and ensure compliance with all
applicable Federal and State employment and labor laws and regulations.
      2.   Recruit, screen and evaluate all candidates for employment with the
Village, and submit recommended candidates to the Mayor for appointment, with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The recruitment, screening and
evaluation process shall conform to the policies and procedures of the Village.
      3.   After consultation with the Mayor and committee Chairs, recommend
appointment or removal of any other Municipal supervisory employee to the Board
of Trustees for confirmation.
      4.   After consultation with the Municipal supervisory employee involved,
recommend appointment or removal of all subordinate Village employees, workers
and laborers to the Board of Trustees for confirmation.
      5.   Develop work schedule plans for the Village work force and supervise
implementation of those work schedule plans by the Village's supervisory staff.
      6.   Prepare all department supervisor employee performance reviews and
review all other performance evaluations for presentation to the Board of
Trustees for review.
      7.   Make recommendations to the Mayor and the Board of Trustees in
regard to wage/benefit modifications.
      8.   Administer Village personnel procedures and policies and recommend
changes of such to the Board of Trustees when deemed appropriate.
      9.   Subject to statutory limitations, maintain all active personnel
files, forms and records. (Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 11-5-1A of this Code for Zoning Administrator.
2 2. See article J of this chapter.
ARTICLE G. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8G-1: Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8G-2: Duties
1-8G-3: Qualifications
1-8G-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
The Village Attorney(s) may be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, or be a contracted employee position of the
Village. If appointed, the appointment shall become effective commencing at the
first regularly scheduled meeting following the general Municipal election for
Mayor in the Village and shall be effective through and including the date of
expiration of the term of Mayor unless said attorney(s) is discharged by the
Mayor or by resolution of the Board of Trustees prior to that date.
Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the
annual budget or as specified in any contract adopted by the Board for said
position. (Ord. 2010-23, 6-21-2010; amd. 2011 Code)
1-8G-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the Village Attorney(s) shall include, but are not limited to,
the discharge of any and all duties as provided by the Illinois Municipal Code
and the ordinances of the Village pertaining to said office, and the
performance of such other duties as are directed by the Mayor, committees and
the Board of Trustees, and any other duties which, in the appropriate discharge
of the professional judgment of the Village Attorney(s), are necessary and
legally appropriate for the proper conduct of the legal affairs of the Village.
(Ord. 2009-16, 2-17-2009)
1-8G-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specifically approved by the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-34, 5-18-2017)
ARTICLE H. VILLAGE ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-8H-1: Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8H-2: Qualifications
1-8H-3: Powers And Duties
1-8H-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
The Village Engineer(s) shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. The appointment shall become effective
commencing at the first regularly scheduled meeting following the general
Municipal election for Mayor in the Village, or as soon thereafter as may be
practicable, and shall be effective through and including the date of
expiration of the term of Mayor unless said engineer(s) is removed by the
Mayor, the position is discontinued by resolution of the Board of Trustees per
State Statute prior to that date, and/or a new engineer is appointed and
qualifies. Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as
outlined in the annual Appropriation or Salary Ordinance. (Ord. 2014-15, 6-5-
2014)
1-8H-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The Village Engineer, if appointment is for an in-house engineer, must
have the following qualifications:
      1.   Education And Experience:
         a.   A degree in civil engineering;
         b.   Valid civil engineering license or equivalent;
         c.   Preference of at least five (5) years of progressively
responsible experience in the field as civil engineer;
         d.   Preference of a surveyor's license;
         e.   Considerable experience in utilities, public works, land
development regulations and capital projects management;
         f.   Thorough knowledge of practices and principles of professional
civil engineering;
         g.   Thorough knowledge and ability to apply the laws and requirements
related to the engineering function with an Illinois municipality;
         h.   Demonstrated Municipal professional engineering experience at
progressively responsible levels, including project management and personnel
supervision;
         i.   Demonstrated ability to plan, schedule and complete multiple
projects and objectives;
         j.   Considerable analytical skills; ability to solve problems,
exercise sound judgment and initiative; ability to work independently;
         k.   Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationship
with other employees, developers, agencies, public officials and the general
public;
         l.   Ability to effectively meet with citizens and handle customer
complaints; and
         m.   Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing;
ability to make public presentations.
      2.   Mandatory Physical Requirements: The engineer must be able to:
         a.   Endurance/Moving About: Frequently physically move from location
to location for extended periods.
         b.   Endurance/Overall Strength: Intermediate work. Exert force and/or
lift or carry objects weighing up to forty (40) pounds periodically.
         c.   Walking: Frequently walk and move about on foot for extended
periods.
         d.   Sitting: Frequently be able to sit for extended periods.
         e.   Pushing/Pulling: Periodic. Push by exerting force on an object so
that it moves away from the force or worker (including, but not limited to,
slapping, striking, kicking, and treadle actions); and/or pull by exerting
force on an object so that it moves toward the force or worker (including
jerking).
         f.   Controls: Frequently. Use one or both arms and/or hands; use one
or either feet or legs to move controls on machinery or equipment.
         g.   Climbing: Periodic. Ascend or descend ladders, stairs,
scaffolding, ramps, poles, ropes, exit ditches or holes and the like using the
feet and legs and/or hands and arms.
         h.   Balancing: Periodic. Maintain body equilibrium to prevent falling
when walking, standing, crouching, or running on narrow, slippery or
erratically moving surfaces.
         i.   Bending/Stooping: Periodic. Stoop by bending the body downward or
forward by flexing the spine at the waist, and/or bend by extending the spine
backward or from side to side.
         j.   Kneeling/Crouching: Periodic. Kneel by bending the legs at the
knees to come to rest on the knee or knees, and/or crouch by bending the body
downward and forward by bending the legs and spine.
         k.   Crawling: Periodic. Move about on the hands and knees or hands
and feet.
         l.   Reaching: Constantly. Extend hands and arms in any direction.
         m.   Handling: Constantly. Seize, hold, grasp, turn or otherwise work
with the hand or hands.
         n.   Rotation: Frequently. Twist and turn the spine or a ball and
socket joint such as the shoulder or hip.
         o.   Talking: Constantly. Express or exchange ideas by means of the
spoken word to impart oral information to Village employees or officials or to
the public and convey detailed spoken instructions to other workers accurately,
loudly or quickly.
         p.   Hearing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sounds by the ear.
         q.   Seeing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sights by the eyes.
         r.   Reading: Read water meters, written reports, and instructions as
well as schematic and engineering plans.
         s.   Writing: Ability to accurately record water meter readings,
record information and summary of events.
         t.   Miscellaneous: Such other reasonable physical and mental
abilities that may be required to carry out the position. (Ord. 2014-15, 6-5-
2014)
      3.   Residency: Residency within the Village corporate limits is not
required; however, the engineer shall reside at all times within twenty five
(25) miles of the corporate limits of the Village unless otherwise agreed by
way of action by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-35, 5-18-2017)
1-8H-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The following are the general powers and duties of the Village
Engineer:
      1.   Plan, coordinate and process engineering reviews including, but not
limited to, proposed plats, site plans, water and wastewater systems, paving,
drainage, construction and landscape improvements;
      2.   Prepare engineering design plans and specifications for projects to
be completed by staff and/or contractors;
      3.   Oversee and insure conformance with designs, project requirements,
this Code, and established engineering practices for various projects completed
by staff or contractors;
      4.   Manage contracts for capital improvement projects; oversee
construction; coordinate and complete bid processes and documents;
      5.   Assist with obtaining grants, grant underwriting, and grant
administration and oversight;
      6.   Develop and revise standard design and construction specifications
for Village road, utility, drainage and irrigation systems;
      7.   Prepares and delivers reports related to assigned projects and
services;
      8.   Investigates complaints and requests for services; meets with
employees and the general public;
      9.   Coordinates activities with other departments; acts as a liaison
with other governmental agencies and developers;
      10.   Manage use of Village right-of-ways;
      11.   Attends meetings and conferences, including board and committee
meetings;
      12.   Any such other duties and responsibilities as provided by the
Illinois Municipal Code and the ordinances of the Village pertaining to said
office and/or that may be necessary and appropriate for the position or for the
proper conduct and operation of the affairs of the Village.
   B.   The following are additional general powers and duties, in addition to
powers and duties hereinbefore listed, for an in- house engineer:
      1.   Assist with, conduct and/or review departmental performance
evaluations in conjunction with the Director of Public Works or such other
appropriate department supervisor(s);
      2.   Prepare and/or assist with budget preparation and implementation and
work schedules, if necessary, for the Public Works Department;
      3.   Work with Village Code Compliance Officers and/or act as a Village
Code Compliance Officer when appointed to that position;
      4.   Maintain and promulgate standard operating procedures in accordance
with Village policies and procedures;
      5.   Provides general supervision and technical assistance in the Public
Works Department in conjunction with other department supervisors; and
      6.   Administer Village personnel procedures and policies and recommend
changes of such to the administration and Board of Trustees when deemed
appropriate. (Ord. 2014-15, 6-5-2014)
ARTICLE I. SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-8I-1: Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8I-2: Oath And Bond
1-8I-3: Qualifications
1-8I-4: Employment Policies
1-8I-5: Powers And Duties
1-8I-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
The Superintendent of Public Works shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The appointment shall become
effective commencing at the first regularly scheduled meeting following the
general Municipal election for Mayor or as soon thereafter as is practicable in
the Village and shall be effective through and including the date of expiration
of the term of Mayor unless said Superintendent is removed by the Mayor or by
resolution of the Board of Trustees per State Statute prior to that date.
Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the
annual Appropriation Ordinance. (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-2013)
1-8I-2: OATH AND BOND:
Due to the confidential nature of this office, the Superintendent of Public
Works shall, before entering upon the duties of office, execute a bond with
sureties in such amount to be fixed by resolution and approved by the Board of
Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the Superintendent of
Public Works' duties. The Superintendent of Public Works shall take the oath of
office prescribed by statute. (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-2013)
1-8I-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The Superintendent of Public Works must have the following qualifications:
   A.   Mandatory General Requirements: The Superintendent of Public Works
must:
      1.   Experience: Have prior experience or any equivalent combination of
training is preferred, with administrative qualifications in respect to
controlling and supervising operations, personnel, budgets and the functions of
a Municipal Public Works Department.
      2.   Licensing: Have, either prior to or at the time of appointment of
office, appropriate licensing for the operation of the water and sewerage
system of the Village.
      3.   Satisfactory Performance: Be able to perform each duty hereinafter
stated satisfactorily.
      4.   Communication Skills: Have good communication skills and a calm
demeanor in responding to citizen questions and complaints and in dealing with
the general public in everyday activities as well as employees, other
supervisors, and the Village administration and Board. (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-
2013)
      5.   Follow Directives: Follow the lawful directives issued by the Mayor,
Village Administrator, and other appropriate supervisors or officials of the
Village. (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
      6.   Work Within Guidelines: Have the ability to work within established
guidelines.
      7.   Perform Repetitious Tasks: Have the ability to perform repetitious
tasks.
      8.   Use Of Machinery: Have the ability to use and operate pick-up
trucks; tractors; forklifts; lawnmowers; weedeaters; chain saws; chippers;
blowers; various spray equipment; and miscellaneous power tools for turf
maintenance, carpentry, painting, plumbing, and cement finishing work.
   B.   Mandatory Physical Requirements: The Superintendent of Public Works
must be able to:
      1.   Endurance/Moving About: Frequently physically move from location to
location for extended periods.
      2.   Endurance/Overall Strength: Heavy work. Exert force and/or lift or
carry objects weighing up to fifty (50) pounds regularly.
      3.   Walking: Constantly walk and move about on foot for extended
periods.
      4.   Sitting: Frequently be able to sit for extended periods.
      5.   Lifting/Carrying: Periodic. Lift by manually raising or lowering an
object from one level to another (including upward pulling), and/or carry or
transport objects, usually holding items in the hands or arms or on the
shoulder.
      6.   Pushing/Pulling: Periodic. Push by exerting force on an object so
that it moves away from the force or worker (including, but not limited to,
slapping, striking, kicking, and treadle actions); and/or pull by exerting
force on an object so that it moves toward the force or worker (including
jerking).
      7.   Controls: Frequently. Use one or both arms and/or hands; use one or
either feet or legs to move controls on machinery or equipment.
      8.   Climbing: Periodic. Ascend or descend ladders, stairs, scaffolding,
ramps, poles, ropes, and the like using the feet and legs and/or hands and
arms.
      9.   Balancing: Periodic. Maintain body equilibrium to prevent falling
when walking, standing, crouching, or running on narrow, slippery or
erratically moving surfaces.
      10.   Bending/Stooping: Periodic. Stoop by bending the body downward or
forward by flexing the spine at the waist, and/or bend by extending the spine
backward or from side to side.
      11.   Kneeling/Crouching: Periodic. Kneel by bending the legs at the
knees to come to rest on the knee or knees, and/or crouch by bending the body
downward and forward by bending the legs and spine.
      12.   Crawling: Periodic. Move about on the hands and knees or hands and
feet.
      13.   Reaching: Constantly. Extend hands and arms in any direction.
      14.   Handling: Constantly. Seize, hold, grasp, turn or otherwise work
with the hand or hands.
      15.   Rotation: Frequently. Twist and turn the spine or a ball and socket
joint such as the shoulder or hip.
      16.   Talking: Constantly. Express or exchange ideas by means of the
spoken word to impart oral information to Village employees or officials or to
the public and convey detailed spoken instructions to other workers accurately,
loudly or quickly.
      17.   Hearing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sounds by the ear.
      18.   Seeing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sights by the eyes.
      19.   Reading: Read water meters, written reports, and instructions.
      20.   Writing: Ability to accurately record water meter readings, record
information and summary of events.
      21.   Miscellaneous: Such other reasonable physical and mental abilities
that may be required to carry out the position.
   C.   Residency: Shall reside within the Village corporate limits unless
otherwise specified by an agreement with the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2013-38,
9-19-2013)
1-8I-4: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES:
The position of Superintendent of Public Works shall be subject to the
following employment policies, subject to amendment from time to time by the
Board of Trustees. The Superintendent of Public Works shall:
   A.   At the time of appointment, have all relevant details of employment
stated in the resolution of consent for appointment by the Board of Trustees
that are not specifically provided for in this chapter, in the employee
handbook, or any policies and practices heretofore or hereinafter adopted by
the Board of Trustees;
   B.   During the term of office with the Village, accept no other employment
without the express permission of the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and shall
dedicate such time and effort as may be necessary to discharge all of the
duties and responsibilities of the position; (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-2013)
   C.   Devote not less than forty (40) hours per calendar week to such
employment and shall be available and accessible for receiving emergency calls
after normal business hours from the Mayor, Village Administrator or such other
appropriate supervisor, members of the Board of Trustees, Chief of Police and
heads of other departments of the Village to provide assistance, services,
supervision and information regarding urgent circumstances which may arise
during such period; (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
   D.   Attend such continuing education, professional development and related
educational conferences, seminars and programs for certification to the
discharge of the duties of the Superintendent of Public Works and shall be
reimbursed by the Village at an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per fiscal year or such amount provided for in the Village budget,
whichever is less;
   E.   Receive such disability, health, dental and life insurance benefits as
may be provided to all other full time employees of the Village; and
   F.   Be credited for such vacation, sick and personal time as is provided to
all other full time employees of the Village, and as such may be amended from
time to time by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-2013)
1-8I-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Superintendent of Public Works shall perform all duties necessary for the
appropriate and efficient operation of the public works of the Village,
including, but not limited to, the Village parks, streets, alleys, right-of-
ways, culverts, drainage, sewerage and water infrastructures. Such duties
provided for in this section may be supplemented, modified or amended by
amendment of this chapter, or such other necessary enactments or adoptions by
the Mayor and the Board of Trustees from time to time. In connection therewith,
the Superintendent of Public Works shall: (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-2013)
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Be responsible for the direct supervision, subject to the general
supervision of the Mayor and the Village Administrator or such other
appropriate supervisor, of all public works employees; (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-
2013; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
      2.   Oversee the activities and projects necessary to maintain the day-
to-day public works functions and operations;
      3.   Oversee that all duties of the public works employees are
appropriately performed and administered;
      4.   Act as the general safety advisor and safety enforcement official
for the Public Works Department and take such reasonable measures that all
necessary safety equipment is provided and utilized;
      5.   Recommend to the Mayor and Board of Trustees such measures deemed in
the best interest of the Village Public Works Departments and operations; (Ord.
2013-38, 9-19-2013)
      6.   Implement and carry out the direction and procedures established by
the Mayor, Village Administrator or such other similar supervisor, or by
ordinance or resolution of the Board of Trustees; (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-2013;
amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
      7.   Assist in the planning, supervision, and maintenance of the Village
streets and alleys, parks, drainage, sidewalks and sewer and water functions;
      8.   When requested, attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees,
standing committees of the Village, and other various Village boards and
commissions, with authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but
without right to vote;
      9.   Prepare a biweekly typed status report of the status of the Public
Works Departments and other topics pertinent to the efficient operation of the
Village Public Works to the Mayor and Board of Trustees and include in such
report the public works' activities over the past month, monthly vehicle
maintenance reports for each Public Works vehicle, and such other items that
may be requested by the Village administration or Board;
      10.   Keep current inventory of all real and personal property of the
Village Public Works Departments and provide such information upon request by
the Village administration or Board;
      11.   Adequately maintain all public works' vehicles and equipment and
keep appropriate records of such maintenance;
      12.   Prepare a recommended general budget and operating budget for the
Public Works Departments and provide such reports to the Budget Officer of the
Village, the Village administration, and the Village Board;
      13.   Administer and periodical review any formal budgets adopted by the
Village Board for the Public Works Department and provide recommendation to the
Village Board of any issues thereto related; and
      14.   Perform other duties as may be required by the Board of Trustees or
administration consistent with law and ordinances of the Village.
   B.   Personnel Duties:
      1.   Manage public works personnel functions and ensure compliance with
all applicable Federal and State employment and labor laws and regulations;
      2.   Recruit, screen and evaluate all candidates for employment with the
Village Public Works Departments;
      3.   Develop work schedule plans for the public works employees, and
supervise implementation of those work schedule plans;
      4.   Prepare all public works employee performance reviews for
presentation to the Board of Trustees for review and approval;
      5.   Create and administer such policies, subject to approval by the
Village administration and Board, as may be necessary and appropriate for the
safe operation of the Public Works Department and its employees; and
      6.   Administer Village personnel procedures and policies and recommend
changes of such to the Board of Trustees when appropriate. (Ord. 2013-38, 9-19-
2013)
ARTICLE J. BUDGET OFFICER
SECTION:
1-8J-1: Creation Of Office
1-8J-2: Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8J-3: Bond And Oath
1-8J-4: Qualifications
1-8J-5: Powers And Duties
1-8J-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the Budget Officer of the Village. The Village
Administrator or other designee of the Mayor is hereby designated as the Budget
Officer of the Village. (Ord. 2009-74, 5-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
1-8J-2: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
The Budget Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees. The appointment shall become effective commencing at
the first regularly scheduled meeting following the general Municipal election
for Mayor in the Village and shall be effective through and including the date
of expiration of the term of Mayor unless said Budget Officer is removed by the
Mayor or by resolution of the Board of Trustees, per State Statute, prior to
that date. Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as
outlined in the annual budget. (Ord. 2009-74, 5-18-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
1-8J-3: BOND AND OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of office, the Budget Officer shall execute a
bond with sureties in such amount to be fixed by resolution and to be approved
by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
Budget Officer's duties as set forth herein or by statute, and conditioned upon
the indemnification of the Village for any loss by reason of any neglect of
duty or any requirement of the Budget Officer. The Budget Officer shall take
the oath of office as prescribed by statute 1 . (Ord. 2009-74, 5-18-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
1-8J-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residency: The Budget Officer shall reside within twenty five (25)
miles of the Village corporate limits unless otherwise specifically approved by
the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-39, 5-18-2017)
1-8J-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Budget Officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   Permit, encourage and establish the use of efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting, and other fiscal management
procedures in all Village departments, commissions, and boards;
   B.   Compile an annual budget in accordance with section 8-2-9.3 of the
Illinois Municipal Code 1 ;
   C.   Examine all books and records of all Village departments, commissions
and boards which relate to monies received by the Village and Village
departments, commissions and boards and paid out by the Village and Village
departments, commissions, and boards, debts and accounts receivable, and
amounts owed by or to the Village and Village departments, commissions, and
boards;
   D.   Obtain such additional information from the Village and Village
departments, commissions and boards as may be useful to the Budget Officer for
purposes of compiling a Village budget; such information to be furnished by the
Village and Village departments, commissions, and boards in the form required
by the Budget Officer. Any department, commission or board which refuses to
make such information as is requested thereof available to the Budget Officer
shall not be permitted to make expenditures under any subsequent budget for the
Village until such Village department, commission or board shall comply in full
with the request of the Budget Officer;
   E.   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall ensure that no
expenditures are made by the Village or Village departments, commissions, or
boards except as authorized by the budget; and
   F.   Perform such other tasks or duties assigned to the Budget Officer by
the Mayor or Mayor's designee. (Ord. 2017-39, 5-18-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.3.
ARTICLE K. FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-8K-1: Created; Appointment
1-8K-2: Bond And Oath
1-8K-3: Duties
1-8K-4: FOIA Requests And Responses
1-8K-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the office of freedom of information act (FOIA)
officer. The FOIA officer(s) shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees, on the first regularly scheduled board
meeting in May following a general election 1 . (Ord. 2009-132, 12-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/3.5.
1-8K-2: BOND AND OATH:
Due to the confidential nature of this office, the FOIA officer shall, before
entering upon the duties of office, execute a bond with sureties in such amount
to be fixed by resolution and approved by the board of trustees, conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the FOIA officer's duties. FOIA officers shall
take the same oath of office prescribed by statute for the village clerk. (Ord.
2009-132, 12-7-2009)
1-8K-3: DUTIES:
The duties of the FOIA officer(s) shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days of being appointed, must undergo and
successfully complete an electronic training curriculum developed by the public
access counselor for FOIA officers.
   B.   Annually complete the electronic training curriculum thereinafter 1 .
   C.   When requested, attend the meetings of the board of trustees, standing
committees of the village, and other various village boards and commissions,
with authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but without the
right to vote.
   D.   Maintain a list of documents or categories of documents that will be
immediately disclosed upon request 2 .
   E.   Create and maintain a file for retention of the original FOIA request,
a copy of the response, and a record of all written communications with the
requester and copies thereof to be kept at the office of the village clerk.
   F.   Cause to be posted a prominent display at each public office of the
village, and make available to the public, a brief description of the village
which shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   A short summary of its purpose.
      2.   A block diagram giving its functional subdivisions.
      3.   The total amount of its operating budget.
      4.   The number and location of its offices.
      5.   The approximate number of full time and part time employees.
      6.   The identification and membership of any board, commission,
committee, or council which operates in an advisory capacity, or which
exercises control, or which the board of trustees is required to report 3 .
      7.   A brief description of methods of how the public may request
information and records, a directory of designated FOIA officer(s), the address
where requests are to be directed, and any applicable fees for FOIA requests 4
.
      8.   Post the display on the village website, if operational.
   G.   Perform other duties as may be required by the board of trustees
consistent with law and ordinances of the village. (Ord. 2009-132, 12-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 140/3.5(b).
2 1. 5 ILCS 140/3.5.
3 2. 5 ILCS 140/4(a).
4 3. 5 ILCS 140/4(b).
1-8K-4: FOIA REQUESTS AND RESPONSES:
   A.   FOIA requests shall, at a minimum, be:
      1.   Submitted on a form authorized by the village;
      2.   Submitted to the office of the village clerk; and
      3.   Signed by the person making the request.
   B.   Each response to an FOIA request shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
      1.   The date the village received the request.
      2.   Compute the day on which the time to respond falls and note that
date on the request.
      3.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of the request and all
documents submitted with it, until complied with or denied.
      4.   The basis or section that authorizes denial, if denied.
      5.   The names and titles or positions of each person responsible for the
denial.
      6.   The fees incurred for the request, if applicable.
      7.   If denied, informing the person of his right to appeal to the mayor
or the right to judicial review if the mayor assisted in the decision to deny
the request.
      8.   Any other item required pursuant to the Illinois freedom of
information act 1 .
   C.   FOIA officers may request clarification from the requesting party of
what information or items are being requested. (Ord. 2009-132, 12-7-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
ARTICLE L. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-8L-1: Appointment, Term And Compensation
1-8L-2: Qualifications
1-8L-3: Employment Policies
1-8L-4: Powers And Duties
1-8L-1: APPOINTMENT, TERM AND COMPENSATION:
The Director of Public Works shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees. The appointment shall become effective
commencing at the first regularly scheduled meeting following the general
Municipal election for Mayor in the Village, or as soon thereafter as
practicable, and shall be effective through and including the date of
expiration of the term of Mayor unless said Director is removed by the Mayor,
the position is discontinued by resolution of the Board of Trustees per State
Statute prior to that date, and/or a new Director is appointed and qualifies.
Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the
annual Appropriation or Salary Ordinance. (Ord. 2014-14, 6-5-2014)
1-8L-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   The Director of Public Works must have the following qualifications:
      1.   Education And Experience:
         a.   A higher education degree, specifically a civil engineering
degree, is preferred with an associate degree or trade degree relevant to the
position minimally being required;
         b.   Prior experience or any equivalent combination of training is
preferred, with administrative qualifications in respect to controlling and
supervising operations, personnel and the functions of a Municipal Public Works
Department;
         c.   Demonstrated ability to plan, schedule and complete multiple
projects and objectives;
         d.   Considerable analytical skills; ability to solve problems,
exercise sound judgment and initiative; ability to work independently;
         e.   Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationship
with other employees, developers, agencies, public officials and the general
public;
         f.   Ability to effectively meet with citizens and handle customer
complaints; and
         g.   Ability to communicate effectively both orally and in writing;
ability to make public presentations.
      2.   Licensing And Certifications: The Village operates a water treatment
plant and sewer treatment plant that requires licensing and certifications from
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. As such, the Village prefers the
Director of Public Works to either have or obtain as soon as eligible the
appropriate licensing and certifications necessary to operate these facilities.
      3.   Mandatory Physical Requirements: The Director of Public Works must
be able to:
         a.   Endurance/Moving About: Frequently physically move from location
to location for extended periods.
         b.   Endurance/Overall Strength: Intermediate work. Exert force and/or
lift or carry objects weighing up to forty (40) pounds periodically.
         c.   Walking: Frequently walk and move about on foot for extended
periods.
         d.   Sitting: Frequently be able to sit for extended periods.
         e.   Pushing/Pulling: Periodic. Push by exerting force on an object so
that it moves away from the force or worker (including, but not limited to,
slapping, striking, kicking, and treadle actions); and/or pull by exerting
force on an object so that it moves toward the force or worker (including
jerking).
         f.   Controls: Frequently. Use one or both arms and/or hands; use one
or either feet or legs to move controls on machinery or equipment.
         g.   Climbing: Periodic. Ascend or descend ladders, stairs,
scaffolding, ramps, poles, ropes, exit ditches or holes and the like using the
feet and legs and/or hands and arms.
         h.   Balancing: Periodic. Maintain body equilibrium to prevent falling
when walking, standing, crouching, or running on narrow, slippery or
erratically moving surfaces.
         i.   Bending/Stooping: Periodic. Stoop by bending the body downward or
forward by flexing the spine at the waist, and/or bend by extending the spine
backward or from side to side.
         j.   Kneeling/Crouching: Periodic. Kneel by bending the legs at the
knees to come to rest on the knee or knees, and/or crouch by bending the body
downward and forward by bending the legs and spine.
         k.   Crawling: Periodic. Move about on the hands and knees or hands
and feet.
         l.   Reaching: Constantly. Extend hands and arms in any direction.
         m.   Handling: Constantly. Seize, hold, grasp, turn or otherwise work
with the hand or hands.
         n.   Rotation: Frequently. Twist and turn the spine or a ball and
socket joint such as the shoulder or hip.
         o.   Talking: Constantly. Express or exchange ideas by means of the
spoken word to impart oral information to Village employees or officials or to
the public and convey detailed spoken instructions to other workers accurately,
loudly or quickly.
         p.   Hearing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sounds by the ear.
         q.   Seeing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sights by the eyes.
         r.   Reading: Read water meters, written reports, and instructions.
         s.   Writing: Ability to accurately record water meter readings,
record information and summary of events.
         t.   Miscellaneous: Such other reasonable physical and mental
abilities that may be required to carry out the position. (Ord. 2014-14, 6-5-
2014)
      4.   Residency: Residency within the Village corporate limits is not
required; however, the Director of Public Works shall reside at all times
within twenty five (25) miles of the corporate limits of the Village unless
otherwise agreed by way of action by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-
32, 5-18-2017)
1-8L-3: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES:
   A.   The position of Director of Public Works shall be subject to the
following employment policies, subject to amendment from time to time by the
Board of Trustees. The Director of Public Works shall:
      1.   At the time of appointment, have all relevant details of employment
stated in the resolution of consent for appointment by the Board of Trustees
that are not specifically provided for in this chapter, in the employee
handbook, or any policies and practices heretofore or hereinafter adopted by
the Board of Trustees; however, such relevant details shall not be construed
nor is it intended to establish an employment contract;
      2.   During the term of office with the Village, accept no other
employment without the express permission of the Mayor and Board of Trustees,
and shall dedicate such time and effort as may be necessary to discharge all of
the duties and responsibilities of the position; and
      3.   Devote not less than forty (40) hours per calendar week to such
employment and shall be available and accessible for receiving emergency calls
after normal business hours from the Mayor, members of the Board of Trustees,
Chief of Police and heads of other departments of the Village to provide
assistance, services, supervision and information regarding urgent
circumstances which may arise during such period. (Ord. 2014-14, 6-5-2014)
1-8L-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Director of Public Works, working with the Village Administrator,
Village Engineer, and heads of Public Works, shall perform all duties necessary
for the appropriate and efficient operation of the Public Works of the Village,
including, but not limited to the streets, alleys, sidewalks, right-of-ways,
parks, culverts, storm sewer, sewerage and water infrastructures. Such duties
provided for in this section may be supplemented, modified or amended by
amendment of this chapter, or such other necessary enactments or adoptions by
the Board of Trustees from time to time. In connection therewith, the Director
of Public Works shall: (Ord. 2014-14, 6-5-2014; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
      1.   General Duties:
         a.   Have charge over the maintenance and general operation of: the
Village's water and sanitary sewer conveyance systems; all public parks; all
streets and sidewalks and the drainage thereof; and all Public Works vehicles,
equipment and buildings with the exception of those items specifically placed
under another department or department supervisor; (Ord. 2014-14, 6-5-2014)
         b.   Be responsible for the direct supervision, subject to the general
supervision of the Mayor and Mayor designee and the Village Administrator, of
the heads or supervisors of Public Works and Public Works employees; (Ord.
2014-14, 6-5-2014; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
         c.   Oversee the general administrative activities and projects
necessary to maintain the Public Works functions and operations; (Ord. 2014-14,
6-5-2014)
         d.   Recommend to the Mayor, the Village Administrator, and Board of
Trustees such measures deemed in the best interest of the Village Public Works
Departments and operations; (Ord. 2014-14, 6-5-2014; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-
2017)
         e.   Implement and carry out the direction and procedures established
by the Mayor or by ordinance or resolution of the Board of Trustees;
         f.   Assist in the planning and supervision of the Village streets and
alleys, sewer and water functions;
         g.   When requested, attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees,
standing committees of the Village, and other various Village boards and
commissions, with authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but
without right to vote;
         h.   Prepare a biweekly typed status report of the status of the
Public Works Departments and other topics pertinent to the efficient operation
of the Village Public Works to the Mayor and Board of Trustees;
         i.   Keep current inventory of all real and personal property of the
Village Public Works Departments;
         j.   Maintain and provide accurate information and reports to the
Budget Officers and supervisors of the Public Works Departments; and
         k.   Perform other duties as may be required by the Board of Trustees
or administration consistent with law and ordinances of the Village.
      2.   Personnel Duties:
         a.   Manage Public Works personnel functions and ensure compliance
with all applicable Federal and State employment and labor laws and
regulations;
         b.   Recruit, screen and evaluate all candidates for employment with
the Village Public Works Departments;
         c.   Prepare performance reviews for heads or supervisors of the
Public Works for presentation to administration and the Board of Trustees for
review and approval;
         d.   Administer Village personnel procedures and policies and
recommend changes of such to the Board of Trustees when deemed appropriate; and
         e.   Such other duties and responsibilities as may be necessary and
appropriate for the proper operation and personnel items of the Public Works
Department that may arise.
(Ord. 2014-14, 6-5-2014)
ARTICLE M. ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION :
1-8M-1: Creation And Compensation
1-8M-2: Oath And Bond
1-8M-3: Powers And Duties
1-8M-4: Inspections ; Right Of Entry
1-8M-5: Stop Work Orders
1-8M-6: Appeals
1-8M-1: CREATION AND COMPENSATION:
   There is hereby created the position of Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees. Compensation, if any, shall be determined by the Board
of Trustees as outlined in the annual budget or wage and salary ordinance. This
position is intended to be a part of the duties and responsibilities of the
Building Inspector and grounds maintenance position as well as potentially the
code compliance officer position.
(Ord. 2024-01, 1-18-2024)
1-8M-2: OATH AND BOND:
   Due to the exposure of this position to confidential matters of the village,
a Zoning Administrator, before performing the duties of the position, shall
execute a bond with sureties in such amount to be determined by the village
Board of Trustees conditioned upon the faithful performance of the building
inspector's duties and responsibilities. If a Zoning Administrator is also a
building inspector and grounds maintenance employee or code compliance officer,
a new bond shall not be required. A Zoning Administrator shall take the oath of
office prescribed by statute1.
(Ord. 2024-01, 1-18-2024)
1   See 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
1-8M-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   The Zoning Administrator shall administer and enforce the Village Zoning
Code as amended from time to time, and as in effect in accordance with the
powers and duties therein set forth, and in furtherance of such authority,
shall have the duties and responsibilities as hereinafter set forth, which
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and land to determine
compliance with the Zoning Code and notify, in writing, the person responsible
for any violation found, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it;
      2.   Order the discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or
structures; removal of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions,
alterations or structural changes, discontinuance of any illegal work being
done; or shall take any other action authorized by statute or by the Zoning
Code to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of its provisions;
      3.   Prepare, or coordinate the preparation of, and cause to be published
on or before March 31 of each year, a map showing the existing zoning uses,
divisions, restrictions, regulations and classifications in effect on the
preceding December 31;
      4.   Maintain permanent and current records of the Zoning Code including,
but not limited to, all maps, amendments, special use permits, planned building
developments, variances, appeals and applications therefor;
      5.   Provide and maintain a source of public information relative to
matters ari sing out of the Zoning Code;
      6.   Receive, file and forward to the Planning Commission all
applications for amendments, use variances and special use permits, and other
matters upon which the Plan Commission is required to act under the Zoning
Code;
      7.   Receive, file and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all
applications for variances, appeals and other matters upon which the Board is
required to act under the Zoning Code along with a review letter of each zoning
application to the Zoning Board of Appeals, applying the applicant's zoning
application to each applicable standard of review and making recommendations
thereto related;
      8.   Periodically review the Zoning Code for currentness and
appropriateness, and prepare written recommendations for any appropriate
changes if deemed necessary and appropriate;
      9.   Keep the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees advised of zoning
activities by written report from time to time, including statements of permits
and certificates issued and orders promulgated;
      10.   The Zoning Administrator may request and shall receive so far as
may be necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and
cooperation of the Chief of Police in enforcing orders, of the Village Attorney
in prosecuting violators, and of other village officials, officers and
employees.
(Ord. 2024-01, 1-18-2024)
1-8M-4: INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   A Zoning Administrator, in the discharge of his or her official duties
and upon proper certification, shall have the authority to enter any building,
structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
   B.   A Zoning Administrator, when performing and completing inspections in
his or her formal capacity, shall not be responsible for determining or
advising persons of violations of all laws relating to the condition,
construction, repair, alteration, addition or maintenance of buildings and
structures. Failure of a Zoning Administrator to strictly enforce any law
relating to the condition, construction, repair, alteration, addition or
maintenance of buildings and structures, or zoning adherence to the Zoning Code
and laws, shall not relieve any person or corporation from adhering to those
laws nor from being responsible for any damage, repair or reconstruction that
may be required as a result of the failure to comply with any laws relating to
the condition, construction, repair, alteration, addition or maintenance of
buildings and structures, or compliance with the Zoning Code or zoning laws of
the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2024-01, 1-18-2024)
1-8M-5: STOP WORK ORDERS:
   A Zoning Administrator shall have the power to order work stopped on the
construction, alteration, or repair of any building, structure or premises when
such work is being done in violation of the Zoning Code. Work shall not be
resumed after the issuance of such a stop order except upon written permission
of a Zoning Administrator; provided, that if the stop order is issued verbally,
it shall be followed by a written stop order within a reasonable time of the
verbal order. Such written stop order may be served by a Zoning Administrator,
any other authorized employee or official, or by any poli ce officer of the
Village.
(Ord. 2024-01, 1-18-2024)
1-8M-6: APPEALS:
   Appeals for administrative orders, requirements, decisions, or
determinations made by a Zoning Administrator shall be made to the Zoning Board
of Appeals as set forth in Section
11-5-7 of the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2024-01, 1-18-2024)
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL
ARTICLE A. OFFICE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Creation And Compensation
1-9A-2: Oath And Bond
1-9A-3: Qualifications
1-9A-4: Duties
1-9A-1: CREATION AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the Office of Village Office Manager. The Office
Manager shall be appointed by ordinance by the Board of Trustees. Compensation
shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the annual
Appropriation or Salary Ordinance. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-22-2015)
1-9A-2: OATH AND BOND:
Due to the confidential nature of this office, the Office Manager shall, before
entering upon the duties of office, execute a bond with sureties in such amount
to be fixed by resolution and approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned
upon the faithful performance of the Office Manager's duties. The Office
Manager shall take the same oath of office prescribed by statute for Village
Treasurer. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-22-2015)
1-9A-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
The Office Manager should have the following qualifications:
   A.   Supervisor/Management Training: A background or prior experience in
supervising or management, preferable in a business office setting, including
supervision of personnel.
   B.   Accounting/Finance: A background or prior experience in finance or
accounting is preferred.
   C.   Human Resource: A background in human resource laws, requirements and
practice is also preferred. (Ord. 2015-04, 1-22-2015)
   D.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specifically approved by the Village Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-38, 5-18-2017)
1-9A-4: DUTIES:
The duties of the Office Manager shall include, but are not limited to:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Oversee, subject to the general direction proscribed by the Mayor,
executive assistant to the Mayor or other such similar supervisor, and the
Board of Trustees or a designee of the Board of Trustees, the day-to-day
operations and functions of the designated government building of the Village;
      2.   Administer and coordinate the billing for the water, sewer, and
other such utility accounts of the Village;
      3.   Maintain and provide accurate information and reports to the
supervisors of the Public Works Departments, Chief of Police, Budget Officer,
Treasurer, Village administration and Board related to the general affairs,
finance, and office operations of the Village;
      4.   Oversee the filing, payroll, finance data entry and reporting, Board
and other meeting preparation, event activities coordination and preparation,
and general day-to- day operations of the Village;
      5.   Be, oversee and coordinate the human resource obligations and needs
of the Village;
      6.   When requested, attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees,
standing committees of the Village, and other various Village boards and
commissions, with authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but
without the right to vote;
      7.   Prepare a biweekly typed status report of the status of the office
of the Village and other topics pertinent to the efficient operation of the
office of the Village to the Board of Trustees;
      8.   Perform other such duties that are appropriate for the proper
conduct and operation of the affairs of the Village; and
      9.   Perform other such duties as may be required by the Board of
Trustees consistent with law and ordinances of the Village.
   B.   Personnel Duties:
      1.   Shall supervise and oversee that the office staff adhere to and
carry out the lawful policies and directives issued by the Village
administration and/or Board;
      2.   Shall take appropriate measures to assure the appropriate function
of the office and office staff of the Village;
      3.   Recruit, screen and evaluate all candidates for employment with the
Village office personnel;
      4.   Develop work schedule plans for the Village office employees and
supervise implementation of those work schedule plans;
      5.   Prepare all Village office employee performance reviews for
presentation to the Board of Trustees for review and approval; and
      6.   Administer Village personnel procedures and policies and recommend
changes of such to the Board of Trustees when deemed appropriate. (Ord. 2015-
04, 1-22-2015)
ARTICLE B. CUSTODIAN OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Created; Compensation
1-9B-2: Bond And Oath
1-9B-3: Position Defined
1-9B-4: Qualifications
1-9B-5: Duties
1-9B-1: CREATED; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the Office of Village Custodian of Buildings and
Grounds. The Custodian of Buildings and Grounds shall be approved by the Mayor
and the Board of Trustees. Compensation shall be determined by the Board of
Trustees as outlined in the annual budget. (Ord. 2009-82, 6-15-2009; amd. 2011
Code)
1-9B-2: BOND AND OATH:
Due to the exposure of this office to confidential matters of the Village, the
Custodian of Buildings and Grounds, before performing the duties of office,
shall execute a bond with sureties in such amount to be fixed by resolution and
approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
the custodian's duties and responsibilities. The Custodian of Buildings and
Grounds shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute 1 . (Ord. 2009-82,
6-15-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
1-9B-3: POSITION DEFINED:
The Custodian of Buildings and Grounds shall be either fulfilled by part time
employees, a three-quarter time employee, or a full time employee who is
scheduled to work in compliance with the "Village Employee Personnel Policy and
Handbook". (Ord. 2012-11, 3-15-2012)
1-9B-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Skills, Licenses, And Abilities: The Custodian of Buildings and Grounds
shall possess the following skills, licenses, and abilities:
      1.   A valid Class B Illinois commercial driver's license.
      2.   Any required Illinois pesticide spraying licenses needed by the
Village.
      3.   The ability to operate and maintain a variety of equipment and
vehicles, including, but not limited to, pickups, utility terrain vehicles,
boom trucks and backhoes.
      4.   Possess basic math skills with the ability to provide accurate
estimates of materials and supplies required for building maintenance projects
and maintain records related thereto.
   B.   Knowledge: The Custodian of Buildings and Grounds shall have knowledge
of the following:
      1.   Standard tools, cleaning methods, practices and materials involved
in the remodeling, maintenance and repair of buildings, facilities, parks and
playgrounds; and
      2.   Hazards and safety precautions of the work involved in buildings or
grounds maintenance.
   C.   Abilities: The Custodian of Buildings and Grounds shall have the
following abilities:
      1.   Work well without close supervision and meet the requests of various
supervisors;
      2.   Communicate effectively with other employees using courtesy and good
judgment;
      3.   Complete job tasks in a prescribed period of time or ask for help
when the situation demands;
      4.   Safely use/operate tools and machinery, climb ladders, lift
equipment and/or supplies and materials; and
      5.   Respond to calls after scheduled work hours and/or on weekends, if
needed.
   D.   Physical Capabilities: The Custodian of Buildings and Grounds shall
have the following physical capabilities:
      1.   Safely perform necessary manual labor.
      2.   Perform heavy lifting and carrying of objects weighing at least
sixty (60) pounds.
      3.   Perform occasional lifting, pushing and pulling of objects weighing
up to one hundred (100) pounds.
      4.   The ability to work in hot or cold weather, above ground level on
roofs or attics, and belowground in crawl spaces, or working in confined
spaces. (Ord. 2009-82, 6-15-2009)
   E.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specifically approved by the Village Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-33, 5-18-2017)
1-9B-5: DUTIES:
The duties of the Custodian of Buildings and Grounds shall include, but are not
limited to:
   A.   Under the general supervision of the Mayor or designee, perform work
involving the cleaning, repair and maintenance of Village buildings or
facilities;
   B.   Perform maintenance on the grounds, sidewalks, and parks; oversee,
subject to the general direction proscribed by the Mayor and Board of Trustees
or a designee of the Board of Trustees, the day to day operations and functions
of the designated government building of the Village;
   C.   When requested, attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees, standing
committees of the Village, and other various Village boards and commissions,
with authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but without the
right to vote;
   D.   Perform and/or assist in carpentry, painting, plumbing, electrical,
concrete and other similar tasks relating to the repair and maintenance of
Village owned buildings and facilities;
   E.   Maintain inventories and complete records of all work performed;
   F.   Maintain and provide accurate information and reports of inventory to
the Budget Officer and supervisors of the various Village departments;
   G.   Be able to use/operate tools and machinery that are commonly used in
the performance of building and grounds maintenance;
   H.   Maintain, move or assemble furniture, computer equipment and wiring;
   I.   Perform preventative maintenance for plumbing, heating, ventilation and
air conditioning equipment including replacing belts and changing filters;
   J.   Perform other such duties that are appropriate for the proper conduct
and operation of the affairs of the Village; and
   K.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor or designee
consistent with law and ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 2009-82, 6-15-2009)
ARTICLE C. PROBATIONARY POLICE OFFICER
SECTION:
1-9C-1: Created
1-9C-2: Employment And Tenure
1-9C-3: Compensation
1-9C-4: Village Police Officer
1-9C-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created the position of probationary police officer. (Ord.
2007-06, 3-5-2007)
1-9C-2: EMPLOYMENT AND TENURE:
The village may hire individuals and employ them as probationary police
officers. The tenure of a probationary police officer shall be for a period of
six (6) months. (Ord. 2007-06, 3-5-2007)
1-9C-3: COMPENSATION:
The rate of pay for a probationary police officer shall be thirteen dollars
($13.00) per hour. (Ord. 2007-06, 3-5-2007)
1-9C-4: VILLAGE POLICE OFFICER:
In all other aspects, the position of probationary police officer shall be the
same as a village police officer. (Ord. 2007-06, 3-5-2007)
ARTICLE D. CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER
SECTION:
1-9D-1: Created; Compensation
1-9D-2: Bond And Oath
1-9D-3: Position Defined
1-9D-4: Qualifications
1-9D-5: Duties
1-9D-6: Inspections; Right Of Entry
1-9D-7: Stop Work Orders
1-9D-1: CREATED; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the Office of Code Compliance Officer. The Code
Compliance Officer shall be approved by the Mayor and the Board of Trustees.
Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the
annual budget. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-1-2010; amd. 2011 Code)
1-9D-2: BOND AND OATH:
Due to the exposure of this office to confidential matters of the Village, the
Code Compliance Officer, before performing the duties of office, shall execute
a bond with sureties in such amount to be fixed by resolution and approved by
the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the Code
Compliance Officer's duties and responsibilities. The Code Compliance Officer
shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute 1 . (Ord. 2010-01, 2-1-
2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
1-9D-3: POSITION DEFINED:
The Code Compliance Officer may be either an employee or independent contractor
with the Village, which shall be set forth at the time of approval. (Ord. 2010-
01, 2-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2020-05, 2-20-2020)
1-9D-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
The Code Compliance Officer must meet the following qualifications:
   A.   Skills, Licenses, And Abilities: Possess:
      1.   A license in either engineering or architecture; or
      2.   A certificate recognized by the State of Illinois and the Village
for building and home inspection.
   B.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2017-45, 5-18-2017; Ord. 2020-05,
2-20-2020)
1-9D-5: DUTIES:
The duties of the Code Compliance Officer shall include, but are not limited
to, the following:
   A.   Enforce, by all appropriate means, all laws and ordinances of the
Village relating to the condition, construction, repair, alteration, addition
or maintenance of buildings and structures, including the Building and Housing
Codes (title 10, chapter 1 of this Code) and the Zoning Ordinance (title 11 of
this Code);
   B.   Review applications for building and occupancy permits pursuant to
title 10 of this Code;
   C.   Coordinate and conduct inspections of properties for which a building
or occupancy permit is requested;
   D.   Coordinate and cooperate with the Randolph Township Fire District Life
Safety Code Compliance Officer pursuant to title 10 of this Code;
   E.   When requested, attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees, standing
committees of the Village, and other various Village boards and commissions,
with authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but without the
right to vote;
   F.   Perform other such duties that are appropriate for the proper conduct
and operation of the affairs of the Village related to the position; and
   G.   Be the designated Zoning Administrating Official if the position of
Zoning Administrating Official is not otherwise filled. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-1-
2010; amd. Ord. 2020-05, 2-20-2020)
1-9D-6: INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   The Code Compliance Officer, in the discharge of his official duties
and upon proper certification, shall have the authority to enter any building,
structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
   B.   The Code Compliance Officer, when performing and completing inspections
in his formal capacity, shall not be responsible for determining or advising
persons of violations of all laws relating to the condition, construction,
repair, alteration, addition or maintenance of buildings and structures.
Failure of the Code Compliance Officer to strictly enforce any law relating to
the condition, construction, repair, alteration, addition or maintenance of
buildings and structures shall not relieve any person or corporation from
adhering to those laws nor from being responsible for any damage, repair or
reconstruction that may be required as a result of the failure to comply with
any laws relating to the condition, construction, repair, alteration, addition
or maintenance of buildings and structures. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-1-2010)
1-9D-7: STOP WORK ORDERS:
The Code Compliance Officer shall have the power to order work stopped on the
construction, alteration, or repair of any building, structure or premises when
such work is being done in violation of any ordinance. Work shall not be
resumed after the issuance of such a stop order except upon written permission
of the Code Compliance Officer; provided, that if the stop order is issued
verbally, it shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour of the
verbal order. Such written stop order may be served by the Code Compliance
Officer or any police officer of the Village. (Ord. 2010-01, 2-1-2010)
ARTICLE E. POLICE DEPARTMENT AND OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-9E-1: Creation Of Police Department
1-9E-2: Oath And Bond
1-9E-3: General Qualifications
1-9E-4: General Duties
1-9E-5: Residency
1-9E-6: Compensation
1-9E-7: Chief Of Police
1-9E-7.5: Deputy Marshal (Deputy Chief Of Police)
1-9E-8: Police Sergeant
1-9E-9: Police Corporal
1-9E-10: Full-Time Police Officers
1-9E-11: Part-Time Police Officers
1-9E-12: General Requirements
1-9E-1: CREATION OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created the Heyworth Police Department, an executive department
of the Village of Heyworth. This department shall consist of those police
officers as may be hereinafter provided for and that may be established by
action of the Mayor and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-20-2014)
1-9E-2: OATH AND BOND:
Due to the exposure of this office to confidential matters of the Village, all
police officers, before entering into and performing the duties of the
position, shall execute a bond with sureties in such amount to be fixed by
resolution and approved by the Board of Trustees conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties and responsibilities of that position. Police
officers shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute 1 . (Ord. 2014-28,
11-20-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
1-9E-3: GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Qualifications: All police officers shall have, at a minimum,
the following qualifications to be eligible to be a police officer of the
Village:
      1.   Be a citizen of the United States;
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age;
      3.   Be a high school graduate or the equivalent;
      4.   Possess a valid Illinois driver's license;
      5.   Possess a current Illinois firearms owner identification card
(FOID);
      6.   Have no felony criminal record; and if there is a misdemeanor
criminal record, a copy of the record should be submitted with the written
application and an explanation if required by the Chief of Police to explain
all circumstances of record;
      7.   Submit fingerprints for examination by Illinois State Police Bureau
of Identification and Federal Bureau of Investigation;
      8.   May be required to submit to a physical examination and be found
drug free and in good general health;
      9.   Be proficient in typical police weaponry and meet department
firearms qualification requirements;
      10.   Pass a written exam if the Village Board of Trustees, Chief of
Police, or Mayor or designee elects to administer a standard entry level law
enforcement test;
      11.   Submit to an oral interview, if deemed appropriate, before the
Mayor and Board of Trustees or its designees;
      12.   Be qualified to enter and successfully complete any training
mandated by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board, have
sufficient prior experience and training to qualify for a waiver from the
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board, or have sufficient prior
experience and training, which together with some additional experience and
training would qualify for a waiver from said board and this to be determined
by the Chief of Police; and
      13.   Submit a written application and/or resume to the Chief of Police.
   B.   At-Will Employees: All police officers, except the Chief of Police, are
considered as at-will employees of the Village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-
20-2014)
1-9E-4: GENERAL DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all ordinances of the Village, of all statutes effective and
applicable to the Village, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the
law and to arrest violators thereof. Every member of the Police Department is
hereby declared to be a conservator of the peace. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-20-2014)
1-9E-5: RESIDENCY:
Anything in this Code to the contrary notwithstanding, no member of the Police
Department shall be required to be a resident of the Village but all full-time
police officers at all times while employed by the Village and all applicants
for a position as a police officer shall reside within twenty five (25) miles
of the corporate limits of the Village and all part-time officers shall reside
within fifty (50) miles of the corporate limits of the Village unless otherwise
agreed by way of action by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-20-
2014)
1-9E-6: COMPENSATION:
Compensation for all police officers shall be determined by the Board of
Trustees as outlined in the annual Budget and/or Salary Ordinance. (Ord. 2014-
28, 11-20-2014)
1-9E-7: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The position of Chief of Police is established and defined pursuant to chapter
8, article E of this title. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-20-2014)
1-9E-7.5: DEPUTY MARSHAL (DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE):
   A.   Appointment, Term And Compensation: The Village Deputy Marshal (or
Deputy Chief of Police) shall be appointed by nomination of the Village Marshal
(Chief of Police) and approved with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. The appointment of Deputy Chief of Police shall not qualify the
position or appointee as an appointed official pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3.1-30-5. The Deputy Chief of Police shall serve at the discretion
of the Chief of Police and may be removed by the Chief of Police by appointment
of a new Deputy Chief or by cause. If the Deputy Chief of Police is removed,
that employee shall revert to the previously held position of that employee
prior to appointment unless the employee is terminated pursuant to Village
policies and procedures. The appointment shall be effective through and
including the date of expiration of the term of Chief of Police unless removal
occurs as hereinbefore set forth. Compensation shall be determined by the Board
of Trustees as outlined in the annual appropriation or salary ordinance.
   B.   Qualifications: The Village Deputy Chief of Police must have the
following qualifications:
      1.   A minimum of five (5) years continuous full-time law enforcement
experience is required, not necessarily with the Heyworth Police Department;
and
      2.   All other requirements for police officers of the Village.
      3.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the Board of
Trustees.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The following are the general powers and authority of the Deputy
Chief:
         a.   Receive direction from and be under the direct authority of the
Chief of Police;
         b.   Exercise direct authority over all full-time and part-time police
personnel, activities, facilities and equipment;
         c.   Assume command of the Heyworth Police Department in the
unavailability, incapacity or direction of the Chief of Police;
         d.   Shall serve as staff to the Chief of Police; and
         e.   All acts and decision of the Deputy Chief are subject to review
and amendment by the Chief of Police.
      2.   The following are the general responsibilities of the Deputy Chief:
         a.   Assist in the formulation of department objectives;
         b.   Assist in the development of plans to accomplish objective and
coordination of all departmental activities;
         c.   Establish, revise as needed, and implement departmental operation
programs;
         d.   Direct and coordinate the activities of department personnel,
both full-time and part-time;
         e.   Direct and coordinate the training of all officers;
         f.   Be responsible for the preparation, coordination and
implementation of special mobilization plans (i.e. disasters, VIP security,
special event planning and other special events and details involving personnel
as directed);
         g.   Ensure proper care utilization of all departmental equipment;
         h.   Promote the development of knowledge, ability and confidence of
department officers and help enhance the effectiveness and reputation of the
Heyworth Police Department;
         i.   Supervise all officer activities to ensure they are conducting
themselves in accordance with existing policies and orders in the most
effective and efficient manner;
         j.   Be familiar with the departmental operating budget, budget
projections and spending policy set forth by the Village;
         k.   Perform other duties necessary for the Heyworth Police Department
as directed by the Chief of Police; and
         l.   Such other duties and responsibilities as defined for police
officers of the Village. (Ord. 2020-09, 2-20-2020)
1-9E-8: POLICE SERGEANT:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created the position of Police Sergeant. The
Police Sergeant shall be hired by recommendation of the Chief of Police and
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Duties: The Police Sergeant, which shall be the rank immediately below
the Chief of Police, shall be the immediate supervisor over all full-time
police officers and the Police Corporal. The Police Sergeant shall carry out
those lawful orders provided to him or her by the Chief of Police or by lawful
orders of the Mayor to suppress disorder or keep the peace. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-
20-2014)
1-9E-9: POLICE CORPORAL:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created the position of Police Corporal. The
Police Corporal shall be hired by recommendation of the Chief of Police and
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Duties: The Police Corporal shall be the immediate supervisor over
part-time officers only and shall carry-out those lawful orders given to him or
her by the Police Sergeant and Chief of Police or by lawful orders of the Mayor
to suppress disorder or keep the peace. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-20-2014)
1-9E-10: FULL-TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created the position of a full-time police
officer. A full-time police officer shall be hired by recommendation of the
Chief of Police and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Probationary Police Officers: All new full-time police officers, which
includes police officers not currently employed by the Village or not
previously employed as a full-time police officer by the Village within the
last three (3) years, shall be probationary full-time police officers as
defined in the Village Personnel Policy and subject to the requirements therein
contained. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-20-2014)
   C.   Lead Officer: In the event the Chief of Police is incapacitated or
unable to perform his duties, the Chief of Police, or if the Chief of Police is
unable to do so, the Village Administrator, may temporarily designate a full-
time police officer as a "lead officer". As a lead officer, that officer can
perform the administrative responsibilities of the Chief of Police except for
those responsibilities prohibited by law or specifically prohibited by the
Chief of Police or Village Administrator. An officer designated as a lead
officer will receive additional compensation, while performing such duties, of
fifty cents ($0.50) per hour to his/her normal rate of pay. (Ord. 2017-76, 12-
7-2017)
1-9E-11: PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created the position of part-time police
officer. Part-time police officers shall be hired by recommendation of the
Chief of Police and with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Qualifications: All part-time officers, in addition to the other
qualifications and requirements listed in this chapter, shall be qualified to
enter and successfully complete any training mandated by the Illinois Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board.
   C.   Submittal Of This Article To The Illinois Law Enforcement Training
Standards Board: The aforesaid hiring standards, particularly with respect to
part-time police officers employed by the Village of Heyworth, shall be
submitted to the Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board as is
required pursuant to section 3.1-30-21 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 . (Ord.
2014-28, 11-20-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-21.
1-9E-12: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: All police officers must:
      1.   Adherence To Personnel Policy And Other Policies: Adhere to and
abide by the Personnel Policy and Handbook of the Village and other such
applicable policies as provided for by the Mayor, Mayor designee, and/or Chief
of Police, or applicable State of Illinois or Federal laws.
      2.   Compliance With Work Instructions: Follow all lawful work
instructions given, and complete all assigned duties.
      3.   Adhere To Bloodborne Pathogen Policy: Be familiar with and adhere to
the Village Bloodborne Pathogen Policy.
      4.   NIMS Training: Complete and maintain appropriate National Incident
Management System (NIMS) training as is required by law.
      5.   Minimum Skills: Meet the minimum required skills, knowledge,
abilities and physical requirements as herein stated.
   B.   Required Skills, Knowledge, Abilities, And Physical Requirements:
      1.   Knowledge: Knowledge of:
         a.   Application and utilization of applicable computer systems.
         b.   Applicable Village ordinances, resolutions, and policies.
         c.   Appropriate State and Federal Criminal Statutes and evidentiary
procedures.
      2.   Abilities: Ability to:
         a.   Prepare appropriate police reports and other applicable legal
forms.
         b.   Have good communication skills and a calm demeanor, when
warranted, in responding to citizen questions and complaints and in dealing
with the general public in everyday activities as well as public officials and
supervisors.
         c.   Work outside in all weather conditions.
      3.   Mandatory Physical Requirements:
         a.   Meet, and if requested, pass testing, either before hire or while
employed, of general physical standards and minimal physical requirements,
which include, but are not limited to, the following physical standards and
examples thereof:
            (1)   Talking: Constantly. Express or exchange ideas by means of
the spoken word to impart oral information to other officers or the public and
convey detailed spoken instructions to others accurately, loudly or quickly.
            (2)   Standing: Constantly. The ability to stand for extended
periods of time, as may be necessary while taking police reports, communicating
with citizens, directing traffic, while on scene at accidents, or for other
various reasons.
            (3)   Sitting: Constantly. The ability to sit for extended periods
of time, as may be necessary while on routine patrol, preparing reports, or
completing necessary investigative measures.
            (4)   Running: Periodic. The ability to run as may be required in
order to pursue or to aid a person in the course of law enforcement activities.
            (5)   Lifting: Periodic. Officers may have to pick up or lift
persons if the person is not cooperative, to assist another officer in carrying
or dragging a person, if someone is injured, to transfer or take custody of
stolen property or other evidence such as television sets, computers, or other
heavy items, or perform such other lifting as is necessary to perform police
functions.
            (6)   Balancing: Constantly. Officers must be able to perform and
demonstrate simple balancing standards and tests, such as for field sobriety
examination associated with suspected intoxicated drivers, and to perform other
police functions in a safe and appropriate manner.
            (7)   Walking: Constantly. Being able to walk on foot for long
distances, for extended periods of time, and in an appropriate amount of time.
            (8)   Endurance/Moving About: Frequently physically move from
location to location for extended periods.
            (9)   Endurance/Overall Strength: Periodic. Exert force and/or lift
or carry objects weighing up to fifty (50) pounds regularly.
            (10)   Climbing: Periodic. Be able to climb stairs or elevated
surfaces using the legs and feet.
            (11)   Bending/Stooping: Periodic. Stoop by bending the body
downward or forward by flexing the spine at the waist, and/or bend by extending
the spine backward or from side to side.
            (12)   Kneeling/Crouching: Periodic. Kneel by bending the legs at
the knees to come to rest on the knee or knees, and/or crouch by bending the
body downward and forward by bending the legs and spine.
            (13)   Reaching: Constantly. Extend hands and arms in any
direction.
            (14)   Handling: Constantly. Seize, hold, grasp, turn or otherwise
work with the hand or hands.
            (15)   Rotation: Frequently. Twist and turn the spine or a ball and
socket joint such as the shoulder or hip.
            (16)   Hearing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sounds by the
ear.
            (17)   Seeing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sights by the
eyes.
            (18)   Reading: Read statutes, written reports, and instructions
with the eyes.
            (19)   Miscellaneous: Such other physical and mental abilities that
may be required to be a police officer.
         b.   The Village may utilize the physical standards and testing set
forth by the Peace Officer Wellness Evaluation Report (POWER) provide for by
the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board, or any other
appropriate testing methods, procedures, or medical examinations in its
discretion to verify the minimum physical requirements hereinbefore set forth
or referenced can be met by each potential applicant or officer employed by the
Village as provided for by law. (Ord. 2014-28, 11-20-2014)
ARTICLE F. OFFICE STAFF
SECTION:
1-9F-1: Creation And Compensation
1-9F-2: Oath And Bond
1-9F-3: Qualifications
1-9F-4: Powers And Duties
1-9F-1: CREATION AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the position of office staff. The office staff shall be
hired by ordinance by the Village Board of Trustees. Compensation shall be
determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the annual Appropriation
Ordinance. (Ord. 2013-23, 5-2-2013)
1-9F-2: OATH AND BOND:
Due to the confidential nature of this office and the information contained
therein, office staff shall, before entering upon the duties of office, execute
a bond with sureties in such amount to be fixed by resolution and approved by
the Board of Trustees conditioned upon the faithful performance of the office
staff's duties. The office staff shall take the same oath of office prescribed
by statute for Village Treasurer. (Ord. 2013-23, 5-2-2013)
1-9F-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residency: The office staff shall reside within twenty five (25) miles
of the Village corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-37, 5-18-2017)
1-9F-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The duties of the office staff shall include, but are not limited to:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Assist with the filing, organization, bookkeeping, greeting and
addressing of general needs and questions of the public, and other such
secretarial duties;
      2.   Assist with the billing for the water, sewer and garbage accounts of
the Village;
      3.   Maintain and provide accurate information and reports of the various
departments;
      4.   Assist in preparation of various meetings and gatherings of the
Village;
      5.   Assist the Village Clerk, Village Treasurer, Village Board, various
department supervisors, administration, and various Village officials with
information, documentation, and organization to further the needs and
responsibilities of these various Village officials and employees without
disclosing confidential or improper information; and
      6.   Perform other such duties that are appropriate for the proper
conduct and operation of the affairs of the Village. (Ord. 2017-37, 5-18-2017)
ARTICLE G. PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEE
SECTION:
1-9G-1: Creation And Compensation
1-9G-2: Job Qualification Requirements
1-9G-3: Powers And Duties
1-9G-4: Classifications
1-9G-1: CREATION AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the position of Public Works employee. A Public Works
employee shall be hired by action of the Village Board of Trustees with
recommendation from the Superintendent of Public Works or other such supervisor
of the Public Works Department and the Village Administrator. Compensation
shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the annual
Appropriation Ordinance. (Ord. 2013-44, 10-3-2013)
1-9G-2: JOB QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Mandatory General Requirements: Each Public Works employee must:
      1.   Be able to perform each duty hereinafter stated satisfactorily.
      2.   Have good communication skills and a calm demeanor in responding to
citizen questions and complaints and in dealing with the general public in
everyday activities.
      3.   Follow the lawful directives issued by the Superintendent of Public
Works or other appropriate supervisor or official of the Village.
      4.   Have the ability to work within established guidelines.
      5.   Have the ability to perform repetitious tasks.
      6.   Have the ability to use and operate pick-up trucks; tractors;
forklifts; lawnmowers; weedeaters; chain saws; chippers; blowers; various spray
equipment; and miscellaneous power tools for turf maintenance, carpentry,
painting, plumbing, and cement finishing work.
   B.   Mandatory Physical Requirements: Each Public Works employee must be
able to:
      1.   Endurance/Moving About: Frequently physically move from location to
location for extended periods.
      2.   Endurance/Overall Strength: Heavy work. Exert force and/or lift or
carry objects weighing up to fifty (50) pounds regularly.
      3.   Walking: Constantly walk and move about on foot for extended
periods.
      4.   Sitting: Frequently be able to sit for extended periods.
      5.   Lifting/Carrying: Periodic. Lift by manually raising or lowering an
object from one level to another (including upward pulling), and/or carry or
transport objects, usually holding items in the hands or arms or on the
shoulder.
      6.   Pushing/Pulling: Periodic. Push by exerting force on an object so
that it moves away from the force or worker (including, but not limited to,
slapping, striking, kicking, and treadle actions); and/or pull by exerting
force on an object so that it moves toward the force or worker (including
jerking).
      7.   Controls: Frequently. Use one or both arms and/or hands; use one or
either feet or legs to move controls on machinery or equipment.
      8.   Climbing: Periodic. Ascend or descend ladders, stairs, scaffolding,
ramps, poles, ropes, and the like using the feet and legs and/or hands and
arms.
      9.   Balancing: Periodic. Maintain body equilibrium to prevent falling
when walking, standing, crouching, or running on narrow, slippery or
erratically moving surfaces.
      10.   Bending/Stooping: Periodic. Stoop by bending the body downward or
forward by flexing the spine at the waist, and/or bend by extending the spine
backward or from side to side.
      11.   Kneeling/Crouching: Periodic. Kneel by bending the legs at the
knees to come to rest on the knee or knees, and/or crouch by bending the body
downward and forward by bending the legs and spine.
      12.   Crawling: Periodic. Move about on the hands and knees or hands and
feet.
      13.   Reaching: Constantly. Extend hands and arms in any direction.
      14.   Handling: Constantly. Seize, hold, grasp, turn or otherwise work
with the hand or hands.
      15.   Rotation: Frequently. Twist and turn the spine or a ball and socket
joint such as the shoulder or hip.
      16.   Talking: Constantly. Express or exchange ideas by means of the
spoken word to impart oral information to Village employees or officials or to
the public and convey detailed spoken instructions to other workers accurately,
loudly or quickly.
      17.   Hearing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sounds by the ear.
      18.   Seeing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sights by the eyes.
      19.   Reading: Read water meters, written reports, and instructions.
      20.   Writing: Ability to accurately record water meter readings, record
information and summary of events.
      21.   Miscellaneous: Such other physical and mental abilities that may be
required for the position. (Ord. 2013-44, 10-3-2013)
   C.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-44, 5-18-2017)
1-9G-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The duties of the Public Works employees include, but are not limited to:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Repair, replace, patch, crack seal and maintain the A-3, bituminous
or other road surfaces owned by the Village;
      2.   Fill low places, pot holes, and ruts in road surfaces, shoulders or
rights-of-ways owned or maintained by the Village;
      3.   Repair, clean, install and maintain culverts, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers, gutters, ditches, and other drainage facilities owned or maintained by
the Village;
      4.   Clean and maintain Village owned bridges;
      5.   Perform hand mowing, mowing, and trimming of the various properties
owned or maintained by the Village, including, but not limited to, parks,
Village rights-of-way, and real property of the Village;
      6.   Collect and appropriately dispose of or compost brush and landscape
waste, except for grass trimmings and other such items specifically not
collected by the Village;
      7.   Sweep streets;
      8.   Read meters and assist in the operation and maintenance of the water
and sewerage distribution systems;
      9.   Maintain, repair and clean the Village parks, tennis courts, and
other Village properties;
      10.   Perform routine housekeeping duties, keeping stockpiles of
materials appropriately stocked and shaped, and such other tasks and
requirements associated with the general care of the Village buildings and
grounds;
      11.   Straighten, erect, and clean Village traffic signs;
      12.   Lubricate, service, make minor repairs or adjustments, or cause
maintenance to be performed on the Village equipment, including, but not
limited to, Village trucks, tractors, mowing and trimming machines, brush
chippers, construction equipment, snow plows, cinder spreaders, or any other
Public Works' vehicles or equipment;
      13.   Perform normal security measures by making sure all equipment,
tools, materials and property of the Village are secured at the end of each
work shift;
      14.   Prepare, complete and maintain necessary paperwork for operations
affiliated with the Public Works duties and responsibilities, which may
include, but is not limited to, records of materials, equipment usage,
inventory, hours worked, vehicle and equipment usage, and other assigned record
keeping;
      15.   Perform traffic control as needed;
      16.   Performs mechanical work as needed;
      17.   Performs occasional welding;
      18.   Works overtime as required to complete tasks;
      19.   Work weekends and odd hours when necessary;
      20.   Performs minor construction projects, carpentry, concrete and
janitorial services;
      21.   Assists with Code enforcement of garbage, brush, trees, etc.;
      22.   Have knowledge of and be familiar with all safety policies,
procedures, requirement or lawful safety directives that may be required or
imposed to perform the job duties and responsibilities of the Public Works
operations;
      23.   Perform all tasks while properly utilizing, wearing or otherwise
adhering to all safety policies, procedures, requirements or lawful safety
directives as may be required or imposed;
      24.   Work with and assist, where appropriate, other governmental bodies
or private entities that perform work on behalf, oversee, or work with the
Village;
      25.   Adhere to and comply with any lawful personnel policies,
ordinances, resolutions or other actions of the Village Board of Trustees, or
administrative or supervisor directives; and
      26.   Perform such other duties that are appropriate for the proper
conduct and operation of the affairs of the Village. (Ord. 2013-44, 10-3-2013)
1-9G-4: CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   Due to the various duties and responsibilities of the Public Works
Department, and the various requirements that may be necessary to complete some
of those duties and responsibilities, there is hereby created the following
worker classifications within the Public Works Department:
      1.   Seasonal Worker:
         a.   A seasonal Public Works employee is an unskilled worker whose job
duties shall meet the following minimum requirements:
            (1)   Work no more than six hundred (600) hours in a calendar year;
            (2)   Be at least sixteen (16) years of age;
            (3)   Maintain a valid driver's license to operate a motor vehicle
within the State of Illinois;
         b.   A seasonal Public Works employee shall be limited to the
following duties:
            (1)   Perform hand mowing, mowing, and trimming of the various
properties owned or maintained by the Village, including, but not limited to,
parks, Village rights-of-way, and real property of the Village;
            (2)   Maintain, repair and clean the Village parks, tennis courts,
and other Village properties;
            (3)   Have knowledge of and be familiar with all safety policies,
procedures, requirement or lawful safety directives that may be required or
imposed to perform the job duties and responsibilities of the Public Works
operations related to the duties of a seasonal worker;
            (4)   Perform all tasks while properly utilizing, wearing or
otherwise adhering to all safety policies, procedures, requirements or lawful
safety directives as may be required or imposed;
            (5)   Perform such other duties that are appropriate for a seasonal
employee in the Public Works Department of the Village; and
            (6)   Adhere to and comply with any lawful personnel policies,
ordinances, resolutions or other actions of the Village Board of Trustees, or
administrative or supervisor directives.
      2.   Part-Time Worker:
         a.   A Public Works employee classified as a part-time worker is an
unskilled worker whose job duties will consist of the general duties as
hereinbefore described and as assigned by the employee's supervisor from time
to time as deemed appropriate by the supervisor and shall have the minimum
following requirements:
            (1)   Be at least eighteen (18) years of age; and
            (2)   Maintain a valid driver's license to operate a motor vehicle
within the State of Illinois.
      3.   Village Worker I:
         a.   A Public Works employee classified as a Village Worker I is an
unskilled worker whose job duties will consist of the general duties as
hereinbefore described and as assigned by the employee's supervisor from time
to time as deemed appropriate by the supervisor.
         b.   A Village Worker I, in addition to adhering to the duties
hereinbefore described, must:
            (1)   Be at least eighteen (18) years of age;
            (2)   Maintain a valid driver's license to operate a motor vehicle
within the State of Illinois; and
            (3)   Maintain other licensing as is required in order to perform
the essential functions of the job duties assigned.
      4.   Village Worker II:
         a.   A Public Works employee classified as a Village Worker II is a
skilled worker whose job duties will consist of all of the requirements of a
Village Worker I in addition to maintaining a valid State of Illinois issued
CDL driver's license and performing snow plowing.
      5.   Village Worker III:
         a.   A Public Works employee classified as a Village Worker III is a
skilled worker whose job duties will consist of all of the requirements of a
Village Worker II in addition to having specific training or certification
approved by the Village to operate heavy machinery, which the type of heavy
machinery for the purpose of this article only includes, but is not limited to,
a back hoe, high hoe, forklift, skid loader, loader/tractor, etc.
      6.   Village Worker IV:
         a.   A Public Works employee classified as a Village Worker IV is a
skilled worker whose job duties will consist of all of the requirements of a
Village Worker II in addition to:
            (1)   Being a "lead worker" or a working supervisor that works
under the general supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works; and
            (2)   Obtaining and maintaining various additional licensing and/or
certification(s).
   B.   Any Public Works employee, regardless of classification, may be
assigned by the Superintendent of Public Works as the acting designee of the
Superintendent of Public Works, also referred to as a "temporary lead worker",
from time to time and as needed. Any employee designated as an acting lead
worker shall receive an additional twenty five cent ($0.25) wage increase for
the hours that employee is designated as a lead worker.
   C.   A Public Works employee will be classified as a Village Worker I when
initially employed unless specifically stated otherwise by action of the
Village Board when hired and may only advance in job classification if the
employee meets the qualifications for the job classification and only if the
advancement is recommended by the supervisor and approved by the Mayor or Mayor
designee and by action of the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2013-44, 10-3-
2013)
ARTICLE H. SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SANITATION
SECTION:
1-9H-1: Creation And Compensation
1-9H-2: Qualifications
1-9H-3: Employment Policies
1-9H-4: Powers And Duties
1-9H-1: CREATION AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of Water and Sanitation
(or Water and Sewer Operator or Water and Sewer Supervisor or Public Works
Supervisor). The Superintendent of Water and Sanitation shall be hired by
action of the Village Board of Trustees with recommendation from the Director
of Public Works or other such appropriate supervisor of the Public Works
Department. Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as
outlined in the annual Budget or Salary Ordinance. (Ord. 2015-38, 8-20-2015;
amd. Ord. 2022-75, 12-15-2022)
1-9H-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The Superintendent of Water and Sanitation must have the following
qualifications:
   A.   Experience: Prior experience or any equivalent combination of training
is preferred, with administrative qualifications in respect to controlling and
supervising operations, personnel and the functions of a Municipal Public Works
Department. (Ord. 2015-38, 8-20-2015)
   B.   Licensing: Shall have or shall have the ability to obtain, within an
agreed upon timeframe, at the time of hire appropriate licensing to operate the
water system as well as sewerage system of the Village. (Ord. 2017-61, 10-5-
2017)
   C.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specifically approved by action of the Board
of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-31, 5-18-2017)
   D.   Mandatory General Requirements:
      1.   Be able to perform each duty hereinafter stated satisfactorily.
      2.   Have good communication skills and a calm demeanor in responding to
citizen questions and complaints and in dealing with the general public in
everyday activities.
      3.   Follow the lawful directives issued by the Director of Public Works
or other appropriate supervisor or official of the Village.
      4.   Have the ability to work within established guidelines.
      5.   Have the ability to perform repetitious tasks.
      6.   Have the ability to use and operate pick-up trucks; back hoes; pipe
installation equipment; heavy equipment as needed for proper water and
sanitation operations; and miscellaneous power tools for water and sewer
installations and operations.
      7.   Have the ability to perform the necessary chemical usage and
application as well as necessary procedures to assure proper operations of the
Village water system and sewer system.
   E.   Mandatory Physical Requirements: The Superintendent of Water and
Sanitation must be able to meet the physical requirements set forth for the
Public Works' employees. (Ord. 2015-38, 8-20-2015)
1-9H-3: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES:
The position of Superintendent of Water and Sanitation shall be subject to the
following employment policies, subject to amendment from time to time by the
Board of Trustees. The Superintendent of Water and Sanitation shall:
   A.   At the time of appointment, have all relevant details of employment
stated in the resolution of consent for hire by the Board of Trustees that are
not specifically provided for in this chapter, in the employee handbook, or any
policies and practices heretofore or hereinafter adopted by the Board of
Trustees;
   B.   During the term of office with the Village, accept no other employment
without the express permission of the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and shall
dedicate such time and effort as may be necessary to discharge all of the
duties and responsibilities of the position;
   C.   Devote not less than forty (40) hours per calendar week to such
employment and shall be available and accessible for receiving emergency calls
after normal business hours from the Mayor, members of the Board of Trustees,
Chief of Police and heads of other departments of the Village to provide
assistance, services, supervision and information regarding urgent
circumstances which may arise during such period;
   D.   Attend such continuing education, professional development and related
educational conferences, seminars and programs which are directly related to
the discharge of the duties of Water Superintendent and shall be reimbursed by
the Village at an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per
fiscal year or such amount provided for in the Village budget, whichever is
less;
   E.   Receive such disability, health, dental and life insurance benefits as
may be provided to all other full time employees of the Village; and
   F.   Be credited for such vacation, sick and personal time as is provided to
all other full time employees of the Village, and as such may be amended from
time to time by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2015-38, 8-20-2015)
1-9H-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Superintendent of Water and Sanitation shall perform all duties necessary
for the appropriate and efficient operation of the Public Works, subject to the
direction of the Water Superintendent's Supervisors or general authority of the
Village Board of Trustees, including, but not limited to, the sewerage, and
water infrastructures and operations. Such duties provided for in this section
may be supplemented, modified or amended by amendment of this chapter, or such
other necessary enactments or adoptions by the Mayor and the Board of Trustees
from time to time. In connection therewith, the Superintendent of Water and
Sanitation shall:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Be responsible for the direct supervision, subject to the general
supervision of the Director of Public Works, Superintendent of Public Works,
Village Administrator, Mayor or Mayor designee, of all Water and Sanitation
Department employees; and in the event that a Superintendent of Streets and
Drainage has not been designated, then this position shall be responsible for
the direct supervision over the Streets and Drainage employees as well; and
      2.   Oversee the activities and projects necessary to maintain the day-
to-day water, sewer, and storm sewer functions and operations;
      3.   Recommend to the Director of Public Works or other supervisor or
Board of Trustees such measures deemed in the best interest of the Village
Water and Sewer Departments and operations;
      4.   Implement and carry out the direction and procedures established by
the Director of Public Works or other Water Superintendent Supervisor or by
ordinance or resolution of the Board of Trustees;
      5.   Assist in the planning and supervision of the sewer and water
functions;
      6.   When requested, attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees,
standing committees of the Village, and other various Village boards and
commissions, with authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but
without right to vote;
      7.   Coordinate resources and personnel with other departments in Public
Works to ensure the efficient operation of the Public Works Department; and
      8.   Perform other duties as may be required by the Water
Superintendent's supervisors and action of the Board of Trustees consistent
with law and ordinances of the Village.
      9.   Assist with and working with the designated lead Code compliance
official to perform Code compliance enforcement in the Village.
   B.   Personnel Duties:
      1.   Assist with managing Water and Sanitation Department personnel
functions and ensure compliance with all applicable Federal and State
employment and labor laws and regulations;
      2.   Assist in the recruiting, screening and evaluating all candidates
for employment with the Village Water and Sanitation Department;
      3.   Assist with developing work schedule plans for the Water Department
employees, and supervise implementation of those work schedule plans;
      4.   Assist with Water and Sanitation Department employees performance
reviews for presentation to supervisors; and
      5.   Administer Village personnel procedures and policies and recommend
changes of such to the Director of Public Works when deemed appropriate. (Ord.
2015-38, 8-20-2015; amd. Ord. 2022-75, 12-15-2022)
ARTICLE I. SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS AND DRAINAGE
SECTION:
1-9I-1: Creation And Compensation
1-9I-2: Qualifications
1-9I-3: Employment Policies
1-9I-4: Powers And Duties
1-9I-1: CREATION AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of Streets and Drainage.
The Superintendent of Streets and Drainage shall be hired by action of the
Village Board of Trustees with recommendation from the Director of Public Works
or other such appropriate supervisor of the Public Works Department.
Compensation shall be determined by the Board of Trustees as outlined in the
annual Budget or Salary Ordinance. (Ord. 2015-39, 8-20-2015)
1-9I-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The Superintendent of Streets and Drainage must meet the following
qualifications and standards:
   A.   Experience: Prior experience or any equivalent combination of training
is preferred, with administrative qualifications in respect to controlling and
supervising operations, personnel and the functions of a Municipal Public Works
Department with specific understanding or experience in construction,
maintenance, and planning of streets, alleys, rights-of-way, sidewalk,
stormwater detention, drainage, and parks. (Ord. 2015-39, 8-20-2015)
   B.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specifically approved by the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2017-30, 5-18-2017)
   C.   Mandatory General Requirements: The Superintendent of Streets and
Drainage must:
      1.   Be able to perform each duty hereinafter stated satisfactorily.
      2.   Have good communication skills and a calm demeanor in responding to
citizen questions and complaints and in dealing with the general public in
everyday activities.
      3.   Follow the lawful directives issued by the Director of Public Works
or other appropriate supervisor or official of the Village.
      4.   Have the ability to work within established guidelines.
      5.   Have the ability to perform repetitious tasks.
      6.   Have the ability to use and operate pick-up trucks; tractors;
forklifts; lawnmowers; weedeaters; chain saws; chippers; blowers; various spray
equipment; heavy equipment as needed for proper street and drainage operations;
and miscellaneous power tools for turf maintenance, carpentry, painting,
plumbing, and cement finishing work.
   D.   Mandatory Physical Requirements: The Superintendent of Streets and
Drainage must be able to meet the physical requirements set forth for the
Public Works' employees. (Ord. 2015-39, 8-20-2015)
1-9I-3: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES:
The position of Superintendent of Streets and Drainage shall be subject to the
following employment policies, subject to amendment from time to time by the
Board of Trustees. The Superintendent of Streets and Drainage shall:
   A.   At the time of appointment, have all relevant details of employment
stated in the resolution of consent for hire by the Board of Trustees that are
not specifically provided for in this chapter, in the employee handbook, or any
policies and practices heretofore or hereinafter adopted by the Board of
Trustees;
   B.   During the term of office with the Village, accept no other employment
without the express permission of the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and shall
dedicate such time and effort as may be necessary to discharge all of the
duties and responsibilities of the position;
   C.   Devote not less than forty (40) hours per calendar week to such
employment and shall be available and accessible for receiving emergency calls
after normal business hours from the Mayor, members of the Board of Trustees,
Chief of Police and heads of other departments of the Village to provide
assistance, services, supervision and information regarding urgent
circumstances which may arise during such period;
   D.   Attend such continuing education, professional development and related
educational conferences, seminars and programs which are directly related to
the discharge of the duties of the Superintendent of Streets and Drainage and
shall be reimbursed by the Village at an amount not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per fiscal year or such amount provided for in the Village
budget, whichever is less;
   E.   Receive such disability, health, dental and life insurance benefits as
may be provided to all other full time employees of the Village; and
   F.   Be credited for such vacation, sick and personal time as is provided to
all other full time employees of the Village, and as such may be amended from
time to time by the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2015-39, 8-20-2015)
1-9I-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Superintendent of Streets and Drainage shall perform all duties necessary
for the appropriate and efficient operation of the Street Department of the
Village, including, but not limited to, the streets, alleys, right-of-ways,
culverts, parks, stormwater detention and drainage. Such duties provided for in
this section may be supplemented, modified or amended by amendment of this
chapter, or such other necessary enactments or adoptions by the Mayor and the
Board of Trustees from time to time. In connection therewith, the
Superintendent shall:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Be responsible for the direct supervision, subject to the general
supervision of the Mayor or Mayor designee, Village Administrator, and Director
of Public Works, of Streets and Drainage Department ("street") employees;
      2.   Oversee the activities and projects necessary to maintain the day-
to-day street, rights-of-way (excluding general lawn maintenance if there is
another department maintaining such), culverts, and drainage functions and
operations;
      3.   Recommend to the Director of Public Works or other supervisor or
Board of Trustees such measures deemed in the best interest of the Street
Department and operations;
      4.   Implement and carry out the direction and procedures established by
any Street Department Supervisor or by ordinance or resolution of the Board of
Trustees;
      5.   Assist in the planning and supervision of the Village streets and
alleys, sewer, rights-of-way, sidewalks, and drainage;
      6.   When requested, attend the meetings of the Board of Trustees,
standing committees of the Village, and other various Village boards and
commissions, with authority to participate and assist in the discussions, but
without right to vote;
      7.   Coordinate resources and personnel with other departments in Public
Works to ensure the efficient operation of the Public Works Department; and
      8.   Perform other duties as may be required by the Superintendent of
Streets and Drainage Supervisors and action of the Board of Trustees consistent
with law and ordinances of the Village.
   B.   Personnel Duties:
      1.   Assist with managing Street Department personnel functions and
ensure compliance with all applicable Federal and State employment and labor
laws and regulations;
      2.   Assist in the recruiting, screening and evaluating all candidates
for employment with the Village Street Department;
      3.   Assist with developing work schedule plans for the Street Department
employees, and supervise implementation of those work schedule plans;
      4.   Assist with Street Department employees performance reviews for
presentation to supervisors; and
      5.   Administer Village personnel procedures and policies and recommend
changes of such to the Director of Public Works or other appropriate supervisor
when deemed appropriate. (Ord. 2015-39, 8-20-2015)
 
   CHAPTER 9
   VILLAGE EMPLOYEES AND PERSONNEL
ARTICLE J. BUILDING INSPECTOR AND GROUNDS MAINTENANCE EMPLOYEE
SECTION:
1-9J-1: Creation And Compensation
1-9J-2: Oath And Bond
1-9J-3: Position Defined
1-9J-4: Qualifications
1-9J-5: Powers And Duties
1-9J-6: Inspections; Right Of Entry
1-9J-7: Stop Work Orders
1-9J-1: CREATION AND COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created the position of village building inspector and grounds
maintenance, which may also be referred to as building inspector. This position
is similar to a code compliance officer that is primarily an employee of the
Building and Zoning Department but shall have duties and responsibilities that
are similar to a custodian of buildings and grounds that is under the Parks &
Recreation Department under the Public Works Department. A building inspector
and grounds maintenance employee shall be approved with the consent of the
mayor and the board of trustees. Compensation shall be determined by the board
of trustees as outlined in the annual budget or wage and salary ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-35, 7-6-2023)
1-9J-2: OATH AND BOND:
Due to the exposure of this position to confidential matters of the village, a
building inspector and grounds maintenance employee, before performing the
duties of the position, shall execute a bond with sureties in such amount to be
fixed by resolution and approved by the board of trustees conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the building inspector’s duties and responsibilities. A
building inspector employee shall take the oath of office prescribed by statute
1 . (Ord. 2023-35, 7-6-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See 65 ILCS 5/3, 1-10-25
1-9J-3: POSITION DEFINED:
The building inspector and grounds maintenance employee shall be either a 3/
4 time employee or a full-time employee who is scheduled to work in compliance
with the Village Employee Personnel Policy and Handbook. (Ord. 2023-35, 7-6-
2023)
1-9J-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
The building inspector and grounds maintenance employee must possess and meet
the following qualifications, skills, physical requirements and abilities:
   A.   Professional Licenses or Certifications:
      1.   A professional license in either engineering or architecture; or
      2.   a.   Must possess or obtain within 12 months of hire certification
by the International Code Council as a Residential Building Inspector and
Commercial Building Inspector; and
         b.   Must possess or obtain within 18 months of hire a Commercial
Building Plans Examiner Certification.
   B.   Skills:
      1.   Using Microsoft Office products;
      2.   Using permitting software; and
      3.   Using GIS software.
   C.   Ability to:
      1.   Organize and prioritize workload;
      2.   Read building plans and specifications;
      3.   Critically apply building and construction code requirements and
ordinances of the Village;
      4.   Detect possible defects and faults at various stages in building
construction;
      5.   Work well without close supervision and meet the requests of various
supervisors;
      6.   Complete job tasks in a prescribed period of time or ask for help
when the situation demands;
      7.   Communicate and work effectively with other employees, other
government agencies, and the public;
      8.   Operate and help maintain a variety of equipment and vehicles,
including, but not limited to: pick-ups; utility-terrain vehicles; lawn care
equipment including lawnmowers, weed eaters and blowers; cleaning equipment;
and tools necessary for the general maintenance on buildings and grounds, parks
and playgrounds;
      9.   Work in hot or cold weather, above ground level on roofs or attics,
and below ground in crawl spaces, or working in confined spaces;
      10.   Have a good knowledge of the hazards and safety measures required
for the safe maintenance and operations of buildings and grounds, parks, and
playgrounds;
      11.   Perform necessary manual labor and safely use/operate tools and
machinery, climb ladders, lift equipment and/or supplies and materials;
      12.   Be able to use/operate tools and machinery that are commonly used
in the performance of buildings and grounds maintenance;
      13.   Have the ability to perform repetitious tasks;
      14.   Possess basic math skills with the ability to provide accurate
estimates of materials and supplies required for building maintenance projects
and maintain records related thereto; and
      15.   Respond to calls after scheduled work hours and/or on weekends if
needed; and
      16.   Meet the following minimum physical requirements:
         a.   Endurance/Moving About: Frequently physically move from location
to location for extended periods.
         b.   Endurance/Overall strength: Medium work. Exert force and/or lift
or carry objects weighing up to 50 pounds periodically.
         c.   Walking: Constantly. Walk and move about on foot for extended
periods.
         d.   Sitting: Frequently. Be able to sit for extended periods.
         e.   Lifting/Carrying: Periodic. Lift by manually raising or lowering
an object from one level to another (including upward pulling), and/or carry or
transport objects, usually holding items in the hands or arms or on the
shoulder.
         f.   Pushing/Pulling: Periodic. Push by exerting force on an object so
that it moves away from the force or worker (including, but not limited to,
slapping, striking, kicking, and treadle actions); and/or pull by exerting
force on an object so that it moves toward the force or worker (including
jerking).
         g.   Controls: Frequently. Use one or both arms and/or hands; use one
or either feet or legs to move controls on machinery or equipment.
         h.   Climbing: Periodic. Ascend or descend ladders, stairs,
scaffolding, ramps, poles, ropes, and the like using the feet and legs and/or
hands and arms.
         I.   Balancing: Periodic. Maintain body equilibrium to prevent falling
when walking, standing, crouching, or running on narrow, slippery or
erratically moving surfaces.
         j.   Bending/Stooping: Periodic. Stoop by bending the body downward or
forward by flexing the spine at the waist, and/or bend by extending the spine
backward or from side to side.
         k.   Kneeling/Crouching: Periodic. Kneel by bending the legs at the
knees to come to rest on the knee or knees, and/or crouch by bending the body
downward and forward by bending the legs and spine.
         l.   Crawling: Periodic. Move about on the hands and knees or hands
and feet.
         m.   Reaching: Constantly. Extend hands and arms in any direction.
         n.   Handling: Constantly. Seize, hold, grasp, turn or otherwise work
with the hand or hands.
         o.   Rotation: Frequently. Twist and turn the spine or a ball and
socket joint such as the shoulder or hip.
         p.   Talking: Constantly. Express or exchange ideas by means of the
spoken word to impart oral information to Village employees or officials or to
the public and convey detailed spoken instructions to other workers accurately,
loudly and quickly.
         q.   Hearing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sounds by the ear.
         r.   Seeing: Constantly. Perceive the nature of sights by the eyes.
         s.   Reading: Read written reports, instructions and other relevant
writings.
         t.   Writing: Ability to accurately record inventory, information and
summaries of events.
         u.   Misc.: Such other physical and mental abilities that may be
required for the position.
   C.   The Village may request or desire a building inspection and grounds
maintenance employee to possess or maintain the following skills, licenses or
abilities:
      1.   A valid “Class B” or higher Illinois Commercial Driver’s License;
      2.   Any required Illinois pesticide spraying license necessary to
appropriately maintain the Village parks, grounds, or rights-of way;
      3.   Have a good working knowledge of carpentry, plumbing, and electrical
skills.
   D.   Residency: Shall reside within twenty-five (25) miles of the Village
corporate limits unless otherwise specified by an agreement with the Village
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2023-35, 7-6-2023)
1-9J-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The duties and responsibilities of a building inspector and grounds maintenance
employee shall include, but are not limited to:
   A.   General Duties:
      1.   Serve under the direct supervision of the Director of Public Works
and designated Code Compliance Officer, and under the general supervision of
the mayor or mayor designee and Village Administrator;
      2.   Inspect new and existing construction for minimum conformance with
building construction codes and ordinances; responsible for ordering corrective
action and inspecting for compliance as required;
      3.   Enforce, by all appropriate means, all laws and ordinances of the
Village relating to the condition, construction, repair, alteration, addition
or maintenance of buildings and structures, including the Building and Housing
Codes (title 10, chapter 1 of this Code) and the Zoning Ordinance (title 11 of
this Code);
      4.   Review plans for proposed construction to determine compliance with
national, state, and Village construction codes, and the Village zoning
ordinance;
      5.   Review and respond to applications for building and occupancy
permits pursuant to title 10 of the Village Code;
      6.   Determine whether work requires permits and assure compliance with
required permitting processes and requirements;
      7.   Coordinate and conduct inspections of properties for which a
building or occupancy permit is requested;
      8.   Issue permits and collect fees for building construction,
demolition, and occupancy;
      9.   Be the primary person to locate, mark, and comply with J.U.L.I.E.
locates within the Village for Village infrastructure;
      10.   Be the designated Zoning Administrating Official if the position of
Zoning Administrating Official is not otherwise filled and in lieu of the Code
Compliance Officer;
      11.   Assist with the implementation, collection, and input of data for
the Village GIS system;
      12.   Assist with data collection of Village infrastructure to aid with
compliance with federal and state regulations and requirements and planning;
      13.   Coordinate and cooperate with the Randolph Township Fire District
Life Safety Code Compliance Officer pursuant to title 10 of this Code;
      14.   Assist with the maintenance of the grounds, rights-of-way, and
parks, including, but not limited to, the mowing, weed eating, trimming and
general landscape maintenance of the Village parks and rights-of-way, snow
removal of appropriate Village sidewalks and rights-of-way, and assist with
keeping Village sidewalks and parks free of inappropriate obstructions or
items;
      15.   Assist with the cleaning and maintenance of the Village Hall, park
restroom buildings and facilities, and other Village buildings;
      16.   Assist with the general maintenance and cleaning of Village
vehicles and equipment;
      17.   Perform and/or assist in basic carpentry, painting, plumbing,
electrical, concrete and other similar tasks relating to the repair and
maintenance of village owned buildings and facilities;
      18.   Maintain inventories and complete records of all work performed;
      19.   Maintain and provide accurate information and reports of inventory
to the budget officer and supervisors of the various village departments;
      20.   Assist with maintaining, moving or assembling furniture, and assist
with computer equipment and wiring;
      21.   Assist with performing preventative maintenance for plumbing,
heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment including replacing belts
and changing filters;
      22.   Perform other such duties that are appropriate for the proper
conduct and operation of the affairs of the village; and
      23.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the mayor, mayor
designee, Village Administrator or department supervisor(s) consistent with the
laws and ordinances of the village. (Ord. 2023-35, 7-6-2023)
1-9J-6: INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   A building inspector and grounds maintenance employee, in the discharge
of his or her official duties and upon proper certification, shall have the
authority to enter any building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
   B.   A building inspector and grounds maintenance employee, when performing
and completing inspections in his or her formal capacity, shall not be
responsible for determining or advising persons of violations of all laws
relating to the condition, construction, repair, alteration, addition or
maintenance of buildings and structures. Failure of a building inspector to
strictly enforce any law relating to the condition, construction, repair,
alteration, addition or maintenance of buildings and structures shall not
relieve any person or corporation from adhering to those laws nor from being
responsible for any damage, repair or reconstruction that may be required as a
result of the failure to comply with any laws relating to the condition,
construction, repair, alteration, addition or maintenance of buildings and
structures. (Ord. 2023-35, 7-6-2023)
1-9J-7: STOP WORK ORDERS:
A building inspector and grounds maintenance employee shall have the power to
order work stopped on the construction, alteration, or repair of any building,
structure or premises when such work is being done in violation of any
ordinance. Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such a stop order
except upon written permission of a building inspector and grounds maintenance
employee; provided, that if the stop order is issued verbally, it shall be
followed by a written stop order within one hour of the verbal order. Such
written stop order may be served by a building inspector and grounds
maintenance employee, any other authorized employee, or by any police officer
of the Village. (Ord. 2023-35, 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 10
RESERVED
(Ord. 2015-46, 11-5-2015)
CHAPTER 11
BLOODBORNE PATHOGEN POLICY
SECTION:
1-11-1: Policy
1-11-2: Purpose
1-11-3: Definitions
1-11-4: Procedure
1-11-1: POLICY:
It shall be the policy of the village to comply with rules of the Illinois
department of labor relating to occupational exposure to blood or other
potentially infectious materials. (Ord. 2006-04, 3-20-2006)
1-11-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to inform village employees (employees) of
appropriate precautionary measures to be taken in circumstances where employees
may be exposed to infectious materials. It is the responsibility of each
employee to ensure not only self-compliance with this policy but to report any
violations of procedures to his/her immediate supervisor. (Ord. 2006-04, 3-20-
2006)
1-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
All definitions found in section 29 CFR 1910.1030(b) of the occupational safety
and health act, entitled "Bloodborne Pathogens", are hereinafter made part of
this chapter and shall apply when referred to herein. A hard copy may be found
in the police department supervisor's office. (Ord. 2006-04, 3-20-2006)
1-11-4: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Exposure Control Plan:
      1.   Statute Authority; Plan Developed: In accordance with the OSHA
bloodborne pathogens standard, 29 CFR 1910.1030, the following exposure control
plan has been developed:
         a.   The Illinois department of labor requires the village to perform
an exposure determination concerning which of its employees may incur
occupational exposure to blood and other potentially infectious materials. The
exposure determination is made without regard to the use of personal protective
equipment (i.e., employees are considered to be exposed even if they wear
personal protective equipment).
         b.   At the village, the following job classifications may have
occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials:
            (1)   Chief of police.
            (2)   Police sergeant.
            (3)   Police officers.
            (4)   Mayor.
            (5)   Village trustees.
            (6)   Office staff.
            (7)   Maintenance staff.
            (8)   Street employees.
            (9)   Labor employees.
      2.   Precautions And Compliance Methods:
         a.   Universal precautions, as defined under 29 CFR 1910.1030(b) shall
be taken by all employees of the village to prevent contact with blood or other
potentially infectious materials.
         b.   Village employees shall treat all blood and other potentially
infectious materials, as defined in the OSHA regulations as potentially
infectious, and follow all precautionary measures outlined in this section at
all times.
         c.   Whenever an employee's skin comes in contact with blood or other
potentially infectious materials, the employee shall immediately, or as soon as
possible, wash his/her hands and any other skin with soap and warm water, or
flush mucous membranes with water following the contact.
         d.   Whenever an employee of the village is exposed to any blood or
potentially infectious materials, the employee, as soon as possible, shall be
required to wash his/her hands in running warm water with a nonabrasive soap,
and then dry his/her hands with a clean cloth, paper towel or hand blower
device.
         e.   Employees exposed to blood or other potentially infectious
materials, which are in the field, shall use antiseptic hand cleaners when
handwashing facilities are not available.
When antiseptic hand cleaners are used, hands shall be washed with soap and
warm running water as soon as possible. Cleaner and towels/paper towels will be
provided by the village.
         f.   Employees wearing protective gloves or other personal equipment,
as soon as possible after removal of same, shall wash their hands immediately
or as soon as possible, using soap and warm water.
      3.   Personal Protective Equipment:
         a.   The village shall provide personal protective equipment to
village employees at no cost. This equipment shall not permit blood or other
potentially infectious materials to pass through or reach the employee's work
clothes, street clothes, undergarments, skin, eyes, mouth, or mucous membranes
under normal conditions when the personal protective equipment is worn.
         b.   Personal protective equipment shall be available at the following
locations:
            (1)   All marked and unmarked police vehicles.
            (2)   All workstations of employees who may be exposed to blood or
other potentially infectious materials.
            (3)   All supervisory offices.
         c.   Personal protective equipment shall consist of the following:
            (1)   Disposable single use gloves.
            (2)   Safety glasses and masks.
            (3)   Gowns.
            (4)   Surgical caps and shoe covers.
            (5)   CPR mask.
         d.   Personal protective equipment shall be utilized as follows:
            (1)   Disposable gloves shall be worn whenever an employee can be
reasonably expected to have contact with blood, other potentially infectious
materials, mucous membranes, and nonintact skin, and also, whenever an employee
handles or touches contaminated items or surfaces.
            (2)   Only disposable gloves shall be worn. Gloves shall not be
washed and reused.
            (3)   Supervisory employees shall ensure that subordinates use
appropriate personal protective equipment as required in this section.
            (4)   In those cases where an employee temporarily and briefly
declined to use personal protective equipment, when, under rare and
extraordinary circumstances, it was the employee's professional judgment that
in the specific instance the use of such protective equipment would have
prevented the delivery of healthcare or public safety services or would have
posed an increased hazard to the safety of the employee or another employee,
the circumstances shall be investigated and documented by the employee's
immediate supervisor to determine whether changes can be instituted to prevent
such occurrences in the future.
            (5)   Personal protective equipment provided by the village shall
be of a disposable type and not laundered or reused.
            (6)   Personal protective equipment shall be removed by village
employees prior to leaving the location of the incident where protective
equipment use was required.
            (7)   All personal protective equipment, once used, shall be
disposed of by the employee who used the equipment as follows:
               (A)   The personal protective items shall be placed in the
biohazard labeled bag provided with each personal protective kit.
               (B)   The employee shall place the biohazard labeled bag in the
biohazard marked disposal receptacle.
               (C)   Biohazard labels shall conform to the requirements of the
occupational safety and health act and be either fluorescent orange or orange-
red in color.
               (D)   The village shall dispose of all biohazard labeled
materials in accordance with current legal requirements and regulations
governing same.
               (E)   All repair, maintenance, cleaning, laundering, and
disposal shall be the responsibility of the village at no cost to the employee.
   B.   Housekeeping (General):
      1.   Employees of the village shall ensure that all work site areas where
they are assigned are maintained in clean and sanitary conditions.
      2.   All working surfaces shall be cleaned and decontaminated with an
appropriate disinfectant as soon as possible after coming into contact with
blood or other potentially infectious materials. Surfaces (i.e., the inside of
police vehicles) where blood or other potentially infectious materials are
overtly contaminated or after any spill of blood or other potentially
infectious materials has occurred shall, whenever possible, be cleaned and
decontaminated immediately after the spill or overt contamination incident.
      3.   Surfaces which may have been contaminated since the last cleaning
shall be cleaned and disinfected at the end of the employee's shift, if the
surface may have been contaminated since the last cleaning.
      4.   Receptacles used for disposing of blood or other potentially
infectious materials shall be inspected for contamination on a daily basis, and
cleaned and decontaminated immediately or as soon as possible once visibly
contaminated. These containers, in addition to bearing the required biohazard
labels, shall:
         a.   Be closable.
         b.   Constructed to contain all contents and prevent leakage of fluids
during handling, storage, transport or shipping.
         c.   Closed prior to removal to prevent spillage or protrusion of
contents during handling, storage, transport or shipping.
         d.   If the containers themselves are contaminated on the outside,
they shall be placed in a second container. The second container shall be:
            (1)   Closable.
            (2)   Constructed to contain all contents and prevent leakage of
fluids during handling, storage, transport, or shipping.
            (3)   Closed prior to removal to prevent spillage or protrusion of
contents during handling, storage, transport, or shipping.
      5.   Contaminated needles and sharps shall be disposed of without
shearing or breaking. These items shall be disposed of in puncture resistant,
biohazard labeled containers, having leakproof sides and bottoms. These items
shall be located in each police vehicle.
      6.   Disposal of all regulated waste shall be in accordance with
applicable regulations of the United States, state of Illinois and any other
county or local regulations.
      7.   Disposal of all regulated waste shall be performed by a licensed
vendor at a licensed disposal facility.
   C.   Laundry:
      1.   Contaminated laundry shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to, the following: Employee uniforms and clothing items worn on duty, including
undergarments, socks, shoes, and outerwear, whether supplied by the village or
personally owned, which have been exposed to blood or other potentially
infectious material while an employee was performing his/her official duties.
      2.   Contaminated laundry shall be contained in the location where used
and handled as little as possible, with a minimum of agitation, and bagged or
containerized at the location where it was used, and not sorted or rinsed in
the location of use.
      3.   Containers and bags used for storing contaminated laundry shall be
constructed of materials, which prevent soaking through or leakage of fluids to
the exterior.
      4.   Any employee handling contaminated laundry shall wear disposable
protective gloves. When circumstances indicate the possibility of splashing or
spillage of blood or other potentially infectious materials from laundry,
whether contained or not, the appropriate additional personal protective
equipment shall be worn by any employee when handling same.
      5.   In the case of an employee's uniform or clothing items being exposed
to blood or other potentially infectious materials, the employee shall change
clothes at the village hall as soon as possible after the exposure and bag the
uniform items with a biohazard label. The laundry will be transported to St.
Joseph Hospital in Bloomington, where it will be sent out for cleaning by a
licensed launderer.
      6.   In no case shall an employee launder any clothing items, including
uniform items, at his/her home, a commercial laundromat or cleaners, which have
been exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials.
   D.   Training:
      1.   All employees of the village performing duties likely to involve
occupational exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials shall
receive training annually. The training shall be provided by the village.
      2.   Training shall be conducted by a person knowledgeable in the subject
matter covered as it relates to the duties of those employees who could be
occupationally exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials.
      3.   Newly hired employees shall receive mandatory training on the OSHA
bloodborne pathogen standards prior to initial assignment.
      4.   Additional training shall be provided to employees when changes such
as modification of tasks or procedures affects the employee's occupational
exposure. The training may be limited solely to addressing the new exposures.
   E.   Recordkeeping:
      1.   The village, by each appropriate supervisor, shall establish and
maintain an accurate record for each employee with occupational exposure to
include the following:
         a.   The name/number of each employee.
         b.   A copy of all hepatitis B vaccination records of employees,
including the dates of vaccinations and any medical records relative to the
employee's ability to receive hepatitis B vaccinations.
         c.   Healthcare professional written opinions on whether an employee
has received hepatitis B vaccinations or any medical records relative to an
employee's ability to receive vaccinations.
         d.   Declination forms from employees who do not wish to be
vaccinated.
All medical records as specified herein shall be kept confidential, and are not
disclosed or reported without the employee's express written consent to any
person within or outside of the village, except as required by this chapter or
as may be required by law.
      2.   The certificate of completion from MTU-8 shall be maintained in the
training files by the village. This record shall be maintained at least three
(3) years after the training was attended/provided.
   F.   Vaccinations:
      1.   Hepatitis B vaccinations shall be made available to all employees,
free of charge.
      2.   The village will find an appropriate facility to vaccinate
employees, unless otherwise provided.
      3.   Employees may receive the vaccinations or decline them.
      4.   Any employee who declines to be vaccinated shall do so in writing in
the manner prescribed by OSHA.
      5.   If an employee initially declines the hepatitis B vaccination but at
a later date decides to accept the vaccination, the village shall make
available hepatitis B vaccination at that time.
      6.   If a booster dose of hepatitis B vaccine is recommended at a later
date, the village shall make the vaccination opportunity available to all
employees requiring booster doses. (Ord. 2006-04, 3-20-2006)
   G.   Postexposure Evaluation And Follow Up:
      1.   If an employee of the village has an exposure incident, the employee
shall report the incident to his immediate supervisor, and the employee shall
make immediately available to the supervisor a confidential medical evaluation
and follow up to include at least the following elements: (Ord. 2006-04, 3-20-
2006; amd. 2011 Code)
         a.   Documentation of the route(s) of exposure, and the circumstances
under which the exposure incident occurred.
         b.   Identification and documentation of the source individual, unless
the village can establish that identification is infeasible or prohibited by
state or local law.
      2.   The source individual's blood shall be tested as soon as feasible,
and after consent is obtained, in order to determine HBV and HIV infectivity.
If consent is not obtained, the village shall establish that legally required
consent cannot be obtained. When the source individual's consent is not
required by law, the source individual's blood, if available, shall be tested
and the results documented.
      3.   When the source individual is already known to be infected with HBV
or HIV, testing for the source individual's known HBV or HIV status need not be
repeated.
      4.   Results of the source individual's testing shall be made available
to the exposed employee, and the employee shall be informed of applicable laws
and regulations concerning disclosure of the identity and infectious status of
the source individual.
      5.   Collection of blood from an employee who may have been exposed to
HBV or HIV shall be in accordance with all state and federal regulations
pertaining to same.
      6.   Postexposure prophylaxis, counseling and evaluation of reported
illnesses may also be recommended by the treating healthcare professional for
any employee. (Ord. 2006-04, 3-20-2006)
      7.   The employee shall obtain and provide the supervisor with a copy of
the evaluating healthcare professional's written opinion within fifteen (15)
days of the completion of the evaluation. (Ord. 2006-04, 3-20-2006; amd. 2011
Code)
      8.   The healthcare professional's written opinion for hepatitis B
vaccination shall be limited to whether hepatitis B vaccination is indicated
for an employee, and if the employee has received such vaccination. This
subsection G8 only applies in those cases where an employee, by himself/herself
was vaccinated for hepatitis B prior to the implementation of this procedure,
or in the event any employee at any time elects to be vaccinated other than as
provided by the village.
      9.   In the case of a postexposure incident, the following information
shall be provided by the healthcare professional to the village:
         a.   That the employee has been informed of the results of the
evaluation.
         b.   That the employee has been told about any medical conditions
resulting from exposure to blood or other potentially infectious materials
which require further evaluation or treatment.
      10.   All other findings or diagnoses shall remain confidential and shall
not be included in the written report.
      11.   Employees who have an exposure incident shall immediately notify
their supervisor. The employee shall immediately seek treatment at a village
approved healthcare facility.
      12.   Any employee involved in an exposure incident shall fully document,
in memorandum form, an incident evaluation that explains the routes of
exposure, circumstances surrounding the exposure and the description of the
protective gear used. The memorandum shall be forwarded to the appropriate
supervisor. (Ord. 2006-04, 3-20-2006)
CHAPTER 12
CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-12-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-12-2: Definitions
1-12-3: Prohibited Acts
1-12-4: Incorporation By Reference
1-12-5: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-12-6: Penalties
1-12-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 430/10-10 through
430/10-40 of the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this
chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers
and employees of the village to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 2011-50, 12-5-2011)
1-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 2011-
50, 12-5-2011)
1-12-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act, by any officer or employee of the village, is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 2011-50, 12-5-2011)
1-12-4: INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date of
this chapter shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be
applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to
prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by this governmental entity. (Ord. 2011-50, 12-
5-2011)
1-12-5: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the village board of trustees if the act is found unconstitutional by the
Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the act, then the remainder of the act as
adopted by this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the village board of
trustees. (Ord. 2011-50, 12-5-2011)
1-12-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties found in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar violations
of the act, unless otherwise specifically specified herein.
   B.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an official or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-12-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 2011-50,
12-5-2011)
CHAPTER 13
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION AND PROTECTION PROGRAM
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose
1-13-2: Scope
1-13-3: Definitions
1-13-4: Administration Of The Program
1-13-5: Identity Theft Prevention Elements
1-13-6: Detection Of Red Flags
1-13-7: Response To Detected Red Flags
1-13-8: Prevention Of Identity Theft
1-13-9: Social Security Number Protections
1-13-10: Program Updates; Risk Assessment
1-13-11: Other Legal Requirements
1-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Heyworth municipal utility identity theft prevention and
protection program (program) is to protect customers of the municipality's
utility services from identity theft and to ensure the confidentiality and
integrity of social security numbers (SSNs) the village may collect, maintain,
and use. The program is intended to establish reasonable policies and
procedures to facilitate the detection, prevention and mitigation of identity
theft in connection with the opening of new covered accounts and activity on
existing covered accounts, or use of an SSN. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011)
1-13-2: SCOPE:
This program applies to the creation, modification and access to identifying
information of a customer of one or more of the utilities operated by the
municipality (water, wastewater, sanitation and any new utility that may be
established by the village of Heyworth) by any and all personnel of the
municipality, including management personnel. This program also applies when
the village collects, maintains, or uses SSNs affiliated with its various
departments. This program does not replace or repeal any previously existing
policies or programs addressing some or all of the activities that are the
subject of this program, but rather it is intended to supplement any such
existing policies and programs. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011)
1-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this program, the following terms have the meanings set forth,
unless the context clearly requires that the term be given a different meaning:
COVERED ACCOUNT: An account that the municipality offers or maintains,
primarily for personal, family, household purposes, or a business that is
supported from an individual person, that involves or is designed to permit
multiple payments of transactions (16 CFR 681.2(b)(3)(i)). A utility account is
a "covered account". The term "covered account" also includes other accounts
offered or maintained by the municipality for which there is a reasonably
foreseeable risk to customers the municipality or its customers from identity
theft (16 CFR 681.2(b)(3)(ii)).
IDENTIFYING INFORMATION: Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including any name, social security number, date of birth, official state or
government issued driver's license or identification number, alien registration
number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer identification number.
Additional examples of "identifying information" are set forth in 16 CFR
section 603.2(a).
IDENTITY THEFT: A fraud committed or attempted using the identifying
information of another person without authority (16 CFR sections 681.2(b)(8)
and 603.2(a)).
PUBLICLY DISPLAY: See definition of Publicly Post.
PUBLICLY POST: To intentionally communicate or otherwise intentionally make
available to the general public.
RED FLAG: A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
REDACT: To alter or truncate data so that no more than five (5) sequential
digits of an SSN are accessible as part of personal information.
Certain terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings
given to them in the FTC's identity theft rules (16 CFR part 681) or the Fair
Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (15 USC section 1681 et seq.), as amended by the
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 into law on December 4, 2003
(Public Law 108-159). (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011)
1-13-4: ADMINISTRATION OF THE PROGRAM:
   A.   Adoption And Changes: The initial adoption and approval of the identity
theft prevention program shall be by ordinance of the Village Board of
Trustees. Thereafter, changes to the program of a day to day operational
character and decisions relating to the interpretation and implementation of
the program may be made by the Village Administrator (Program Administrator).
Major changes or shifts of policy positions under the program shall require the
approval of the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011; amd. Ord.
2017-20, 4-20-2017)
   B.   Oversight: The Program Administrator shall be responsible for the
program's administration, for ensuring appropriate training of employees on the
program, for reviewing any staff reports regarding the detection of red flags
and the steps for preventing and mitigating identity theft, determining which
steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in particular circumstances,
reviewing and, if necessary, recommending changes to the program.
   C.   Staff Training And Reports: Employees responsible for implementing the
program shall be trained either by or under the direction of the Program
Administrator in the detection of red flags and the responsive steps to be
taken when a red flag is detected. Each employee responsible for implementing
the program shall sign an identity theft program acknowledgement (attached to
the ordinance codified herein). Such training and acknowledgement will be
sufficient to effectively implement the program.
   D.   Violations: The Program Administrator will be responsible for notifying
the appropriate individual of any failure of the employees in adhering to the
provisions of the program. All employees have been advised that violations of
the policies set forth herein may be grounds for disciplinary action or
dismissal. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011)
1-13-5: IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION ELEMENTS:
   A.   Identification Of Relevant Red Flags: The Municipality has considered
the guidelines and the illustrative examples of possible red flags from the
FTC's identity theft rules and has reviewed the Municipality's past history
with instances of identity theft, if any. The Municipality hereby determines
that the following are the relevant red flags for purposes of this program
given the relative size of the Municipality and the limited nature and scope of
the services that the Municipality provides to its citizens:
      1.   Notifications From Other Agencies: Alerts, notifications, or other
warnings received from other agencies or service providers.
      2.   Suspicious Documents:
         a.   Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered
or forged.
         b.   The photograph or physical description on the identification is
not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
         c.   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification.
      3.   Suspicious Identifying Information:
         a.   The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information,
such as a suspicious address change.
         b.   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party sources used
by the Municipality. For example:
            (1)   The address on an application is the same as the address
provided on a fraudulent application; or
            (2)   The phone number on an application is the same as the number
provided on a fraudulent application.
         c.   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third party
sources used by the municipality. For example:
            (1)   The billing address on an application is fictitious, a mail
drop, or a prison; or
            (2)   The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
         d.   The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
         e.   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the municipality.
         f.   If the municipality uses challenge questions, the person opening
the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information
beyond that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer
report.
      4.   Unusual Use Of Or Suspicious Activity Related To A Covered Account:
         a.   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered
account, the municipality receives a request for the addition of authorized
users on the account.
         b.   A new utility account is used in a manner commonly associated
with known fraud patterns. For example: The customer fails to make the first
payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent payments.
         c.   A covered account with a stable history shows irregularities.
         d.   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy
period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account, the
expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
         e.   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable
although usage of utility products or services continues in connection with the
customer's covered account.
         f.   The municipality is notified that the customer is not receiving
any statements.
         g.   The municipality is notified of unauthorized usage of utility
products or services in connection with a customer's covered account.
         h.   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
      5.   Notice Of Possible Identity Theft:
         a.   The municipality is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-
2011)
1-13-6: DETECTION OF RED FLAGS:
   A.   In order to detect any of the red flags identified above with the
opening of a new account, employees of the municipality will take the following
steps to obtain and verify the identity of the person opening the account:
      1.   Requiring certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, SSN, driver's license, or other identification.
      2.   Verifying the customer's identity, copying, and reviewing a driver's
license and one other identification card.
      3.   Reviewing documentation showing the existence of a business entity.
      4.   Independently contacting the customer.
   B.   In order to detect any of the red flags identified above for an
existing covered account, municipal employees will take the following steps to
monitor transactions with a covered account:
      1.   Verifying the identification of customers if they request
information (in person, via telephone, via facsimile, via e-mail).
      2.   Verifying the validity of requests to change billing addresses.
      3.   Verify change in banking information given for billing and payment
purposes. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011)
1-13-7: RESPONSE TO DETECTED RED FLAGS:
If the responsible employees of the municipality as set forth in the previous
section are unable, after making a good faith effort, to form a reasonable
belief that they know the true identity of a customer attempting to open a new
account or modify or otherwise access an existing account based on the
information and documentation provided by the customer and any third party
service provider, the municipality shall not open the new account or modify or
otherwise provide access to the existing account as the case may be.
Discrimination in respect to the opening of new accounts or the modification or
access to existing accounts will not be tolerated by employees of the
municipality and shall be grounds for immediate dismissal. The program
administrator shall establish from time to time a written policy setting forth
the steps to be taken in the event of an unresolved red flag situation.
Consideration should be given to aggravating factors that may heighten the risk
of identity theft, such as a data security incident that results in
unauthorized access to a customer's account, or a notice that a customer has
provided account information to a fraudulent individual or website. Appropriate
responses to prevent or mitigate identity theft when a red flag is detected
include:
   A.   Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft.
   B.   Contacting the customer.
   C.   Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that
permit access to a covered account.
   D.   Reopening a covered account with a new account number.
   E.   Not opening a new covered account.
   F.   Closing an existing covered account.
   G.   Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered
account to a debt collector.
   H.   Notifying law enforcement.
   I.   Determining that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011)
1-13-8: PREVENTION OF IDENTITY THEFT:
   A.   In order to further prevent the likelihood of identity theft occurring
with respect to utility accounts, the municipality will take the following
steps with respect to its internal operating procedures:
      1.   Ensure complete and secure destruction of paper documents and
computer files containing customer information, including documentation of such
destruction.
      2.   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time.
      3.   Require only the last four (4) digits of SSNs on customer
applications if an SSN is required.
      4.   Limit access to accounts to only employees that require access.
      5.   Ensure that computer screens are only visible to the employee
accessing the account.
      6.   Require customers to authenticate addresses and personal
information, rather than account representatives asking if the information is
correct. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011)
1-13-9: SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER PROTECTIONS:
Whenever an individual is asked to provide the village with an SSN, the village
shall provide that individual with a statement of the purpose or purposes for
which the village is collecting and using the SSN. The village shall also
provide the statement of purpose upon request. That statement of purpose is
attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   A.   The village shall not:
      1.   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual's SSN.
      2.   Print an individual's SSN on any card required for the individual to
access products or services provided by the person or entity.
      3.   Require an individual to transmit an SSN over the internet, unless
the connection is secure or the SSN is encrypted.
      4.   Print an individual's SSN on any materials that are mailed to the
individual, through the U.S. postal service, any private mail service,
electronic mail, or any similar method of delivery, unless state or federal law
requires the SSN to be on the document to be mailed. SSNs may be included in
applications and forms sent by mail, including, but not limited to, any
material mailed in connection with the administration of the unemployment
insurance act, any material mailed in connection with any tax administered by
the department of revenue, and documents sent as part of an application or
enrollment process or to establish, amend, or terminate an account, contract,
or policy or to confirm the accuracy of the SSN. An SSN that is permissibly
mailed will not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or other mailer
that does not require an envelope or be visible on an envelope without the
envelope having been opened.
   B.   In addition, the village shall not:
      1.   Use Social Security Number: Collect, use, or disclose an SSN from an
individual, unless:
         a.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules, or
regulations, or the collection, use, or disclosure of the SSN is otherwise
necessary for the performance of the village's duties and responsibilities;
         b.   The need and purpose for the SSN is documented before collection
of the SSN; and
         c.   The SSN collected is relevant to the documented need and purpose.
      2.   Require To Access Internet: Require an individual to use his or her
SSN to access an internet website.
      3.   Purpose: Use the SSN for any purpose other than the purpose for
which it was collected.
      4.   Exemptions:
         a.   These prohibitions set forth in this section do not apply in the
following circumstances:
            (1)   The disclosure of SSNs to agents, employees, contractors, or
subcontractors of a governmental entity or disclosure by a governmental entity
to another governmental entity or its agents, employees, contractors, or
subcontractors if disclosure is necessary in order for the entity to perform
its duties and responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a contractor or
subcontractor, prior to such disclosure, the governmental entity must first
receive from the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the contractor's or
subcontractor's policy that sets forth how the requirements imposed under this
act on a governmental entity to protect an individual's SSN will be achieved.
            (2)   The disclosure of SSNs pursuant to a court order, warrant, or
subpoena.
            (3)   The collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs in order to ensure
the safety of: state and local government employees; persons committed to
correctional facilities, local jails, and other law enforcement facilities or
retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in or visiting a
state or local government agency facility.
            (4)   The collection, use, or disclosure of SSNs for internal
verification or administrative purposes.
            (5)   The disclosure of SSNs by a state agency to any entity for
the collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or to a
governmental agency to assist with an investigation or the prevention of fraud.
            (6)   The collection or use of SSNs to investigate or prevent
fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a credit
report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal fair credit reporting
act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under the federal
Gramm Leach Bliley act, or to locate a missing person, a lost relative, or a
person who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an unclaimed property
benefit.
   C.   Requirement To Redact Social Security Numbers: The village shall comply
with the provisions of any other state law with respect to allowing the public
inspection and copying of information or documents containing all or any
portion of an individual's SSN. The village shall redact SSNs from the
information or documents before allowing the public inspection or copying of
the information or documents.
When collecting SSNs, the village shall request each SSN in a manner that makes
the SSN easily redacted if required to be released as part of a public records
request.
   D.   Employee Access To Social Security Numbers: Only employees who are
required to use or handle information or documents that contain SSNs will have
access. All employees who have access to SSNs are trained to protect the
confidentiality of SSNs. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-2-2011)
1-13-10: PROGRAM UPDATES; RISK ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Updating Of Program: The program, including relevant red flags, is to
be updated or reviewed as often as necessary but at least annually to reflect
changes in risks to customers from identity theft. Factors to consider in the
program update include:
      1.   An assessment of the risk factors identified above.
      2.   Any identified red flag weaknesses in associated account systems or
procedures.
      3.   Changes in methods of identity theft.
      4.   Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft.
      5.   Changes in business arrangements, including mergers, acquisitions,
alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.
   B.   Training And Oversight: All staff and third party service providers
performing any activity in connection with one or more covered accounts are to
be provided appropriate training and receive effective oversight to ensure that
the activity is conducted in accordance with policies and procedures designed
to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. (Ord. 2011-17, 5-
2-2011)
1-13-11: OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS:
Awareness of the following related legal requirements should be maintained:
   A.   31 USC 5318 (g), reporting of suspicious activities.
   B.   15 USC 1681 c-1 (h), identity theft prevention; fraud alerts and active
duty alerts - limitations on use of information for credit extensions.
   C.   15 USC 1681 s-2, responsibilities of furnishers of information to
consumer reporting agencies.
   D.   15 USC 1681 m, requirements on use of consumer reports. (Ord. 2011-17,
5-2-2011)
CHAPTER 14
FAIR HOUSING POLICY
SECTION:
1-14-1: Declaration
1-14-2: Definitions
1-14-3: Prohibited Acts
1-14-4: Penalty
1-14-1: DECLARATION:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the state of Illinois as expressed in its
constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all
residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful,
standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the village, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons, such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability in the
conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 2011-28,
7-5-2011)
1-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meaning as described in this section and as used in this
chapter:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE OR DISCRIMINATION: Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 2011-28, 7-5-
2011)
1-14-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee, real
estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the financial
institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange, or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the village:
   A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the price
terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale, rental,
lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the village
or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or disability of any person.
   C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   D.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
   F.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
   G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national
origin, or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant. (Ord. 2011-28, 7-5-2011)
1-14-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way
abrogate or impair the right of the village to specifically enforce, by any
legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-28, 7-5-2011)
CHAPTER 15
RESERVED
[Reserved by Ord. 2024-63, 12-5-2024.]
 
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created; Members And Terms Of Office
2-1-2: Appointment; Chair
2-1-3: Powers And Duties
2-1-4: Reserved Authority Of Board Of Trustees
2-1-5: Administrative Public Hearings
2-1-6: Compensation
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERS AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
A zoning board of appeals is hereby created. The zoning board of appeals shall
consist of seven (7) members who shall serve for a term of five (5) years;
provided, that the members first appointed after the effective date hereof
shall serve terms as follows: one shall serve a term of one year; one for two
(2) years; one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years; one for five (5)
years; one for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years; the successor to
each member so appointed to serve a term of five (5) years 1 . (Ord. 2009-38,
4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.
2-1-2: APPOINTMENT; CHAIR:
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, shall appoint
the members of the zoning board of appeals. One of the members so appointed
shall be named as chair by the mayor at the time of his appointment. (Ord.
2009-38, 4-6-2009)
2-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General Powers And Duties: Members of the zoning board of appeals shall
have the powers and duties assigned to the zoning board of appeals by state
statute, per the ordinances adopted by the village board of trustees, and as
follows:
      1.   To conduct administrative public hearings, make findings of fact,
and decide duly initiated appeals from any administrative order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the administrative officer pertaining to
conformance with requirements of the zoning ordinance, title 11 of this code.
      2.   To conduct administrative public hearings, make findings of fact and
decide variations from the terms provided in the zoning ordinance, title 11 of
this code.
      3.   To hear and decide all matters referred thereto or upon which it is
required to pass under the zoning ordinance, title 11 of this code, and other
ordinances of the village.
      4.   To publish notices of public hearings, and to hold such hearings, as
required by the applicable statutes of the state, pertaining to proposed
amendments to the regulations imposed and the districts created by the zoning
ordinance, title 11 of this code, and to proposed conditional or special uses
as established in the zoning ordinance.
      5.   To make a written findings of fact and recommendations to the
village board of trustees on any such proposed amendments, proposed special or
conditional uses, or proposed variances.
   B.   Specific Powers And Duties: The zoning board of appeals also has the
powers and duties as specifically provided by the ordinances and resolutions
adopted by the village board of trustees. (Ord. 2009-38, 4-6-2009)
2-1-4: RESERVED AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The village board of trustees hereby expressly reserves the authority to
approve, by ordinance, requests for zoning amendments, zoning variances and
special uses of the zoning board of appeals and all other decisions permitted
by the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 2009-38, 4-6-2009)
2-1-5: ADMINISTRATIVE PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   A.   Public Hearing Provisions:
      1.   Open To Public: All meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be
open to the public. For the purpose of this section, a meeting shall constitute
a gathering of the zoning board of appeals to conduct business on any single
topic or any multiple topics requested to be reviewed of the board.
      2.   Time And Location: All meetings shall be held at the call of the
chair and at such times and places as the zoning board of appeals may
determine.
      3.   Quorum: No meetings may be conducted without a quorum of the board
being present. A quorum shall consist of a majority of all the members of the
board.
      4.   Notices:
         a.   Legal Notice: Legal notice of an administrative public hearing
shall be given not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days before
said hearing by publishing a notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village.
         b.   Courtesy Notices: Courtesy notices may be mailed to the owners of
land adjacent to the parcel on which action is proposed.
      5.   Parties: The applicant, the village and a person filing a written
entry of appearance is a party to an administrative public hearing procedure.
      6.   Appearance Of Others: Any person may appear and testify at an
administrative public hearing, either in person or by a duly authorized agent
or attorney.
      7.   Oaths Or Affirmations: The chair, or in his absence, the acting
chair, may administer oaths or affirmations.
      8.   Compelling Attendance Of Witnesses: The chair, or in his absence,
the acting chair, may compel the attendance of witnesses by mailing to such
persons a notice compelling attendance, not less than five (5) days before the
public hearing. Failure of a person to appear in response to such a notice
shall constitute a violation of the zoning ordinance, title 11 of this code.
      9.   Record Of Meetings: The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and
other official actions.
   B.   Procedures: All procedures of public hearings will conform to the
authority of the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 2009-38, 4-6-2009)
2-1-6: COMPENSATION:
Pursuant to the power granted by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-3, the
compensation of the members of the zoning board of appeals is twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per meeting, effective upon the first meeting occurring
following the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2009-38, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 2
COMMITTEES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Special Committees
2-2-2: Community Based Committees
2-2-1: SPECIAL COMMITTEES:
   A.   Creation; Dissolution: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees, may, by ordinance, create or dissolve any special committees
deemed necessary and in the best interest of the village.
   B.   Appointment; Chair: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the board
of trustees, shall appoint the members of special committees and shall
designate the chair of each committee.
   C.   Authority And Duties: The primary function of special committees is one
of policy recommendation. The actual administration of a particular municipal
activity or department remains the responsibility of the administrative
official in charge thereof. Said committees shall conduct investigations, make
detailed studies of pending proposals, submit recommendations to the board of
trustees for official action, or any other authority prescribed by the board of
trustees.
   D.   Meetings: Each special committee shall hold such public meetings as may
be necessary to attend to all matters referred to such committee. The time and
place of all public meetings shall be determined by the chair of each special
committee. Special meetings of each special committee may be called at any time
by the chair or any two (2) members of each special committee. Public notice of
committee meetings shall be given in accordance with the open meetings act.
(Ord. 2009-51, 5-4-2009)
2-2-2: COMMUNITY BASED COMMITTEES:
   A.   Creation; Dissolution: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees, may, by ordinance, create or dissolve any community based
committees deemed necessary and in the best interests of the village.
   B.   Appointment; Chair: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the board
of trustees, shall appoint the members of community based committees which
shall consist of community leaders. The number of members of each community
based committee shall be determined on a case by case basis. The community
based committee members shall designate a chair of that committee at the first
meeting held by that committee.
   C.   Authority And Duties: Community based committees shall coordinate all
state and federal economic programs that are applicable to the village except
where otherwise prohibited by federal law or any other authority prescribed by
ordinance.
   D.   Meetings: Each community based committee shall hold such public
meetings as may be necessary to attend to all matters referred to such
committee. The time and place of all public meetings shall be determined by the
chair of each community based committee. Special meetings of each community
based committee may be called at any time by the chair or any two (2) members
of each community based committee. Public notice of committee meetings shall be
given in accordance with the open meetings act. (Ord. 2009-34, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: State Statutes Adopted
2-3-2: Membership; Residency
2-3-3: Appointment And Terms
2-3-4: Compensation
2-3-5: Organization
2-3-6: Powers
2-3-7: Expenditures
2-3-8: Cooperation With Other Agencies
2-3-1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED:
The Village hereby adopts all the provisions of division 12, Plan Commissions,
of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, specifically 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-12-4 et seq., and in the furtherance thereof, the provisions of this
chapter are set forth. (Ord. 2016-42, 10-20-2016)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP; RESIDENCY:
The initial membership of the commission shall consist of seven (7) members who
shall reside within the Village, or within territory contiguous to the Village
and not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and
not within any other municipality. The number of members may be amended by
action of the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2016-42, 10-20-2016)
2-3-3: APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
Members of the commission shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the Board of Trustees. The terms of the members shall be set
forth in the ordinance appointing such members. (Ord. 2016-42, 10-20-2016)
2-3-4: COMPENSATION:
All members of the commission shall serve without compensation except for
reimbursement of costs or expenses incurred by the individual members in the
course of their duties. (Ord. 2016-42, 10-20-2016)
2-3-5: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers And Bylaws: Members of the commission shall elect a Chair and
Secretary within their group. The members of the commission may adopt such
bylaws or procedures as they deem appropriate. The Chair shall be in charge of
all meetings, designating such duties and activities as he shall determine; the
Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the commission, its records
and files. The bylaws may provide for other officers as the commission deems
necessary and appropriate.
   B.   Records: Immediately following their appointment, the members of the
Planning Commission shall meet, organize, and elect the officers as aforesaid.
The Secretary or other designated member(s) shall obtain and provide copies
from the Village of all minutes, financial audits and reports, and other
appropriate documents and reports of all committees of the Board of Trustees,
and all matters relating to: the administration of the Water and Sewer
Department; streets, alleys and public utilities; zoning; subdivisions; real
estate and general administration.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the Planning Commission shall be subject
to the provisions of the Open Meetings Act of the State of Illinois 1
including the requirements of all meetings being open to the public, being
properly posted, and minutes to be taken. (Ord. 2016-42, 10-20-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-3-6: POWERS:
The Planning Commission shall have all of the powers set forth in the statute
referenced in this Code and as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
12-5. No official comprehensive plan or official map, or all or any part of the
area within the purview of the commission, shall be adopted by the Board of
Trustees until notice and a public hearing has been held. All public hearings
shall require not less than fifteen (15) days' notice of the proposed hearing
by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the Village. Proposals
of the commission are advisory only until adopted by ordinance of the Village
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2016-42, 10-20-2016)
2-3-7: EXPENDITURES:
The commission may from time to time request financial assistance of the
Village Board of Trustees for specific costs or paid secretarial assistance.
Expenses cannot be authorized without the prior approval of the Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 2016-42, 10-20-2016)
2-3-8: COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES:
The commission shall coordinate and obtain information and recommendations
from, when appropriate, the County Plan Commission and the Planning Commission
of Randolph Township, together with seeking advice and suggestions from all
other taxing bodies of the Village and the township. (Ord. 2016-42, 10-20-2016)
CHAPTER 4
PARK AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Committee Created; Appointments; Removal
2-4-2: Appointment Of Chairperson
2-4-3: Meetings Of The Committee
2-4-4: Powers And Duties
2-4-5: Recommendations Of Committee
2-4-1: COMMITTEE CREATED; APPOINTMENTS; REMOVAL:
There is hereby created the Park and Recreation Advisory Committee which shall
consist of seven (7) members appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees. The terms of office of the members of the Park and
Recreation Advisory Committee members first appointed shall serve terms as
follows: three (3) members shall be appointed for two (2) years, and three (3)
members shall be appointed for three (3) years. Thereafter, appointments shall
be for three (3) year terms. Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment of the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees for the remainder of
the unexpired term. One member of the Committee shall be the chair of the Parks
and Recreation Committee, or its successor committee, of the Village Board of
Trustees. All members shall be residents of the Village of Heyworth. (Ord.
2023-22, 4-20-2023)
2-4-2: APPOINTMENT OF CHAIRPERSON:
The Chairperson of the Park and Recreation Advisory Committee shall be
designated by the members of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee for a
term of one (1) year. (Ord. 2023-22, 4-20-2023)
2-4-3: MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE:
The Park and Recreation Advisory Committee shall meet as needed but no less
than once a year. A quorum of the Committee is four (4) members. All meetings
of the Committee must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the
Illinois Open Meetings Act. The Committee shall keep current, accurate minutes
of its proceedings. (Ord. 2023-22, 4-20-2023)
2-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Park and Recreation Advisory Committee shall serve as an advisory
committee, making recommendations to the Village Board for the following park
and recreational items:
   A.   Park master planning: Help create, and thereafter at least annually,
review and make recommendations for updates to the Parks Master Plan for the
Village.
   B.   Budget, financial, and strategic planning: Make long-term, strategic
recommendations regarding park land and recreation programs as well as short-
term recommendations on specific matters for the Park and Recreation Department
and special events budget, including existing and proposed park facilities for
the purpose of identifying appropriate improvements, expansions, and
renovations.
   Recreation Department on matters related to the development and operation of
recreation programs, playgrounds, facilities, and parks, and to make such
recommendations with regard to such matters as the Board determines are
necessary and desirable, including, but not limited to, reviewing annually
those portions of this Code related to parks and recreation and to recommend to
the Board of Trustees any appropriate changes thereto.
   D.   Fee structures: Review, from time-to-time, fee structures related to
the Parks and Recreation operations of the Village.
   E.   Volunteer procurement and coordination and resident communications:
Serve, from time to time, as a liaison between residents and the Board of
Trustees in order to communicate residents’ opinions, needs, desires, and
interests related to parks and recreation. In addition, create, subject to the
approval of the Board of Trustees, and maintain a communication plan for both
internal and external communications; to survey residents about current
recreational programs and additional programs needed and to make
recommendations for future recreational facilities.
   F.   Communication with the Village Administration, Parks Committee, and
Village Board: Meet with members of the Village Administration, Parks &
Recreation Standing Committee, and Board of Trustees and discuss issues related
to parks and recreation, and to have a Park and Recreation Advisory Committee
representative attend meetings of the Parks & Recreation Standing Committee and
Board of Trustees, or as otherwise appropriate, to give updates of the
activities of the Park and Recreation Advisory Committee as well as assist in
carrying out other matters requested by the Village Administration and Village
Board related to Parks and Recreation.
   G.   Other matters as directed by the Village Board. (Ord. 2023-22, 4-20-
2023)
2-4-5: RECOMMENDATIONS OF COMMITTEE:
The Park and Recreation Advisory Committee shall communicate all formal
recommendations and concerns of the Committee to the Board of Trustees in
writing. (Ord. 2023-22, 4-20-2023)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Budget Officer; Annual Budget
3-1-2: Publication Costs
3-1-3: Fee For Dishonored Checks
3-1-4: Investment Policy
3-1-5: Capital Improvement Program Policy
3-1-6: Debt Management Policy
3-1-1: BUDGET OFFICER; ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   Budget Officer: The Budget Officer shall be as designated in title 1,
chapter 8, article J of this Code.
   B.   Annual Budget:
      1.   Budget Adopted: For such period as this section shall remain in
effect, the Village Board of Trustees shall adopt the annual budget as prepared
by the Budget Officer in the manner provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-2-9.4. Such adoption of an annual budget shall be in lieu of passage of the
Appropriation Ordinance as provided for therein.
      2.   Revisions To Budget: It is hereby delegated to the heads of the
Village departments, boards or commissions the power to delete, add to, change
or create subclasses within object classes previously budgeted to the
department, board or commission as provided in this section. Such modifications
to the object classes previously budgeted shall be subject to prior approval by
the Village Treasurer and the Village Administrator. Any such revision shall be
subject to revision or nullification by the Village Board of Trustees as
provided in section 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.6. (Ord. 2009-74, 5-
18-2009)
3-1-2: PUBLICATION COSTS:
   A.   Review Of Current Fees: All fees of every kind and nature, including
permits, shall be reviewed by a committee designated by the Mayor to determine
if the same should be amended to cover costs of publication.
   B.   Responsibility For Publication Costs: All fees, charges, and costs
requiring payment by an applicant or petitioner shall remain the same at this
time; except, that the payment shall be for administrative costs of the Village
alone, and that publications in a public newspaper shall be at the expense of
the petitioner or applicant. All such public notices are to be authorized by
the Village Board and directed to the Village Clerk or Village Treasurer to
submit the notice to a newspaper. The applicant then has the full
responsibility to see to the payment of the publication fees prior to the time
of said meeting or hearing on the subject matter. (Ord. 2009-74, 5-18-2009)
3-1-3: FEE FOR DISHONORED CHECKS:
Whenever a check payable to the Village is tendered for the payment of fees,
charges or any other sum due the Village and is dishonored by a financial
institution upon which it is drawn because of insufficient funds in the account
against which it was drawn, or any other lawful reason, a processing charge of
forty dollars ($40.00) shall be imposed by the Village and added to the fee,
charge or other sum due the Village and thereon shall be due and payable as any
other delinquency. (Ord. 2018-20, 4-19-2018)
3-1-4: INVESTMENT POLICY:
   A.   Policy Adopted: It is the policy of the Village of Heyworth, Illinois,
to invest public funds in a manner which will provide the highest investment
return with the maximum security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of
the Village and conforming to all Federal, State and local Statutes governing
the investment of public funds.
   B.   Scope: This policy includes all funds governed by the Village Board of
Trustees of Heyworth.
   C.   Prudence: Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived.
The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be the
"prudent person" standard, when applicable and when not prevented by law, and
shall be applied in the context of managing an overall portfolio.
Investment officers acting in accordance with written procedures and the
investment policy and exercising due diligence shall be relieved of personal
responsibility for an individual security's credit risk or market price
changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a timely fashion
and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.
   D.   Objectives: The primary objectives of investments, in order of
priority, shall be:
      1.   Legality: Conformance with Federal, State, and other legal
requirements.
      2.   Safety: Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal.
      3.   Liquidity: Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements.
      4.   Return On Investment: Attainment of market rates of return.
The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness in
meeting the Village's needs for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance.
   E.   Delegation Of Authority: Management and administrative responsibility
for the investment program is hereby delegated to the Village Treasurer who,
under the delegation of the Village Board of Trustees, shall establish
procedures for the operation of the investment program.
   F.   Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest: Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
   G.   Authorized Financial Dealers And Institutions: The Treasurer will
maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
   H.   Authorized And Suitable Investments: Investments may be made in any
type of security allowed for in Illinois Statutes regarding the investment of
public funds. Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the
fund type being invested.
   I.   Collateralization: Funds on deposit (i.e., checking accounts,
certificates of deposit, etc.) in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some
form of collateral.
   J.   Safekeeping And Custody: All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the Village shall be
conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
the Treasurer.
   K.   Diversification: The Village shall diversify its investments to the
best of its ability based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs
of those funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of
institutions invested in, and length of maturity.
   L.   Maximum Maturities: To the extent possible, the Village shall attempt
to match its investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless
matched to a specific cash flow, the Village shall not directly invest in
securities maturing more than three (3) years from the date of purchase.
Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding three (3) years if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practical with
the expected use of the funds.
   M.   Internal Control: The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of
the entity are protected from loss, theft, or misuse. The internal control
structure shall be designated to provide reasonable assurance that these
objectives are met. The internal controls shall address the following points:
      1.   Control of collusion;
      2.   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      3.   Custodial safekeeping; and
      4.   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
   N.   Performance Standards: This investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio
should obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment
of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to
benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity and credit quality as the
portfolio. Such benchmarks will include comparable maturities of U.S. Treasury
bills or notes, an Illinois Public Treasurers' Investment Pool (”Illinois
Funds”) investment, and any other investments allowed under State law that
satisfy the investment objectives of the Village.
   O.   Reporting: The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
quarterly. The report should be provided to the Village Board of Trustees and
administration and be available upon request. The report should be in a format
suitable for review by the general public.
   P.   Exemptions: Any investment currently held that does not meet the
guidelines of this policy shall be exempted from the requirements of this
policy. At maturity or liquidation, such monies shall be reinvested only as
provided for by this policy.
   Q.   Exceptions: Any exception to this policy shall be reported immediately
to the Mayor and Village Clerk in writing and shall be reported to the Board of
Trustees at the next regularly scheduled Village Board of Trustees' meeting.
   R.   Review And Amendment Of Policy: This policy shall be reviewed on an
annual basis by the Treasurer and any modifications made hereto must be
approved by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2018-19, 4-19-2018; amd. Ord.
2021-23, 4-15-2021)
3-1-5: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The Village of Heyworth hereby develops this Capital
Improvement Program (“CIP”) to help ensure the Village’s credit worthiness and
to provide a functional tool and comprehensive guidelines for capital planning.
   B.   Period Covered by the CIP: The Village shall prepare a five-year CIP
for each department that should be updated and adopted annually by the Village
Board.
   C.   Eligible Types of Capital Improvements and Assets: Capital improvements
and assets that can be included in the CIP are those that can have a useful
life of three years or longer and a cost exceeding $5,000, which may include,
but is not limited to:
      1.   Rehabilitation and/or replacement of existing infrastructure,
facilities, and properties owned and operated by the Village.
      2.   Reconstruction of the infrastructure, facilities and property owned
by the Village.
      3.   Construction of new infrastructure, facilities and properties of the
Village if financially, economically and practically justified.
      4.   Acquisition of land for such infrastructure.
      5.   Equipment and vehicles of the Village.
   D.   Cost Considerations for the CIP: The following costs and considerations
should be considered and may be included in the CIP:
      1.   The costs needed for adequate and timely maintenance, repair,
restoration, and modernization of current physical assets.
      2.   Installation of new infrastructure and capital assets.
      3.   Funding the replacement reserve for capital assets (infrastructure,
facilities, properties, and equipment and vehicles) should be included in the
annual budget and CIP.
      4.   Future operation costs of all CIP projects.
      5.   Feasibility studies, land, engineering, architectural design, and
contract services needed to complete the project.
   E.   Preparation of the CIP: The Budget Officer, with the assistance of each
department head, the Treasurer, and the Village Administrator shall prepare the
CIP for presentation to the Village Board for approval, including providing
recommendation to the Village Board as to the recommended project(s) for the
upcoming fiscal year.
   F.   Financing CIP expenses: The following funding options will be
considered for CIP expenses in compliance and consideration of other monetary
policies of the Village:
      1.   Available and undedicated relevant capital improvement funds in the
annual budget. The Village shall annually review the capital improvement rates
for each capital improvement fund.
      2.   Relevant enterprise fund assets.
      3.   Tax-Increment Financing (TIF) assets to the appropriate funding
levels per law.
      4.   Business Development District (BDD) assets within the BDD area(s)
and per law.
      5.   General Fund available funds.
      6.   Debt issuances with debt service considerations per the Debt
Management Policy of the Village.
      7.   Private-public partnerships.
      8.   Federal, State and/or Local Grants.
   G.   Debt Issuances and Borrowing Limits. CIP expenses financed through debt
issuances or borrowing will be financed for a period not to exceed the useful
life of the improvement. Long-term can be incurred only if all technical
specifications for the project, including permits and licenses, already have
been obtained. Borrowing should comply with the Debt Management Policy of the
Village and shall adhere to all local, state and federal laws.
   H.   Prioritization of Project: Criteria for determining priorities in the
CIP will be developed by the Village Administrator with coordination of the
Department Heads, Budget Officer and the Village Board. Minimally, priority
shall first be given to failing infrastructure or assets and maintenance of
existing assets or improvements.
   I.   Public Participation: The Village Administration will develop and
implement public participation tools for involvement and consideration of the
public in CIP projects. (Ord. 2018-21, 4-19-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-44, 9-19-2023)
3-1-6: DEBT MANAGEMENT POLICY:
   A.   Purpose: The Village of Heyworth hereby develops this Debt Management
Policy to help ensure the Village's credit worthiness and to provide a
functional tool and comprehensive guidelines for debt management and capital
planning.
   B.   Goals And Objectives: It is the objective of the Village to maintain a
fiscally sound debt position and maintain and improve the credit quality of the
Village.
In following this policy, the Village shall pursue the following specific
goals:
      1.   Avoid taking on debt whenever possible.
      2.   Maintain the highest credit rating to the extent possible for all
debt at the time of issue so borrowing costs are minimized and access to credit
is preserved.
      3.   Take all practical precautions to avoid any financial decision that
will negatively impact current credit ratings on existing or future debt
issues.
      4.   Adhere to the Capital Improvement Program (CIP) so as to plan for
major capital infrastructure expenditures.
      5.   Reserve available funds for major capital projects per the CIP.
      6.   Maintain the ability to incur present and future debt at minimal
interest rates in amounts needed for infrastructure and economic development
without endangering the ability to finance essential services.
      7.   Effectively utilize debt capacity in relation to Village growth and
the tax base or utility rate base to manage debt in line with available
resources.
      8.   Establish reasonable debt level targets that recognize projected
inflation and planned capital needs.
      9.   Consider market timing.
      10.   Determine the amortization (maturity) schedule that will best fit
with the overall debt structure of the Village's general obligation debt and
related tax levy at the time the new debt is issued. For issuance of revenue
bonds, the amortization schedule that will best fit with the overall debt
structure of the fund and its related rate structure will be considered.
Consideration will be given to coordinating the length of the issue with the
lives of assets, whenever practical, while considering repair and replacement
costs of those assets to be incurred in future years as an offset to the useful
lives, and the related length of time in the payout structure.
      11.   Consider the impact of such new debt on overlapping debt and the
financing plans of the Village.
      12.   Seek opportunities to finance debt service for general obligation
debt with revenues other than Property Taxes.
      13.   Consider opportunities such as refinancing or restructuring of
general obligation debt which reduce existing debt service.
      14.   Assess financial alternatives to include new and innovative
financing approaches, including whenever feasible, categorical grants,
revolving loans or other State/Federal aid.
   C.   Legal Constraints: In the issuance and management of debt, the Village
shall comply with the Illinois Compiled Statutes and all other legal
requirements imposed by Federal, State and local rules and regulations, as
applicable. The following section highlights the legal framework of the debt
issuance process:
      1.   Illinois State Compiled Statutes: 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 305/
0.01, et seq.; the short title is the BOND AUTHORIZATION ACT.
      2.   Authority For Debt: The Village may, by Bond Ordinance, incur
indebtedness or borrow money, and authorize the issue of negotiable
obligations, including refunding bonds, for any capital improvement of
property, land acquisition, or any other lawful purpose except current
expenses, unless approved by the Village Board.
      3.   Debt Limitation: Under the Illinois Compiled Statutes, the Village's
general obligation bonded debt issuances are subject to a legal limitation
based on 8.625 percent of the equalized assessed value of real estate property.
As a non-home-rule Municipality, the Village is subject to the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-4-1 which provides that bonds may not be issued
until the authority to issue these bonds has been approved by a majority of the
voters. A general exception in section 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-5-16
provides that non-home rule municipalities may issue general obligation bonds
without referendum up to the total outstanding amount not to exceed one-half of
one percent (1/2%) of equalized assessed value.
      4.   BINA Notification: Municipalities preparing to issue non- referendum
general obligation bonds, including alternate bonds or limited bonds, must
comply with the notice and hearing requirements of the Bond Issue Notification
Act (BINA) per 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 352/1 et seq.
      5.   Types Of Debt:
         a.   General Obligation Referendum Bonds: General obligation
referendum approved bonds are secured by the Property Taxes levied for their
discharge. The Village is authorized to issue these bonds if approved by the
voters under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-4-1.
         b.   General Obligation Non-Referendum Bonds: General obligation non-
referendum bonds (limited) are general obligation bonds that are issued without
referendum. Limited bonds are secured by the Property Taxes levied for their
discharge. The Village is currently authorized to issue general obligation non-
referendum bonds up to a limit of one-half of one percent (1/2%) of the current
equalized assessed valuation without voter approval under section 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-5-16.
         c.   Alternate Revenue Source Bonds: General obligation alternate
revenue source bonds are not subject to the legal debt limitations but are
secured with pledged revenues other than general Property Taxes with a Property
Tax levy pledged as a secondary security and issued in accordance with section
30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350/15.
The Village may seek to finance the capital needs of governmental activities
through the issuance of alternate revenue source debt obligations. These debt
obligations are payable from various limited revenue sources including
Enterprise Funds, Tax-Increment Financing Funds, and Business Development
District Funds. Revenue sources pledged for Enterprise Funds include water and
sewer revenues. The Village may only pledge up to twenty five percent (25%) of
the annual revenue received for debt service and maintain a minimum debt
service coverage ratio of one hundred twenty five percent (125%).
Prior to issuing alternate revenue source debt obligations, the Treasurer and
Village Administrator, with assistance from an independent financial advisor as
needed, will develop financial plans and projections showing the feasibility of
the planned financing, required rates and charges needed to support the planned
financing and the impact of the planned financing on rate payers, property
owners and the other affected parties. On an annual basis, the Village will
review the percent of revenue stream that is pledged for repayment of debt for
compliance with Village limitations. If it is not feasible to issue an
alternative revenue obligation, then a revenue-secured debt obligation should
be considered.
         d.   Debt Certificates: Debt Certificates may be issued by the Village
to evidence the payment obligation of the Village under an installment contract
or lease. Debt certificates are counted in the legal debt limit but not subject
to voter approval in accordance with 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350/17(b).
         e.   Lease/Installment Contracts: The Village may enter into long-
term lease/installment obligations for the purchase of real or personal
property. Lease/installment contracts are counted towards the legal debt limit
in accordance with 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350/17(a).
   D.   Debt Issuance Practices:
      1.   Authority And Purposes Of The Issuance Of Debt: The laws of the
State of Illinois authorize the issuance of debt by the Village. The Local Bond
Laws confer upon municipalities the power and authority to contract debt,
borrow money, and issue bonds for public improvement projects as therein
defined. Under these provisions, the Village may contract debt to pay for the
cost of acquiring, constructing, reconstructing, improving, extending,
enlarging, and equipping such projects or to refund bonds.
      2.   Debt Issuances Types:
         a.   Short-Term Debt (3 Years Or Less): The Village may issue short-
term debt which may include, but is not limited to, bond anticipation notes or
variable rate demand notes and those instruments that allow the Village to meet
cash flow requirements or provide increased flexibility in financing programs.
         b.   Long-Term Debt (More Than 3 Years): The Village may issue long-
term debt which may include, but is not limited to, general obligation bonds,
debt certificates, capital appreciation bonds, special assessment bonds, self-
liquidating bonds and double- barreled bonds. The Village may also enter into
long-term leases for public facilities, property, and equipment with a useful
life greater than one year.
      3.   Structure Of Debt Issuances: The duration of a debt issue shall not
exceed the economic or useful life of the improvement or asset that the issue
is financing. Each new bond issue should be structured to be callable in ten
(10) years. The Village shall design the financing schedule and repayment of
debt so as to take best advantage of market conditions, and, as practical, to
recapture or maximize its credit capacity for future use and moderate the
impact to the taxpayer.
      4.   Sale Of Securities: When feasible and economical, debt issues should
be sold through a competitive bidding process based upon the lowest offered
true interest cost (TIC), unless the Village Board deems a negotiated sale the
most advantageous to the Village. A sale may be more appropriate to be
negotiated when the issue is predominantly a refunding issue or in other non-
routine situations that require more flexibility than a competitive offer
allows.
When cost beneficial, the Village may also privately place its debt. Since no
underwriter participates in a private placement, it may result in lower costs
of issuance. Private placement is sometimes an option for small issues.
      5.   Markets: The Village shall make use of domestic capital markets when
the conditions best fit the Village's financing needs.
      6.   Credit Enhancements: The Village may enter into agreements with
commercial banks or other financial entities for the purpose of acquiring
letters of credit, Municipal bond insurance, or other credit enhancements that
will provide the Village with access to credit under terms and conditions as
specified in such agreements when their use is judged cost effective or
otherwise advantageous. Any such agreements shall be approved by the Village
Board.
      7.   Methods Of Sale: All bonds shall be sold at a public sale via sealed
proposal or live auction, except that bonds may be sold at a private sale in
accordance with 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes 350/10. The Village may issue
temporary notes by negotiated sale if the Bond Ordinance or subsequent
resolution so provides.
         a.   Direct Debt, Including Bonds And Certificates: All direct debt
obligations will mature within the period or average period of usefulness of
the assets financed; and the debt will mature in installments, the first of
which is payable not more than five (5) years from the date of the issue. Term
debt may be allowable if recommended by the Village's financial advisor, in
lieu of a fixed maturity schedule, and approved by the Village Board.
         b.   Financial Advisor: As a matter of independence, the financial
advisor will not bid on nor underwrite any Village debt issues on which it is
advising.
         c.   Negotiated Sales: The criteria used to select an underwriter in a
negotiated sale should include the following:
            (1)   Overall experience;
            (2)   Marketing philosophy;
            (3)   Capability;
            (4)   Previous experience as managing a co-managing partner;
            (5)   Financial statements;
            (6)   Public finance team and resources;
            (7)   Underwriter's discount.
      8.   Credit Implications: When issuing new debt, the Village should
strive to not exceed credit industry benchmarks where applicable. Therefore,
the following factors should be considered in developing debt issuance plans:
         a.   Ratio Of Net Bonded Debt To Equalized Assessed Value: The formula
for this computation is net bonded debt, which is the total outstanding debt
from the General Fund, divided by the current equalized assessed value as
determined by the Township Assessor(s). The Village should not exceed four
percent (4%) of net bonded debt.
 
Current Ceiling
0.29    4.00
($128,856/$45,046,072)
 
         b.   Net Bonded Debt Per Capita: The formula for this computation is
net bonded debt divided by the current population as determined by the most
recent census information available. The Village should not exceed two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) of net bonded debt per capita.
 
Current Ceiling
$42.51  $2,000.00
($128,856/3,031)
 
         c.   Ratio Of Net Bonded Debt To Personalized Income: The formula for
this computation is net bonded debt divided by the current personal income as
determined by the most recent census information available. The Village should
not exceed four percent (4%) of net bonded debt to personalized income.
 
Current Ceiling
1.77    4.00
($128,856/$72,727)
 
         d.   Ratio Of Annual Debt Service To General Fund Expenditures: The
formula for this computation is annual general debt service expenditures from
the General Fund divided by General Fund expenditures (excluding certain
interfund transfers). The Village should not exceed ten percent (10%) of
General Fund expenditures for annual debt service.
 
Current Ceiling
1.67    10.00
($18,421/$1,105,826)
 
Total indebtedness including direct and overlapping debt will be analyzed in
determining financial condition.
   E.   Debt Management:
      1.   Financial Disclosures: The Village shall prepare appropriate
disclosures as required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal
government, the State of Illinois, rating agencies, underwriters, investors,
agencies, taxpayers, and other appropriate entities and persons to ensure
compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Treasurer will be
responsible for coordinating the submission of the annual disclosure required
in accordance with SEC Rule 15c2-12 to the Municipal Securities Rulemaking
Board (MSRB) within one hundred eighty (180) days after the end of the fiscal
year.
      2.   Review Of Financing Proposals: All capital financing proposals that
involve a pledge of the Village's credit through the sale of securities,
execution of loans or lease agreements and/or otherwise directly involve the
lending or pledging of the Village's credit shall be referred to the Treasurer
and Village Administrator who shall determine the financial feasibility, and
the impact on existing debt of such proposal, and shall make recommendations
accordingly to the Village Board.
      3.   Investment Of Bond Proceeds: The Village will invest bond proceeds
in accordance with the Village's Investment Policy.
      4.   Establishing Financing Priorities: The Treasurer and Village
Administrator shall administer and coordinate the Village's debt issuance
program and activities, including timing of issuance, method of sale,
structuring the issue, and marketing strategies. The Treasurer and Village
Administrator, along with the Village's financial advisor, shall meet, as
appropriate, with the Village Board regarding the status of the current year's
program and to make specific recommendations.
      5.   Ratings Agency Relations: The Village shall endeavor to maintain
effective relations with the rating agencies. The Village Administrator,
Treasurer and the Village's financial advisors shall meet with, make
presentations to, or otherwise communicate with the rating agencies in order to
keep the agencies informed concerning the Village's capital plans, debt
issuance program, and other appropriate financial information.
      6.   Investment Community Relations: The Village shall endeavor to
maintain a positive relationship with the investment community. The Treasurer,
Village Administrator and the Village's financial advisor shall, as necessary,
prepare reports and other forms of communications regarding the Village's
indebtedness, as well as its future financing plans. This includes information
presented to the press and other media.
      7.   Refunding Policy: The Village shall consider refunding outstanding
debt when legally permissible and financially advantageous. A net present value
debt service savings of at least three percent (3%) or greater must be
achieved.
      8.   Investment Of Borrowed Proceeds: The Village acknowledges its
ongoing fiduciary responsibilities to actively manage the proceeds of debt
issued for public purposes in a manner that is consistent with Illinois
Statutes that govern the investment of public funds, and consistent with the
permitted securities covenants of related bond documents executed by the
Village. The management of public funds shall enable the Village to respond to
changes in markets or changes in payment or construction schedules so as to: a)
optimize returns, b) insure liquidity, and c) minimize risk.
      9.   Federal Arbitrage Rebate Requirement: In the event the Village
invests bond proceeds that qualify as arbitrage, the Village shall maintain or
cause to be maintained an appropriate system of accounting to calculate bond
investment arbitrage earnings in accordance with the Tax Reform Act of 1986, as
amended or supplemented, and applicable United States Treasury regulations
related thereto. Such amounts shall be computed annually and transferred from
the Bond Construction Fund (i.e., interest earnings revenue account) to the
Debt Service Fund escrow account, or other appropriate accounts, for eventual
payment to the United States Treasury.
In order to avoid arbitrage earnings on bond proceeds, Village staff shall
recommend issuance of debt based upon the cash flow needs of the capital
improvement project in which contracts for construction or other goods and
services can reasonably be expected to be awarded during the calendar year.
Consideration shall be given to the feasibility of obtaining rights-of-way,
engineering services, or other matters which may affect the completion of the
project in a timely manner, before a recommendation to issue debt is made.
      10.   Policy Updates: The Treasurer and Village Administrator shall
review this policy on an annual basis and update as needed.
   F.   Conduit Financing: Under Federal and State Statutes, the Village Board
has the authority to issue tax-exempt bonds for non-profit organizations
organized under Internal Revenue Code 501(c)(3), and economic development
revenue bonds, also known as private activity bonds, under the Tax Reform Act
of 1986. These tax-exempt bonds shall be collectively referred to as conduit
financings. The Village has no liability or responsibility for repayment of the
debt authorized under these statutes. Prior to issuing this type of financing,
the Treasurer and Village Administrator will update, if appropriate, the
Village Debt Management Policy to include specific guidelines related to the
issuance and administration of conduit financing.
   G.   Tax-Increment Financing Debt: Tax increment financing (TIF) debt is
excluded from this policy as it is governed by specific TIF redevelopment
agreements.
   H.   Policy Violations: The Village administration shall maintain governance
practices that encourage ethical behavior. Any transactions related to the debt
management practices that indicate the intentional non-compliance of the policy
or a possibility of fraud shall be reported, either verbally or in writing, to
the Village Administrator and/or Chief of Police.
   I.   Glossary Of Terms:
   AD VALOREM TAX: A direct tax based "according to value" of property.
   ADVANCED REFUNDING BONDS: Bonds issued to refund an outstanding bond issue
prior to the date on which the outstanding bonds become due or callable.
Proceeds of the advanced refunding bonds are deposited in escrow with a
fiduciary, invested in United States Treasury bonds or other authorized
securities, and used to redeem the underlying bonds at maturity or call date.
   AMORTIZATION: The process of paying the principal amount of an issue of
bonds by periodic payments either directly to bondholders or to a sinking fund
for the benefit of bondholders.
   ARBITRAGE: Usually refers to the difference between the interest paid on the
tax-exempt securities and the interest earned by investing the proceeds in
higher yielding taxable securities. Internal Revenue Service regulations govern
arbitrage (reference IRS Reg. 1.103-13 though 1.103-15).
   ARBITRAGE BONDS: Bonds which are deemed by the IRS to violate Federal
arbitrage regulations. The interest on such bonds becomes taxable and the
bondholders must include this interest as part of gross income for Federal
Income Tax purposes (IRS Reg. 1.103-13 through 1.103-15).
   ASSESSED VALUE: An annual determination of the just or fair market value of
property for purposes of ad valorem taxation.
   BASIS POINT: 1/100 of one percent (0.01%).
   BOND: Written evidence of the issuer's obligation to repay a specified
principal amount on a date certain, together with interest at a stated rate, or
according to a formula for determining that rate.
   BOND ANTICIPATION NOTES (BANS): Short-term interest-bearing notes issued by
a government in anticipation of bonds to be issued at a later date. The notes
are retired from proceeds of the bond issue to which they are related.
   BOND COUNSEL: An attorney retained by the Village to render a legal opinion
whether the Village is authorized to issue the proposed bonds, has met all
legal requirements necessary for issuance, and whether interest on the bonds
is, or is not, exempt from Federal and State income taxation.
   BOND INVESTMENT ARBITRAGE EARNINGS: The difference between the interest
expense paid by the bond debt issuer and the earnings from the invested
proceeds.
   BONDED DEBT: The portion of an issuers total indebtedness represented by
outstanding bonds payable from the General Funds of the Village.
   CALLABLE BOND: A bond which permits or requires the issuer to redeem the
obligation before the stated maturity date at a specified price, the call
price, usually at or above par value.
   CAPITAL APPRECIATION BONDS (CAB): A long-term security on which the
investment return is reinvested at a stated compound rate until maturity. The
investor receives a single payment at maturity representing both the principal
and investment return.
   CERTIFICATES OF PARTICIPATION: Documents, in fully registered form, that act
like bonds. However, security for the certificates is the government's intent
to make annual appropriations during the term of a lease agreement. No pledge
of full faith and credit of the government is made. Consequently, the
obligation of the government to make basic rental payments does not constitute
an indebtedness of the government.
   COMMERCIAL PAPER: Very short-term, unsecured promissory notes issued in
either registered or bearer form, and usually backed by a line of credit with a
bank.
   COUPON RATE: The annual rate of interest payable on a coupon bond (a bearer
bond or bond registered as to principal only, carrying coupons evidencing
future interest payments), expressed as a percentage of the principal amount.
   DEBT LIMIT: The maximum amount of debt which an issuer is permitted in incur
under constitutional, statutory or charter provision.
   DEBT SERVICE: The amount of money necessary to pay interest on an
outstanding debt, the serial maturities of principal for serial bonds, and the
required contributions to an amortization or sinking fund for term bonds.
   DEMAND NOTES (VARIABLE RATE): A short-term security which is subject to a
frequently available put option feature under which the holder may put the
security back to the issuer after giving specified notice. Many of these
securities are floating or variable rate, with the put option exercisable on
dates on which the floating rate changes.
   DIRECT DEBT OR GROSS BONDED DEBT: The sum of the total bonded debt pledged
against the General Fund and any unfunded debt of the issuer.
   DOUBLE-BARRELED BONDS (COMBINATION BONDS): A bond which is payable from the
revenues of a governmental enterprise and are also backed by the full faith and
credit of the governmental unit.
   ENTERPRISE FUNDS: Funds that are financed and operated in a manner similar
to private business in that goods and services provided are financed primarily
through user charges.
   GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND: A bond for whose payment the full faith and credit
of the issuer has been pledged. More commonly, but not necessarily, general
obligation bonds are payable from ad valorem Property Taxes and other General
Fund revenues.
   LEASE PURCHASE AGREEMENT (CAPITAL LEASE): A contractual agreement whereby
the government borrows funds from a financial institution or a vendor to pay
for capital acquisition. The title to the asset(s) normally belongs to the
government with the lessor acquiring security interest or appropriate lien
therein.
   LETTER OF CREDIT: A commitment, usually made by a commercial bank, to honor
demands for payment of a debt upon compliance with conditions and/or the
occurrence of certain events specified under the terms of the commitment.
   LEVEL DEBT SERVICE: An arrangement of serial maturities in which the amount
of principal maturing increases at approximately the same rate as the amount of
interest declines.
   LONG-TERM DEBT: Long-term debt is defined as any debt incurred whose final
maturity is more than three (3) years.
   MATURITY: The date upon which the principal of a Municipal bond becomes due
and payable to bondholders.
   MINI-BONDS: A small denomination bond directly marketed to the public.
   NET BONDED DEBT: The total outstanding debt from the General Fund, divided
by the current equalized assessed value as determined by the Township Assessor
(s).
   NET INTEREST COST (NIC): The traditional method of calculating bids for new
issues of Municipal securities. The total dollar amount of interest over the
life of the bonds is adjusted by the amount of premium or discount bid, and
then reduced to an average annual rate. The other method is known as the true
interest cost (see definition of true interest cost).
   NET OVERALL DEBT: Net direct debt plus the issuer's applicable share of the
net direct debt of all overlapping jurisdictions.
   OFFERING CIRCULAR: Usually a preliminary and final document prepared to
describe or disclose to investors and dealers' information about an issue of
securities expected to be offered in the primary market. As a part of the
offering circular, an official statement should be prepared by the Village
describing the debt and other pertinent financial and demographic data used to
market the bonds to potential buyers.
   OTHER CONTRACTUAL DEBT: Purchase contracts and other contractual debt other
than bonds and notes. Other contractual debt does not affect annual debt
limitation and is not a part of indebtedness within the meaning of any
constitution or statutory debt limitation or restriction.
   OVERLAPPING DEBT: The issuer's proportionate share of the debt of other
local governmental units which either overlap or underlie it.
   PAR VALUE OR FACE AMOUNT: In the case of bonds, the amount of principal
which must be paid at maturity.
   PARITY BONDS: Two (2) or more issues of bonds which have the same priority
of claim or lien against pledged revenues or the issuer's full faith and credit
pledge.
   PRINCIPAL: The face amount or par value of a bond or issue of bonds payable
on stated dates of maturity.
   PRIVATE ACTIVITY BONDS: One of two (2) categories of bonds established under
the Tax Reform Act of 1986, both of whom are subject to certain tests and State
volume caps to preserve tax exemption.
   RATINGS: Evaluations of the credit quality of notes and bonds, usually made
by independent rating services, which generally measure the probability of the
timely repayment of principal and interest on Municipal bonds.
   REFUNDING BONDS: Bonds issued to retire bonds already outstanding.
   REGISTERED BOND: A bond listed with the registrar as to ownership, which
cannot be sold or exchanged without a change of registration.
   RESERVE FUND: A fund which may be used to pay debt service if the sources of
the pledged revenues do not generate sufficient funds to satisfy the debt
service requirements.
   SELF-SUPPORTING OR SELF-LIQUIDATING DEBT: Debt that is to be repaid from
proceeds derived exclusively from the enterprise activity for which the debt
was issued.
   SHORT-TERM DEBT: Short-term debt is defined as any debt incurred whose final
maturity is three (3) years or less.
   SPREAD: The income earned by the underwriting syndicate as a result of
differences in the price paid to the issuer for a new issue of Municipal bonds,
and the prices at which the bonds are sold to the investing public, usually
expressed in points or fractions thereof.
   TAX-EXEMPT BONDS: For Municipal bonds issued by the Village tax-exempt means
interest on the bonds are not included in gross income for Federal Income Tax
purposes; the bonds are not items of tax preference for purposes of the
Federal, alternative minimum Income Tax imposed on individuals and
corporations; and the bonds are exempt from taxation by the State of Illinois.
   TAX INCREMENT BONDS: Bonds secured by the incremental Property Tax revenues
generated from a redevelopment project area.
   TERM BONDS: Bonds coming due in a single maturity.
   TOTAL OVERALL DEBT: Net direct debt plus the issuer's applicable share of
the direct debt of all overlapping jurisdictions.
   TRUE INTEREST COST (TIC) (Also Known As CANADIAN INTEREST COST): A rate
which, when used to discount each amount of debt service payable in a bond
issue, will produce a present value precisely equal to the amount of money
received by the issuer in exchange for the bonds. The TIC method considers the
time value of money while the net interest cost (NIC) method does not.
   YIELD TO MATURITY: The rate of return to the investor earned from payments
of principal and interest, with interest compounded semiannually and assuming
that interest paid is reinvested at the same rate.
   ZERO COUPON BOND: A bond which pays no interest, but is issued at a deep
discount from par, appreciating to its full value at maturity. (Ord. 2018-22,
4-19-2018)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Tax Imposed
3-2-2: Report Required
3-2-3: Payment Of Tax
3-2-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the village at the rate of 0.0625
percent of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this chapter is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code. (1981 Code § 11-1)
3-2-2: REPORT REQUIRED:
Every such person engaged in such business in the village shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month the report to the state department
of revenue required by section 3 of an act in relation to a tax upon persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to purchasers for
use or consumption, approved June 28, 1933, as amended 1 . (1981 Code § 11-2)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-2-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state department
of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month. (1981 Code §
11-3)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Tax Imposed
3-3-2: Persons Subject To Tax
3-3-3: Collection Of Tax
3-3-4: Effective Date Of Tax
3-3-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using, in the village, any item
of tangible personal property which has been purchased outside Illinois, at
retail, from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an agency of
state government, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the selling price of such
tangible personal property, as "selling price" is defined in the "use tax act"
of the state of Illinois 1 . (Ord., 12-15-1986)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/2.
3-3-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO TAX:
The use tax shall be collected from persons whose Illinois addresses for
titling or registration purposes are given as being within the village. (Ord.,
12-15-1986)
3-3-3: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Such tax shall be collected by the state department of revenue, and paid to the
state of Illinois by such persons obligated to pay the tax, before a title or
certificate of registration for property may be issued. (Ord., 12-15-1986)
3-3-4: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The municipal use tax shall be effective on January 1, 1987, following
expiration of the publication of ordinance passed December 15, 1986. (Ord., 12-
15-1986)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITIES TAXES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Gas Tax
3-4-3: Electricity Tax
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter and imposing taxes, the following definitions
or meanings shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or water for use or consumption and not for resale,
as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith
valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash,
credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all services
rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of
the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials
used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever. Gross receipts
shall not include that portion of the consideration received for distributing,
supplying, furnishing, or selling gas or water to business enterprises
described in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, paragraph (e), to the
extent and during the period in which the exemption authorized by said
paragraph (e) is in effect or for school districts or units of local government
described in paragraph (f) during the period in which the exemption authorized
in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, paragraph (f), is in effect.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person, having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility, as defined in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
8-11-2, directly in the generation, production, transmission, delivery or sale
of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
village of Heyworth, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
VILLAGE: The village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2005-05, 2-21-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
3-4-2: GAS TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption
within the corporate limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of
five percent (5%) of the gross receipts therefrom.
   B.   Exemptions From Tax: No tax is imposed by this section with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made the subject of taxation by the state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or water be subject to taxation under the provisions
of this section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation
under the provisions of the municipal retailers' occupation tax act, being 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   C.   Tax Is Additional: The tax imposed by this section shall be in addition
to the payment of money or value of products or services furnished to the
village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys, or
other public places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or
thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of
the taxpayer's business.
   D.   Determination Of Tax: The tax imposed hereunder shall be based on the
"gross receipts", as defined in section
3-4-1 of this chapter, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or
after July 1, 1980.
   E.   Tax Return: On or before the last day of every third month after July
1974, each person required to pay a tax under this section shall prepare and
transmit to the collector of the village a report or return covering the
previous monthly period, stating the following:
      1.   Name of taxpayer.
      2.   Principal place of business of taxpayer. (Ord. 2005-05, 2-21-2005)
      3.   Gross receipts of taxpayer during the monthly period covered by the
report or return upon which the tax imposed hereunder is based.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the collector of
the village may require.
   F.   Payment Of Tax: The taxpayer making the return shall, at the time of
transmitting such return to the village collector, pay to the village collector
the amount of tax imposed hereunder; provided, that in connection with any
return, the taxpayer may, at the taxpayer's election, report and pay an amount
based upon the total billings of business subject to the tax during the period
for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with
prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any differences between such
bill and the taxable gross receipts.
   G.   Erroneous Tax Payment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
the result of a mistake or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited
against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who
made the erroneous payment, provided, no amount erroneously paid more than
three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
(Ord. 2005-05, 2-21-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
3-4-3: ELECTRICITY TAX:
   A.   Authority: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 and all
other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed
within the corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated
on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Number Of Kilowatt Hours   Cents Per
Used Or Consumed Per Month Kilowatt Hour
Number Of Kilowatt Hours                                 Cents Per
Used Or Consumed Per Month                               Kilowatt Hour
First                                         2,000      0.306
Next                                          48,000     0.201
Next                                          50,000     0.181
Next                                          400,000    0.176
Next                                          500,000    0.171
Next                                          2,000,000  0.161
Next                                          2,000,000  0.158
Next                                          5,000,000  0.156
Next                                          10,000,000 0.153
All electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000 0.151
 
   B.   Tax Is Additional: The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other
revenue measures imposed by the village, the state of Illinois or any other
political subdivision of the state.
   C.   Exemption From Tax: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, the tax shall not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or
collection of the tax would violate the constitution or statutes of the United
States or the constitution of the state of Illinois.
   D.   Collection Of Tax:
      1.   The tax imposed under this section shall be collected from
purchasers by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers electricity to such purchasers. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
is recoverable at the same time and in the same manner as the original charge
for delivering the electricity.
      2.   Any tax required to be collected by this section, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person
delivering the electricity; provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity, the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible; and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax.
      3.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax they collect
to reimburse themselves for their expenses incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the village upon request. For purposes of this section, any partial payment
of a billed amount not specifically identified by the purchaser shall be deemed
to be for the delivery of electricity. (Ord. 2005-05, 2-21-2005)
CHAPTER 5
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-5-1: Tax Rate
3-5-1: TAX RATE:
The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax imposed under the
provisions of sections 5-25 and 5-30 of the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act 1 , P.A. 92-0526, is six percent (6%). (Ord. 2006-
17, 8-7-2006, eff. 1-1-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-25, 636/5-30.
CHAPTER 6
PROPERTY SALES
ARTICLE A. MUNICIPAL REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-6A-1: Purpose
3-6A-2: Determination Of Sale
3-6A-3: Sales Agent
3-6A-4: Notice Requirements
3-6A-5: Bid Requirements
3-6A-1: PURPOSE:
From time to time, the village may deem it necessary to sell municipal real
property owned by the village. To orderly facilitate the sale of municipal real
property, the village hereby establishes procedures to orderly facilitate the
bidding process on the sale of property. (Ord. 2005-31, 10-27-2005)
3-6A-2: DETERMINATION OF SALE:
   A.   When a trustee or the mayor wishes to explore a new business involving
the sale of municipal real property owned by the village, such business shall
first be sent to and addressed in the economic development committee.
   B.   The economic development committee may explore and discuss the options
of selling municipal real property and shall report its options and
recommendations to the village board at a regularly scheduled meeting.
   C.   The village board may decide that it is in the best interest of the
village to sell the municipal real property and then may direct, by a majority
vote, the economic development committee begin procuring bids on said municipal
real property. (Ord. 2005-31, 10-27-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
3-6A-3: SALES AGENT:
The economic development committee may procure the services of a real estate
agent, broker, or some other third party knowledgeable and skilled in the area
of real estate to assist the village in seeking out interested parties to
submit bids for the sale of municipal real property. This party shall
hereinafter be referred to as the "village agent". (Ord. 2005-31, 10-27-2005;
amd. 2011 Code)
3-6A-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
The village shall, by ordinance, direct that a notice of the sale of municipal
real property be inserted in the local publication once a week for three (3)
consecutive weeks. Such publication shall comply with the notice requirements
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-76-2, which includes an accurate
description of the municipal real property, the purpose for which it is used,
and at what meeting the bids will be considered and opened, and shall advertise
for bids thereafter. (Ord. 2005-31, 10-27-2005)
3-6A-5: BID REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The village shall accept bids from the date of the first publication,
and such bids shall be opened and considered at least thirty (30) days, but not
later than sixty (60) days, from the date of the first publication.
   B.   Such bids shall be accepted at the village hall or through the village
agent and can be submitted by interested parties or the agents of interested
parties.
   C.   Such bids shall be opened and considered at a regularly scheduled
village board meeting.
   D.   At this meeting, the village board may reject any bid by a majority
vote of the trustees and may accept the high bid or any other bid determined to
be in the best interest of the village by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the
trustees. (Ord. 2005-31, 10-27-2005)
   E.   If a bid is accepted by a three-fourths (3/4) vote of the trustees,
then the mayor and village clerk shall convey the municipal real property to
the party whose bid was accepted. (Ord. 2005-31, 10-27-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE B. SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-6B-1: Statute Authority
3-6B-2: Condition Of Property
3-6B-3: Bids
3-6B-4: Notice Requirements; Time Of Sale
3-6B-5: Award Of Bid; Time Limit On Possession Of Property
3-6B-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
The village, pursuant to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
76-4, hereby authorizes the sale of surplus personal property of the village,
the number, identification, description and character of the items to be so
sold as described by the village. (Ord. 2005-10, 3-21-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
3-6B-2: CONDITION OF PROPERTY:
All such property sold shall be "as is" and "where is", without any warranty of
any kind, express or implied, oral or written, by the village, its elected
officials, appointed officials, employees, agents, successors or assigns. (Ord.
2005-10, 3-21-2005)
3-6B-3: BIDS:
The property shall be sold by the taking of sealed bids for items of personal
property. Such sealed bids shall contain the name of the bidder, the item
proposed to be purchased, and the price to be paid therefor, and shall be on
the form provided by the village. All such bids shall be submitted to the
principal office of the village during normal business hours and shall be
placed in a sealed envelope which shall be identified on the front as "surplus
property bid". All such bids shall remain in the possession of the village
treasurer until the conclusion of said surplus property sale, as described
hereinafter, and shall thereafter be opened and tabulated by the village clerk
and treasurer who shall sell the property to the highest bidder for each such
item. (Ord. 2005-10, 3-21-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
3-6B-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; TIME OF SALE:
The village clerk is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to publish a
notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the village, the Heyworth
Star, informing members of the public of the sale of such surplus property and
providing for the inspection of the property during normal business hours of
the village hall, and the method by which potential purchasers may submit a
field bid for such property on the form provided by the village. The sale of
such property shall commence on the date of publication of the notice and shall
conclude at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the second Friday following publication
of such notice. (Ord. 2005-10, 3-21-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
3-6B-5: AWARD OF BID; TIME LIMIT ON POSSESSION OF PROPERTY:
Upon the conclusion of the sale, the successful bidders for the property shall
be given notice, in such form as the village clerk and treasurer may jointly
determine, informing the successful bidder to appear at village hall and pay
for and take possession of the item(s) so purchased within seven (7) days of
the date of notification. Any purchased property not paid for or taken
possession of within said period is hereby determined to have no value and
shall be disposed of in the manner determined by the village. (Ord. 2005-10, 3-
21-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TIF INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRIES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Registries Established
3-7-3: Maintenance Of Registry
3-7-4: Submission Of Registration
3-7-5: Eligibility Determined
3-7-6: Renewals And Termination
3-7-7: Amendment To Registration
3-7-8: Public Inspection Of Registries
3-7-9: Notices To Interested Parties
3-7-10: Noninterference
3-7-11: Amendment Of Provisions
3-7-12: Specific TIF Districts
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the definitions set
forth in this section:
ACT: The tax increment allocation redevelopment act, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
CLERK: The village clerk.
INTERESTED PARTY(IES): A. Any organization(s) active within the village;
   B.   Any resident(s) of the village; and
   C.   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the act to register
in the interested parties registry who has registered in such registry and
whose registration has not been terminated in accordance with this chapter.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA: A redevelopment project area that:
   A.   Is intended to qualify or that has previously or subsequently qualified
as a "redevelopment project area" under the act; and
   B.   Is subject to the "interested parties registry" requirements of the
act.
REGISTRATION FORM: The form appended to the ordinance codified herein, or such
revised form as may be approved by the department consistent with the
requirements of the act.
REGISTRY OR REGISTRIES: Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the village pursuant to section 11-
74.4-4.2 of the act for a redevelopment project area.
VILLAGE: The village of Heyworth, an Illinois municipal corporation. (Ord.
2009-66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-2: REGISTRIES ESTABLISHED:
The village shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the effective date hereof or
hereafter established. (Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-3: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The registries shall be maintained by the clerk, who has a principal business
office located at village hall, Heyworth, Illinois. The village may transfer
the responsibility for maintaining the registries to such other department;
provided, that the village:
   A.   Gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than
thirty (30) days prior to such transfer; and
   B.   Publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village. (Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-4: SUBMISSION OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Individuals: An individual seeking to register as an interested party
with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a
registration form to the clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy of a
current driver's license, lease, utility bill, or such other evidence as may be
acceptable to the clerk to establish the individual's current residency.
   B.   Organizations: An organization seeking to register as an interested
party with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a
registration form to the clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a
one page statement describing the organization's current operations in the
village. (Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-5: ELIGIBILITY DETERMINED:
All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation comply with this chapter shall be registered in the applicable
registry within ten (10) business days of the clerk's receipt of all such
documents. The clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant confirming
such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be entitled to
receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under this chapter
or as otherwise required under the act with respect to the applicable
redevelopment project area. If the clerk determines that a registrant's
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with this chapter, the clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any
defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting documentation.
(Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-6: RENEWALS AND TERMINATION:
An interested party's registration shall remain effective for a period of three
(3) years. At any time after such three (3) year period, the clerk may provide
written notice by regular mail to the interested party stating that such
registration shall terminate unless the interested party renews such
registration within thirty (30) days of the clerk's mailing of written notice.
To renew such registration, the interested party shall, within such thirty (30)
day period, complete and submit the same registration form and supporting
documentation then required of initial registrants in order to permit the clerk
to confirm such person's residency or such organization's operations in the
village. The registration of all individuals and organizations whose
registration form and supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner
and complies with this chapter shall be renewed for an additional, consecutive
three (3) year period. If the clerk determines that a registrant's renewal
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with this chapter, the clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
at the address specified in the renewal registration form submitted by such
registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting
documentation within thirty (30) days of receipt of the clerk's notice. If all
defects are not corrected within thirty (30) days of the interested party's
receipt of the clerk's notice, the interested party's registration shall be
terminated. Any interested party whose registration is terminated shall be
entitled to register again as if a first time registrant. (Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-
2009)
3-7-7: AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION:
An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to the
clerk by certified mail of any of the following: a) a change in address for
notice purposes; b) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and c) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly. (Ord. 2009-
66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-8: PUBLIC INSPECTION OF REGISTRIES:
Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal village
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each interested person and, for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person. (Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-9: NOTICES TO INTERESTED PARTIES:
Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
   A.   Pursuant to section 74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of the availability of
a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to obtain
this information; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period
of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public hearing for the
proposed redevelopment plan.
   B.   Pursuant to section 74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of changes to proposed
redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add additional parcels of property to the
proposed redevelopment project area; 2) substantially affect the general land
uses proposed in the redevelopment plan; 3) substantially change the nature of
or extend the life of the redevelopment project; or 4) increase the number of
low or very low income households to be displaced from the redevelopment
project area; provided, that measured from the time of creation of the
redevelopment project area, the total displacement of the households will
exceed ten (10); such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten (10) days
following the village adoption by ordinance of such changes.
   C.   Pursuant to section 74.4-5(c) of the act, notice of amendments to
previously approved redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add additional parcels
of property to the redevelopment project area; 2) substantially affect the
general land uses in the redevelopment plan; 3) substantially change the nature
of the redevelopment project; 4) increase the total estimated redevelopment
project costs set out in the redevelopment plan by more than five percent (5%)
after adjustment for inflation from the date the plan was adopted; 5) add
additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of redevelopment
project costs set out in the redevelopment plan; or 6) increase the number of
low or very low income households to be displaced from the redevelopment
project area; provided, that measured from the time of creation of the
redevelopment project area, the total displacement of households will exceed
ten (10); such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten (10) days
following the village adoption by ordinance of any such amendment.
   D.   Pursuant to section 74.4-5(d)(9) of the act, for redevelopment plans or
projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten (10) or
more inhabited residential units or that contain seventy five (75) or more
inhabited residential units, notice of the availability of the certified audit
report described in section 74.45(d)(9), including how to obtain the certified
audit report; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of
time after completion of the certified audit report.
   E.   Pursuant to section 74.4-6(e) of the act, notice of the preliminary
public meeting required under the act for a proposed redevelopment project area
that will result in the displacement of ten (10) or more inhabited residential
units or which will contain seventy five (75) or more inhabited residential
units; such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than fifteen (15)
days before the date of such preliminary public meeting. (Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-
2009)
3-7-10: NONINTERFERENCE:
This chapter shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise interfere with the
ability of eligible organizations and individuals to register for receipt of
information to which they are entitled under the act. (Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-11: AMENDMENT OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter may be amended by the president and board of trustees subject to
and consistent with the requirements of the act. (Ord. 2009-66, 5-18-2009)
3-7-12: SPECIFIC TIF DISTRICTS:
The following are specific TIF districts in the village:
 
District              Ordinance
I                     2009-66
II                    2009-66
III                   2009-66
Heyworth Bridle Brook 2010-15
 
(2011 Code)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Applicability
4-1-2: Applications For Licenses And Permits
4-1-3: Persons Subject To License
4-1-4: Forms
4-1-5: Signatures
4-1-6: Inspections Or Investigations
4-1-7: Contents Of License
4-1-8: Building And Premises
4-1-9: Nuisance Businesses Prohibited
4-1-10: Posting License
4-1-11: Suspension Or Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
4-1-12: Appeals
4-1-13: Minority Owned Business Enterprise Applications
4-1-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall govern and apply to all licenses and
permits regulated and issued by the village except as may otherwise be provided
by law. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-2: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS:
   A.   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall
be made in writing to the village clerk unless otherwise specifically provided
by law.
   B.   Each application shall, at minimum, state the following:
      1.   Name of the applicant;
      2.   The permit or license desired;
      3.   The location to be used, if any;
      4.   The date and time to which the permit or license applies;
      5.   The fee to be paid; and
      6.   Such additional information as may be required by the issuing
official. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-3: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the village. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-
2010)
4-1-4: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be kept on
file with the village clerk. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-5: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the mayor and the
village clerk in absence of any provision to the contrary. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-
2010)
4-1-6: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
village necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the village clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within two (2) business days from the
time of such receipt. The officer charged with the investigation or inspection
shall make a report thereon within ten (10) days after receiving the
application or a copy thereof. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-7: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
All licenses shall specify the starting and termination dates of license. (Ord.
2010-05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-8: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no permit shall
be issued for any thing or act if the premises and building to be used for the
purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village. (Ord. 2010-
05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-9: NUISANCE BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated in such a manner
so as to constitute a nuisance. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-10: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   Any license or permit may be suspended or revoked by the mayor and
board of trustees during the life of such license or permit if there is a
violation by the licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license
or permit, the subject of the license or permit, the premises occupied, or any
other provision of this chapter. Such suspension or revocation may be in
addition to any fine imposed.
      2.   The mayor and board of trustees shall be authorized to summarily
order the cessation of business, the closing of the premises, and the
suspension of any business license or permit for a period not to exceed fifteen
(15) days.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Time Constraints; Purpose: Within ten (10) days after the
appropriate village officials have so acted, the mayor shall call a hearing for
the purpose of determining whether or not the license or permit should be
revoked.
      2.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee by certified mail at his last known address or personally
served at least five (5) days prior to the date of the hearing.
      3.   Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The mayor shall preside over the hearing. After the presentation of
evidence, the board of trustees shall deliberate, and after a decision is
rendered, the mayor shall render the decision and recommendation of the board
of trustees to the licensee or permittee.
      4.   Exception: The hearing procedures set forth herein shall not be
required if a state or federal entity that has regulatory authority over the
license or permit issued or the premises occupied requires the revocation or
suspension in violation of law.
   C.   Grounds For Revocation: Licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the
mayor and board of trustees after notice and hearing as provided herein for any
of the following reasons:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of this chapter,
ordinances and resolutions of the village or the law relating to the license or
permit, the subject matter of the license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fee, fine or penalty
owing the village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspections, as provided herein. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-
2010)
4-1-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the village
to issue a license or permit or by the revocation or suspension of a license or
permit shall have the right to appeal the village decision to the village board
of trustees. Such appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to
the mayor within five (5) days of the action of the village which is appealed
and shall state the action that was taken and the reason the appeal is being
requested.
   B.   Village Board Consideration: The village board of trustees shall
consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting or upon a call for
a special meeting, at which time the applicant shall be entitled to present his
appeal orally or in writing. The village board of trustees shall act on the
appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the action
of the village or direct the issuance of a license or permit which the village
had revoked. (Ord. 2010-05, 3-15-2010)
4-1-13: MINORITY OWNED BUSINESS ENTERPRISE APPLICATIONS:
The village hereby recognizes minority owned business enterprises (MOBE) in the
village. To be eligible to be considered as a MOBE, a business must complete an
application approved by the village**** which shall utilize the following
criteria in order for the village to determine whether the applicant meets or
exceeds the requirements to be certified and recognized as a village MOBE:
(Ord. 2008-28, 8-18-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
   A.   The MOBE shall be a for profit enterprise, whose principal place of
business is located within the village, which enterprise is owned, operated and
controlled by an individual or individual(s) who is a member of a minority.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "minority" shall include women and/or
anyone who is a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident with at least one-
fourth (1/4) or twenty five percent (25%) minimum blood ethnic heritage from
the following general minority groups: African-American, Asian-Indian American,
Asian-Pacific American, Hispanic American and/or Native American descent.
   C.   A MOBE is owned, operated and controlled by a minority if the business
is at least fifty one percent (51%) owned by such individual(s) or, in the case
of a publicly owned business, at least fifty one percent (51%) of the stock is
owned by one or more such individuals. Further, those minority individuals must
control the management and daily operations.
   D.   To determine whether those minority individuals control the management
and daily operations, consideration should be given to the following:
      1.   Supervision of day to day operations;
      2.   Supervision of personnel issues;
      3.   Authorization for acquisitions and expenditures;
      4.   Marketing and sales operations and promotions;
      5.   Authority and supervision of corporate governance; and
      6.   Other criteria as deemed appropriate from time to time by the
administration committee.
   E.   In further consideration of the application of any eligible applicant,
the village will consider documentation offered in support of the criteria
established herein, together with verification of the lawful existence of the
corporation, and certification that said corporate entity is in good standing
within the state of Illinois. (Ord. 2008-28, 8-18-2008)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title
4-2-2: Purpose And Intent
4-2-3: State Statute Adopted
4-2-4: Provisions Are Additional
4-2-5: Definitions
4-2-6: Liquor License Required
4-2-7: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
4-2-8: Liquor License Prohibited
4-2-9: Liquor License Applications; Requirements
4-2-10: Types Of Licenses
4-2-11: License Restrictions
4-2-12: Posting Of License
4-2-13: Expiration Of License; Renewals
4-2-14: Transfer Of License; Change Of Location
4-2-15: Violations; Penalties
4-2-16: Revocations And Suspensions
4-2-17: Appeals
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the LIQUOR CONTROL ORDINANCE of the village of
Heyworth. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
4-2-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide for the administration of
the conduct of sale and consumption of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages
in the village of Heyworth and to provide regulations and procedures for the
issuance, administration and revocation of licenses and permits for the retail
sale of beer, wine and other alcoholic beverages in the village of Heyworth in
order to promote the health, safety and welfare of the people in the village of
Heyworth. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
4-2-3: STATE STATUTE ADOPTED:
All provisions of the Illinois liquor control act of 1934 which can be found at
section 5/1-3 et seq., of the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1  are hereby adopted
by reference, the same as if any such related provisions not specifically set
forth herein were set forth in full in this chapter. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3 et seq.
4-2-4: PROVISIONS ARE ADDITIONAL:
All provisions of this chapter are hereby declared supplemental to, but not
inconsistent with, the provisions of the liquor control act. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-
22-2011)
4-2-5: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to the words when
used within this chapter:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Include, but are not limited to, any spirit, wine,
beer, ale, whiskey, gin, brandy, rum or any distilled or fermented liquid
containing more than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume, fit for human
consumption.
   BEER: A beverage created by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and may include
or be referred to as ale, stout, lager beer or porter.
   BEER GARDEN: See definition of Outdoor Garden.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The board of trustees of the village of Heyworth.
   CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of the state of Illinois, and
organized not for pecuniary profit but solely for the promotion of some common
object or purpose other than the sale of alcoholic liquors kept, used and
maintained by its members, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or space in
a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for
the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its members and its
guests including kitchen and dining room space and equipment for the
preparation and serving of food and meals for members and guests. To qualify
for a CLUB license, the club shall have its affairs and management conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen by the
members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent or
employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form
of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of
alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
    COMMISSIONER: The local liquor control commissioner, which is the president
or mayor of the village of Heyworth.
   CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES: The consumption of any alcoholic beverage
within the building or structure from which the sale of the alcoholic beverage
occurred. The consumption of any alcoholic beverage outside the building or
structure of sale, whether in public view or otherwise, is prohibited under
this chapter unless a permit issued by the village for a designated drinking
location, such as a "beer garden" or other duly designated consumption
location, is applied for with and received from the commissioner.
   LIQUOR COMMISSION: The liquor commission of the village of Heyworth.
   LIQUOR CONTROL ACT: The Illinois liquor control act of 1934 which can be
found at section 5/1-3 et seq., of the Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 .
   OUTDOOR GARDEN (Also Referred To As A BEER GARDEN): An approved and licensed
outdoor area immediately adjacent to a premises where alcoholic beverages are
sold and consumed, and where such premises holds a valid class A, AP, B, C, or
CLUB liquor license. The outdoor garden must also be enclosed in such a manner
so as to prevent access to such area except for access directly from the
primary adjacent structure on the premises.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place without sleeping accommodations, the principal
purpose for which such place is kept, used, maintained, advertised or held out
to the public as a place or establishment where food for consumption on the
premises is served and/or sold to nonemployees and where not less than fifty
percent (50%) of all sales at retail are derived from the serving and sale of
food to nonemployee members of the general public.
   RETAIL SALE: Sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   SALE: The transfer, exchange or barter for consideration, including any sale
made by any person including principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL: The act of making a sale, receiving an order for exposing to the
public for the purpose of selling or keeping with the intent to sell.
   VILLAGE: The village of Heyworth.
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above defined. (Ord.
2011-06, 2-22-2011; amd. Ord. 2011-09, 3-21-2011; Ord. 2012-09, 3-15-2012)
   B.   Words Not Defined In This Section: Any words not specifically defined
herein shall have the meaning as described in the liquor control act 2 .
   C.   Hours Effective In McLean County: The hours indicated herein shall mean
either Central Standard Time or Central Daylight Time, whichever is in effect
in McLean County, Illinois. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3 et seq.
2 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3 et seq.
4-2-6: LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Liquor License Required: No person, firm, corporation or other entity
shall sell or offer for sale any beer, wine or other alcoholic beverage within
the corporate boundaries of the village of Heyworth without first having
obtained a license to do so as provided for in this chapter. No person, agent,
barkeeper, clerk or servant of any person, firm, corporation or other entity
shall sell or offer for sale at retail any beer, wine or other alcoholic
beverage within the corporate boundaries of the village without the principal,
master, or corporation having first obtained a license to do so as provided for
in this chapter. No person, firm, corporation or other entity or agent,
barkeeper, clerk or servant of any of the foregoing shall sell or offer for
sale at retail any beer, wine or other alcoholic beverages in any manner which
violates any of the terms and conditions of such sale or offer authorized by
any license issued pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
4-2-7: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Local Liquor Control Commissioner: The president or mayor of the
village of Heyworth shall be and is hereby designated as the local liquor
control commissioner as such term is defined in the liquor control act. The
commissioner is charged with the administration and enforcement of the
appropriate provisions of the liquor control act, of this chapter, and of such
additional ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations pertaining to the
sale, retail or consumption of beer, wine and all alcoholic beverages and any
and all activities in connection therewith in the corporate jurisdiction of the
village of Heyworth. Compensation for the commissioner and any appointed
deputies, assistants or employees related thereto shall be determined by the
village board of trustees as outlined in the annual appropriation ordinance.
      1.   Powers, Duties And Functions: The commissioner shall have the
following powers, duties and functions:
         a.   To receive applications for the issuance of licenses pursuant to
this chapter, the investigation of applicants, and the granting or renewal of
liquor licenses provided for herein;
         b.   To receive complaints from any citizen or person within its
jurisdiction that any of the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation relating to the sale, control or licensing of
alcoholic beverages have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaints in the manner herein provided;
         c.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at
any time upon any premises licensed pursuant to this chapter to determine
whether or not any of the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation relating to the sale, control or licensing of
alcoholic beverages have been or are being violated and to examine such
premises of any such licensed premises or licensee, including books, records or
license of the licensee in connection therewith;
         d.   To investigate the complaint of any citizen, person or law
enforcement officer and to conduct hearings on any alleged violation of this
chapter examining or causing to be examined, under oath, complainants,
licensees and any other person or interested party in connection therewith. The
commissioner may examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any
licensee and may hear testimony and take proof as to the performance of the
licensee's duties and for such other purpose as the commissioner might find
necessary. The commissioner may issue subpoenas and compel the appearance and
testimony of any person in connection therewith; and
         e.   To create a commission, appointed by the commissioner, that may
assist and advise the commissioner in the regulation and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Revocations, Suspensions, And Violations: The commissioner shall
also have the power:
         a.   To issue written reprimands, fine licensees in accordance with
section 7-5 of the liquor control act 1  and as hereinafter set forth, grant
and/or to suspend, for not more than thirty (30) days, or revoke for any cause
hereinafter set forth, or deny the renewal of a license, all local licenses
issued to persons for premises within the commissioner's jurisdiction, if:
            (1)   The licensee has violated any laws of the United States
relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, any of the provisions of the liquor
control act, any of the provisions of this chapter or any applicable rules and
regulations adopted by the Illinois state liquor control commission, the
village board of trustees, or the commissioner;
            (2)   Any licensee or other required party has made any false
statement as to a material fact in the application for any license, application
for change of ownership of any licensed premises, or any request or renewal in
connection with the renewal of any license;
            (3)   On complaint of the department of finance for any of
following violations of any tax act administered by the department for:
               (A)   Failure to file a tax return;
               (B)   The filing of a fraudulent tax return;
               (C)   Failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty finally
determined to be due;
               (D)   Failure to keep books and records;
               (E)   Failure to secure and display a certificate or
subcertificates of registration, if required; and
               (F)   Wilful violations of any rule or regulation of the
department relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability; and
            (4)   When any license has been revoked for any cause, no license
shall be granted to any such licensee or to any such premises described in the
revoked license for the period of one year thereafter.
         b.   To cause the initiation of legal proceedings under the penalty
provisions of this chapter or the liquor control act;
         c.   To receive local license fees and the same forthwith to the
village treasurer;
         d.   To notify the Illinois secretary of state whenever any club
incorporated under the general not for profit corporation act 2  or a foreign
corporation conducting its affairs as a "club", as defined in this chapter, in
Illinois under a certificate of authority issued by the secretary of state has
violated the liquor control act or this chapter;
         e.   To notify the Illinois secretary of state of any convictions or
dispositions of court supervision for a violation of section 6-20 of the liquor
control act 3  or a similar provision of a village ordinance or regulation; and
         f.   To adopt such rules and regulations consistent with the
provisions of this chapter necessary to carry on the functions and duties of
the commissioner necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare of the people of the village; and, to take any and all action necessary
and incidental to the furtherance of the duties of the commissioner as set
forth in this chapter.
   B.   Duties Of Village Clerk:
      1.   The village clerk shall be the secretary to and shall keep for the
commissioner a complete record of all licenses issued by the commissioner
pursuant to this chapter along with minutes of meetings and hearings held by or
under the direction of the commissioner.
      2.   The village clerk shall receive and acknowledge any and all
applications for the issuance of any license pursuant to this chapter, shall
cause to be deposited all funds received from any applicant or licensee for the
issuance of a license pursuant to this chapter and shall attest and
authenticate all licenses issued by the commissioner pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/7-5.
2 1. 805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq.
3 2. 235 ILCS 5/6-20.
4-2-8: LIQUOR LICENSE PROHIBITED:
   A.   License Prohibited: No liquor license shall be issued to:
      1.   A person who is not a resident of the village.
      2.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he/she resides.
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, unless the commissioner determines such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and the commissioner's investigation. The burden
of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant.
      5.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of prostitution or ill fame.
      6.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor involving decency or moral turpitude under the laws of the state of
Illinois, any other state, or any federal statute.
      7.   A person whose license to sell alcoholic beverages in this village
has been revoked for cause.
      8.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
      9.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the village.
      10.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the village.
      11.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is
incorporated or organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or
foreign limited liability company which is qualified under the business
corporation act of 1983 1  or the limited liability company act 2  to transact
business in Illinois. The village shall permit and accept from an applicant for
a license under the liquor control act proof prepared from the secretary of
state's website that the corporation or limited liability company is in good
standing and is qualified under the business corporation act of 1983 or the
limited liability company act to transact business in Illinois.
      12.   A person, partnership or corporation whose place of business is
conducted by a manager or agent unless said manager or agent possesses the same
qualifications as required of the license.
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor
or drugs prohibited by law, or who has forfeited his bond to appear in court to
answer charges for any such violation.
      14.   A person, partnership or corporation who does not own the premises
for which a license is sought, or who does not have a lease thereon for the
full period for which the license is to be used.
      15.   Any person, partnership, or corporation not eligible for a state
retail liquor dealer's license.
      16.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local
liquor control commissions, any mayor or president of the board of trustees,
member of the board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board;
and no such official shall have a direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the state liquor control commission and except that a license may
be granted in the village to any member of the board of trustees in relation to
premises that are located within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of
that official if:
         a.   The sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is
incidental to the selling of food;
         b.   The issuance of the license is approved by the state liquor
commission;
         c.   The issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable
local ordinances in effect where the premises are located; and
         d.   The official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor
issues pending before the board or council to which the license holder is
elected. Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection A16 to the contrary,
a member of a board of trustees other than the mayor or president of the board
of trustees, or a member of a county board other than the president of a county
board may have a direct interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of
alcoholic liquor as long as he or she is not a law enforcing public official, a
mayor, a village board president, or president of a county board. To prevent
any conflict of interest, the elected official with the direct interest in the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor cannot participate in
any meetings, hearings, or decisions on matters impacting the manufacture,
sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
      17.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      18.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed
by any versions of the Illinois criminal code of 1961 3  or as proscribed by a
statute replacing that code.
      19.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued
a license under the raffles act 4  or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act
5 .
      20.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in this chapter.
   B.   Criminal Conviction: A criminal conviction of a corporation is not
grounds for the denial, suspension, or revocation of a license applied for or
held by the corporation if the criminal conviction was not the result of a
violation of any federal or state law concerning the manufacture, possession or
sale of alcoholic liquor, the offense that led to the conviction did not result
in any financial gain to the corporation and the corporation has terminated its
relationship with each director, officer, employee, or controlling shareholder
whose actions directly contributed to the conviction of the corporation. The
commissioner shall determine if all provisions of this subsection B have been
met before any action on the corporation's license is initiated. (Ord. 2011-06,
2-22-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 2. 805 ILCS 180/1-1 et seq.
3 1. 725 ILCS 5/101 et seq.
4 2. 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
5 3. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
4-2-9: LIQUOR LICENSE APPLICATIONS; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Liquor License Applications And Content: Applications for any license
under the terms of this chapter shall be signed by the applicant, if an
individual; or partners if a partnership, or by a duly authorized agent of the
corporation or business entity; and all signatures thereon shall be verified,
on a form filed at least fifteen (15) days in advance with the commissioner.
The application must contain the following:
      1.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a partnership, the persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof, in the case of a corporation, the date of incorporation, the
state of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers, directors, shareholders, and whether the corporation
is organized as a profit or not for profit corporation, and if a not for profit
corporation, the members thereof;
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization;
      3.   The name, address and description of the premises to be operated
under such license, and upon request of the commissioner, photographs of the
interior, and exterior, kitchen and dining area of such premises. In the event
the building is not constructed at the time of the application, the plans of
the building to be constructed, certified by a registered architect;
      4.   The character of the business for which the license is intended;
      5.   The length of time that applicant has been in a business similar to
that for which the license is sought, or in the case of a corporation, the date
on which its charter was issued;
      6.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the "assumed name" of the
business with the County Clerk;
      7.   The name and address of the landlord if the premises are leased;
      8.   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application for
a similar other license on premises other than described in this application,
and the disposition of each prior application;
      9.   If applicable, the number, the date of issuance, and the date of
expiration of the applicant's current liquor license;
      10.   The date and place of any conviction of crime of the applicant or,
if a corporation, the date and place of any conviction of crime of any agent or
controlling shareholder of said corporation;
      11.   Whether a previous license to sell alcoholic beverages has been
revoked by any state or subdivision thereof, or by the Federal government, the
date and place of such revocation and the reason therefor;
      12.   A statement that the applicant is completely familiar with the
terms and provisions of this chapter and the County Food Resolution adopted
September 14, 1948, as amended;
      13.   A statement that the applicant is not disqualified from receiving a
liquor license by reason of any provisions within the law of the State of
Illinois; (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
      14.   A certificate of insurance issued by a reputable insurance carrier
insuring the business under the dramshop laws of the State of Illinois, said
certificate to reflect liability insurance under said Act in amounts of not
less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per person and one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence for all businesses except for
CLUB licensees in which case CLUB licensees must have one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) per person and three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) per occurrence of liability insurance under the dramshop laws of
the State of Illinois; (Ord. 2012-21, 5-21-2012)
      15.   The names and addresses of three (3) references within this Village
who can attest to the applicant's character and reputation;
      16.   The names of the person or persons who will manage the business or
be the agent of the applicant in supervising the business operation;
      17.   The names of any public office held by the applicant, any partner
if a partnership, any shareholder, director or member if a corporation of
either type, profit or not for profit;
      18.   The name, sex, date of birth, position and percentage of ownership
if the business of every sole owner, partner, corporate officer, director,
manager and any person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the
applicant business entity or parent corporations of the applicant business
entity. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
   B.   Bond: A penal bond with surety in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) to the Village for the period of the license shall be submitted at
the time of application submittal. Said bond shall be conditioned upon the
faithful observance by the licensee of this chapter and the requirements of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934 and all other liquor laws of the State of Illinois
and the United States of America applying to the sale, transportation and
possession of alcoholic beverages. Said bond shall be further conditioned upon
the payment by the person, partnership or corporation bonded to any person or
persons entitled to damages as a result of any sale, occurrence, transaction or
injury which arises from the operation of the business for which the license
hereto applies. (Ord. 2018-16, 4-5-2018)
   C.   Fingerprinting: Applicants for a liquor license may be required to
provide fingerprints and the applicable fee for such fingerprinting to the
Village for submittal to the Department of State Police in the form and manner
as required by the Village.
   D.   Fees: Fees for licenses shall be payable at the time the application is
filed. The fee shall consist of, at a minimum, a fingerprint processing fee, a
nonrefundable liquor license application fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00),
and a liquor license fee in the amount as specified for the type of license
hereinafter stated. The liquor license fee to be paid shall be reduced in
proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to
the issuance of the license. Licensee, at his/her option may pay such fee in
quarterly installments each payment to be the first day of the quarterly period
in advance.
   E.   Lease: If the premises of the location of where the liquor license has
been issued is leased, the applicant shall attach a copy of the lease to the
application. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
4-2-10: TYPES OF LICENSES:
   A.   Classifications Of Licenses: Licenses shall be divided into the
following classes:
      1.   Class A Licenses: Retail sale of all alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises. The annual fee for such license shall be one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      2.   Class AP Licenses: Retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
on the premises and for the retail package of alcoholic liquor. The annual fee
for such license shall be one thousand one hundred dollars ($1,100.00).
      3.   Class B Licenses: Retail sale of beer and wine only and for
consumption on the premises only under limited hours as set forth in section
4-2-11 of this chapter. The annual fee for such license shall be eight hundred
dollars ($800.00).
      4.   Class C Licenses: Retail sale of beer only for consumption on the
premises as well as retail package sales of beer. The annual fee for such
license shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      5.   Class D Licenses: Retail package sale of beer and wine only, and
provided that the sale for consumption on the premises will not be permitted.
The annual license fee for such license shall be six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      6.   Class E Licenses: Retail package sale of alcoholic beverages, beer,
and wine, provided that the sale for consumption on the premises will not be
permitted. The annual license fee for such license shall be nine hundred
dollars ($900.00).
      7.   Class NFP Licenses: Retail sale on the premises specified of alcohol
beverages, wine and beer for consumption on the premises only, for a special
benefit or charitable event for which the sponsor is not to derive a profit,
and to be issued only to a person or corporation for sales during not more than
a twelve (12) hour period on one day from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight except for permits issued on Sunday, which shall
expire no later than eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. The applicant must specify the
purpose of the not for profit, which must be open to the public, and such other
information as requested by the Commissioner. The onetime license fee for such
license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      8.   Class SE Licenses: Retail sale on the premises specified of
alcoholic beverages, wine and beer for consumption on the premises only for a
special event and to be issued only to a person or corporation for sales during
not more than a twelve (12) hour period on one day from twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight except for permits issued on Sunday,
which shall expire no later than eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. The applicant
must, at a minimum, specify what the event is, the dates and times of the
event, the location of where sales will occur, and such other information as
requested by the Commissioner. An SE license shall not be issued to any one
person or business entity more than twelve (12) times per year. The onetime
license fee for each such license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). A copy of
the State liquor license issued to the applicant shall be required at the time
of application.
      9.   Class CLUB Licenses: Retail sale of alcohol liquor on the premises
for consumption on the premises only. Such licenses shall only be issued to a
"club" as herein defined. The annual fee for such license shall be three
hundred dollars ($300.00). When applying for a CLUB license, the applicant must
submit two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and
similarly file a current list within ten (10) days of the election of any
additional member of the club.
   B.   Number Of Licenses Available For Issue:
Type Of License Number Issued
Type Of License Number Issued
Class A         0
Class AP        7
Class B         1
Class C         0
Class D         0
Class E         2
Class NFP       0
Class SE        12 per person/entity
Class CLUB      1
 
   C.   Information Stated On Licenses: All licenses shall state thereon the
class to which they belong, names of the licensees and the addresses and
description of the premises for which they are granted, and the dates of their
issuance and expiration.
   D.   Outdoor Garden Establishments: All Class A, AP, B, C, or CLUB licensees
must apply to and receive written approval from the Commissioner for the
establishment of an outdoor garden on the premises.
(Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-09, 3-15-2012; Ord. 2018-16, 4-5-2018;
Ord. 2020-20, 4-2-2020; Ord. 2021-02, 1-21-2021; Ord. 2021-40, 7-15-2021; Ord.
2023-10, 3-2-2023; Ord. 2024-42, 7-18-2024; Ord. 2024-42, 7-18-2024)
4-2-11: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Sanitary Conditions:
      1.   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages or for
the storage of such beverages for such sale shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the laws of the
State of Illinois and the ordinance or resolution of this Village regulating
the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption, as provided in the County Food Resolution approved September 14,
1948, as amended.
      2.   All employees shall be qualified under the said County Food
Resolution.
   B.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
beverage within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home
for aged or indigent person, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any
military station, provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or
school where the church or school has been established within such one hundred
feet (100') since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a
church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the
nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational programs
and not to property boundaries.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor to a restaurant, the primary
business of which is the sale of goods baked on the premises if:
         a.   The restaurant is newly constructed and located on a lot of not
less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet;
         b.   The restaurant costs at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
to construct;
         c.   The licensee is the titleholder to the premises and resides on
the premises; and
         d.   The construction of the restaurant is completed within eighteen
(18) months of the effective date of this amendatory act of 1998.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if:
         a.   The primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of
food where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the
applicant is a completely new owner of the restaurant;
         b.   The immediately prior owner or operator of the premises where the
restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant and held a valid
retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the restaurant for
at least part of the twenty four (24) months before the change of ownership;
and
         c.   The restaurant is located seventy five (75) or more feet from a
school.
      4.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to
a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
   C.   Hours Of Operation:
      1.   Class A, AP, C, D, E And CLUB Licenses: It shall be unlawful to sell
or offer for sale at retail, or to allow consumption on the premises any
alcoholic beverage pursuant to the authority of Class A, AP, C, D, E and CLUB
licenses respectively between the following hours: twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Monday through Friday; one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday; see subsection C3 of this section
for Sunday sales and subsection C4 of this section for sales on the day before
Thanksgiving/Thanksgiving Day sales and New Year's Eve/New Year's Day sales.
(Ord. 2017-65, 11-16-2017)
      2.   Class B Licenses: Holders of Class B licenses shall be permitted to
sell or offer for sale at retail for consumption on the premises beer and wine
between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Monday through
Saturday; see subsection C3 of this section for Sunday sales. (Ord. 2011-09, 3-
21-2011)
      3.   Sunday Sales:
         a.   Sunday Sale Of Retail Package Alcohol: Sale of any alcoholic
beverage of retail package alcohol and not for consumption on the premises,
pursuant to the authority of Class AP, D and E licenses shall hereby be
permitted between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight on Sunday.
         b.   Sunday Sale Of Retail Alcohol For Consumption On The Premises
Only: Sale of any alcoholic beverage of retail alcohol for consumption on the
premises only, pursuant to the authority of Class A, Class AP, Class B, Class C
and CLUB licenses shall be permitted between the hours of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Sunday. All establishments which
choose to sell alcohol on Sunday for consumption on the premises shall serve
food for consumption on the premises for at least fifty percent (50%) of the
time when alcohol is served. (Ord. 2019-29, 6-6-2019)
         c.   Special Use Permit: Holders of Class A, Class AP, Class B, Class
C and Class CLUB licenses shall be permitted to choose up to twelve (12) days
per year to exercise a special use permit. The special use permit shall allow
the licensee to serve alcohol for consumption on the premises one hour longer
than normal license hours. The licensee shall notify the Liquor Commissioner in
writing at least two (2) weeks prior to the Sunday which the licensee desires
to exercise the special use permit. (Ord. 2015-12, 3-19-2015)
      4.   Sales On The Day Before Thanksgiving/Thanksgiving Day And New Year's
Eve/New Year's Day: It is hereby authorized to have sales for consumption on
the premises for Class A, AP, C, NFP, and CLUB licenses on the day before
Thanksgiving leading into Thanksgiving Day morning and New Year's Eve Day
leading into New Year's Day from the normal hours permitted until one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. (Ord. 2017-65, 11-16-2017)
4-2-12: POSTING OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause his license or licenses to be framed and hung in
plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-
22-2011)
4-2-13: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
   A.   Expiration Of License: Each license shall terminate on April 15 of the
year following its issuance except under the following conditions:
      1.   The license is revoked; or
      2.   An NFP or SE license shall expire as specified on the license, but
such license shall not exceed twelve (12) days per licensee per location in any
twelve (12) month period;
   B.   Renewal: Any licensee may renew his/her license at the expiration
thereof, provided he/she is then qualified to receive a license and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such
purposes, in the same manner as required of any new applicant.
   C.   Bond Required: A new bond shall be presented yearly at the time of
application for a renewal of any license under the terms of this chapter. (Ord.
2011-06, 2-22-2011)
4-2-14: TRANSFER OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   A.   Transfer Of License Prohibited: No license shall be transferable unless
otherwise specifically permitted as herein stated. Any license issued under the
terms hereof shall license only the applicant or, if a corporation, only the
applying corporation. If there shall be any change from those named in the
application, the license shall be null and void. Any license granted shall not
be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable
or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered
or the subject matter of any lien. Such license shall not descend by will or
the laws of intestate succession, but shall terminate upon the death of any
licensee. The trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee when such estate
consists in part of alcoholic beverages, may continue business of the sale or
manufacture of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may
exercise the privileges of deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the
death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration
of such license, but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy
or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the
license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection.
   B.   Change Of Location: Any license granted hereunder shall permit the sale
of alcoholic beverages only in the premises described in the application and
licenses. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location, as deemed by the local liquor commissioner, is a proper one for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law of this state and the terms and
provisions of this chapter. In order to receive a change of location, the owner
of the license must request, in writing, and with a statement under oath, shall
affirm that the premises to which removal is to be made complies in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter. If the local liquor
commissioner determines that the change of location is appropriate, the
commissioner may endorse upon said license permission to abandon the premises
therein described and remove therefrom to other premises approved by the
commissioner. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
4-2-15: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Persons Under The Age Of Twenty One: No licensee nor any officer,
associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall
sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person known by him to
be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient
or in need of mental treatment. No person, after purchasing or otherwise
obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor
to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service.
   B.   Premises Where Alcohol Is Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to permit any person to consume any alcoholic beverage or possess any
open alcoholic beverage container on the premises when the license prohibits
the sale or the offer for sale of alcoholic beverages.
   C.   Consumption Of Alcohol Outside Licensed Premises: It shall be a
violation of this chapter for any patron of any licensed premises to consume
any alcoholic beverage or possess any open alcoholic beverage container on the
premises that is outside the principal structure licensed or licensed beer
garden.
   D.   Knowledge By Owner: If the owner of the licensed premises or any person
from whom the licensee derives the right to possession of such premises, or the
agent of such owner or persons, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said
licensed premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent
or other person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter, to the
same extent as said licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
   E.   Act Or Omission Of Violation: Every act or omission of whatsoever
nature constituting violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any
officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee of any licensee, if said
act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to the act of such employer
or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the same
manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him personally.
   F.   Conviction Of Violation: Whenever any officer, director, manager or
other employee in a position of authority of any licensee under this chapter
shall be convicted of a violation of this chapter while engaged in the course
of his employment or while upon the premises described by said license, and
said license shall be revoked and the fees paid thereon forfeited, and said
bond given by said licensee to secure the faithful compliance with the terms of
this chapter shall be forfeited in like manner as if said licensee had himself
been convicted.
   G.   Noncompliance: Any other noncompliance with any provision of this
chapter shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   H.   Nuisance Declared: Every lot, parcel or tract of land, and every
building, structure, tent, railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment or
place whatsoever, together with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and
machinery located thereon, wherein there shall be conducted any unlawful
manufacture, distribution or sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon or
wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic liquor
intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other manner
used in violation of any of the provisions of this act is hereby declared to be
a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided by the laws of this state for
the abatement of public nuisances.
   I.   Fines: Any person, firm, corporation or other business entity violating
any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and for
the second or subsequent offense fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in
the county jail not more than six (6) months, or by both fine and imprisonment,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
the violation occurs or continues.
   J.   BASSET Training: In addition to or in lieu of the fines and penalties
hereinbefore stated, the commissioner may require that any person or business
entity that violates any provision of this chapter complete the beverage
alcohol sellers and servers education and training ("BASSET") and provide proof
of completion of the BASSET to the commissioner upon completion.
   K.   Revocation Of License; Bond Forfeited: In addition to the fines and
penalties hereinbefore stated, whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any
violation of this chapter, the license of said licensee may, in the discretion
of the commissioner, be revoked and all fees paid therein shall be forfeited,
and the bond given by said licensee to secure such licensee's faithful
compliance with the terms of this chapter shall be forfeited, and it shall
thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this chapter
for said licensee to continue to operate under said license. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-
22-2011)
4-2-16: REVOCATIONS AND SUSPENSIONS:
   A.   Grounds For Revocations And Suspensions: The following shall be grounds
for revocation or suspension of any retail liquor dealer's license:
      1.   Any violation of this chapter for which the licensee has been
convicted.
      2.   Payment by the licensee of any federal tax imposed on gambling or
gambling equipment under the United States Code.
      3.   Maintaining or operating a dramshop on any premises registered as a
place of business when activities are carried on which make the person or
persons so carrying on subject to any tax wagering.
      4.   Permitting unlawful gambling of any kind to be conducted on the
premises where any licensee carries on his business. (Ord. 2012-39, 9-6-2012)
   B.   Granting Licenses After Revocation: When any license shall have been
revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted to any person for the period
of one year thereafter for the conduct of the business of manufacturing,
distributing, or selling alcoholic liquor in the premises described in the
revoked license unless the revocation order has been vacated or unless the
revocation order was entered as to the licensee only.
Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a retail license
authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor incidental to a restaurant if:
      1.   The primary business of the restaurant consists of the sale of food
where the sale of liquor is incidental to the sale of food and the applicant is
a completely new owner of the restaurant; and
      2.   The immediately prior owner or operator of the premises where the
restaurant is located operated the premises as a restaurant and held a valid
retail license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the restaurant for
at least part of the twenty four (24) months before the change of ownership;
and
      3.   The restaurant is located seventy five (75) or more feet from a
school. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
4-2-17: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the village
to issue a license or permit or by the revocation or suspension of a license or
permit shall have the right to appeal the village decision to the liquor
commission. Such appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to
the mayor within five (5) days of the action of the commissioner which is
appealed and shall state the action that was taken and the reason the appeal is
being requested.
   B.   Liquor Commission: The liquor commission shall consider the appeal
within thirty (30) days after notice from the commissioner at which time the
applicant shall be entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The
liquor commission shall act on the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing
and shall either uphold the action of the commissioner or shall direct the
issuance of a license or permit which the village has denied or the reissuance
of a license or permit which the village had revoked. An official record shall
be utilized and kept for hearings on appeal. In any case where a licensee
appeals to the liquor commission from an order or action of the commissioner
having the effect of suspending or revoking a license, denying a renewal
application, or refusing to grant a license, the licensee shall resume the
operation of the licensed business pending the decision of the liquor
commission and the expiration of the time allowed for an application for
rehearing.
   C.   Appeal: Except as provided in this section, any order or action of the
commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a licensee, granting
or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or refusing to revoke or
suspend a license or refusing for more than thirty (30) days to grant a hearing
upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may, within twenty (20) days
after notice of such order or action, be appealed by any resident of the
village to the state liquor commission. In any case where a licensee appeals to
the state liquor commission from an order or action of the commissioner having
the effect of suspending or revoking a license, denying a renewal application,
or refusing to grant a license, the licensee shall resume the operation of the
licensed business pending the decision of the state liquor commission and the
expiration of the time allowed for an application for rehearing.
If an application for rehearing is filed, the licensee shall continue the
operation of the licensed business until the denial of the application or, if
the rehearing is granted, until the decision on rehearing.
In any case in which a licensee appeals to the state liquor commission a
suspension or revocation by a commissioner that is the second or subsequent
such suspension or revocation placed on that licensee within the preceding
twelve (12) month period, the licensee shall consider the suspension or
revocation to be in effect until a reversal of the commissioner's action has
been issued by the state liquor commission and shall cease all activity
otherwise authorized by the license.
The state liquor commission shall expedite, to the greatest extent possible,
its consideration of any appeal that is an appeal of the second or subsequent
suspension or revocation within the past twelve (12) month period. The appeal
shall be limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings of the
commissioner and village board of trustees if the village has adopted a
resolution requiring that such review be on the record. If such resolution is
adopted, a certified official record of the proceedings taken and prepared by a
certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter shall be filed by the
commissioner within five (5) days after notice of the filing of such appeal, if
the appellant licensee pays for the cost of the transcript. The state liquor
commission shall review the propriety of the order or action of the local
liquor control commissioner and shall consider the following questions:
      1.   Whether the commissioner has proceeded in the manner provided by
law; and
      2.   Whether the order is supported by the findings; and
      3.   Whether the findings are supported by substantial evidence in the
light of the whole record.
The only evidence which may be considered in the review, shall be the evidence
found in the certified official record of the proceedings of the local liquor
control commissioner. No new or additional evidence shall be admitted or
considered. The state liquor commission shall render a decision affirming,
reversing or modifying the order or action reviewed within thirty (30) days
after the appeal was heard. (Ord. 2011-06, 2-22-2011)
CHAPTER 3
VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND TEMPORARY MERCHANTS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: License And Compliance Required
4-3-4: Application For License; Nontransferability; Approval
4-3-5: Investigation Of Applicant; Fees; Issuance Or Denial Of License; Appeal
4-3-6: License Fees
4-3-7: Bond Requirements
4-3-8: Issuance And Exhibition Of License
4-3-9: Expiration And Term Of License; Renewals
4-3-10: General Restrictions
4-3-11: Mobile Vending Cart, Trailer And Vehicle Standards
4-3-12: Additional Street Vending Restrictions
4-3-13: Unlawful Conduct
4-3-14: Cancellation Of Sale
4-3-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-3-16: Exemptions From Provisions
4-3-17: Penalties
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the Village and its citizens. This chapter is not intended to prohibit or
hamper speech which is protected by the First Amendment, but merely to regulate
specific activities which are commercial in nature. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
LICENSING OFFICIAL: The Village Clerk or other person or persons designated by
the Village Board of Trustees.
MOBILE VENDING CART: A movable pushcart that is operated by a vendor standing
on the sidewalk.
MOBILE VENDING TRAILER: A mobile trailer operated by a vendor standing on or
within the frame of the trailer on the public rights-of-way between the curb
lines.
MOBILE VENDING VEHICLE: A motorized vehicle operated by a vendor standing on or
within the frame of the vehicle on the public rights-of-way between the curb
lines.
PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICER: A Licensing Officer, firefighter, or police officer.
SIDEWALK: That portion of the public right-of-way which is between the curb
lines or the lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property line intended
for the use of pedestrians in public places of the Village.
SIDEWALK VENDING: The peddling, vending, selling, displaying, or offering for
sale any item of tangible personal property or other thing of value from a
mobile vending cart by a vendor to persons on the public right-of-way including
sidewalks.
SOLICIT(ING): Taking or attempting to take, whether in person or by telephone,
orders for sale of food, beverages, goods, merchandise or services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether collecting advanced payments on
such sales or not.
SOLICITOR: An individual, including an employee or agent of a group of
individuals, partnership, or corporation, whether a resident of the Village or
not, who is taking or attempting to take, whether in person or by telephone,
orders for sale of food, beverages, goods, merchandise or services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether he is collecting advance payments
on such sales or not. This definition shall include any person who, for
himself, or for another person, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, or motor vehicle within the Village for the sole purpose of
exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
SPECIAL EVENT: The temporary use, with a valid permit, of public property,
including streets, beaches, parks, community centers and waterways, for the
purpose of conducting certain short term events such as art shows, music
concerts, fundraising events, sidewalk sales, amusement attractions, circuses,
carnivals, rodeos, swap meets, sporting events, including, but not limited to,
organized float trips, contests, street dances, tournaments, walk-a-thons,
marathons, races, exhibitions or related activities.
STREET VENDING: The peddling, vending, selling, displaying, or offering for
sale any item of tangible personal property or other thing of value from a
mobile vending trailer or vehicle situated on the public rights-of-way between
the curb lines by a vendor to persons on the sidewalk.
TEMPORARY: Six (6) months or less.
TEMPORARY MERCHANT: Any person, whether owner or otherwise, whether a resident
of the Village or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares, merchandise and services within the Village, and who,
in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure or motor vehicle within the Village for the exhibition and sale of
food, beverages, goods, merchandise or services.
VENDOR: Any person, including an employee or agent of a group of individuals,
partnership, or corporation, who sells or offers to take orders or sell food,
beverages, goods, or merchandise from a mobile vending cart, mobile vending
vehicle, or mobile vending trailer, or any other type of conveyance or from his
or her person. The word vendor shall include the words "hauler", "huckster" and
"peddler".
VILLAGE: The Village of Heyworth.
VILLAGE CLERK: The Clerk of the Village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010;
amd. Ord. 2019-46, 9-17-2019)
4-3-3: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any "vendor", "solicitor", or "temporary merchant", as
the same are defined in section
4-3-2 of this chapter, to engage in such business or to employ another in such
business within the corporate limits of the Village without first obtaining a
license from the Village in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. All
vendors, solicitors or temporary merchants must meet all applicable Village,
State, and Federal law and licensing requirements to be issued, and continually
maintain a Village issued license. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY; APPROVAL:
   A.   Applicants for a license under this chapter must file with the Office
of the Village Clerk an application furnished by the Village,**** which shall
contain the following information:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant; if the applicant is an
association, company or corporation, then it shall state its name along with
the names and descriptions of the persons who will be soliciting in the
Village.
      2.   Address, both legal and local.
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold.
      4.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship between the employer and the
applicant.
      5.   The proposed method of operation, length of time for which the right
to do business is desired, and if a motor vehicle is to be used, a description
of the same, together with license number or other means of identification.
      6.   Whether a permit or license issued to the applicant has been revoked
during the past five (5) years, and if so, where and when.
      7.   Personal identifying information of the applicant or the persons
acting on its behalf in the Village as may be necessary for the Village to
conduct a background investigation.
      8.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant or the persons acting
on its behalf in the Village has been convicted of a violation of any Federal,
State or Municipal law, the nature of the offense and the date, and the
punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
      9.   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time said application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery.
      10.   When the applicant proposes to peddle any prepared food product for
human consumption, a certification from the County Health Department, if
required, shall be necessary prior to issuance and throughout the duration of a
license.
   B.   No license issued hereunder shall be transferable.
   C.   The Village shall approve or deny the application within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the completed application and application fee. Any denial
may be appealed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. If not denied
within that period, the application shall be deemed approved.
   D.   Once a license is issued, the applicant has an affirmative duty to
maintain all applicable licenses and certifications and to notify the Village
Clerk in writing of any material change in the information provided by the
applicant in the original application.
   E.   A separate application and license must be applied for and issued by
the Village for a Village sponsored event. In the event a license is issued
that may be for the same term or date of a Village sponsored event but that was
not applied for specifically for participation in that event, such license
shall not be valid for participation at or near the Village sponsored event.
(Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010; Ord. 2021-42, 7-15-2021)
4-3-5: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; FEES; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
   A.   At the time of filing an original application, the applicant shall pay
an investigation fee to the Village Clerk, and in the event the applicant is a
business entity, a separate fee for each individual authorized to act on its
behalf in the Village, as follows:
      1.   For an investigation within the State of Illinois, an amount
established by the Village Board of Trustees and listed on the most current
Village license fee schedule.
      2.   For an investigation outside the State of Illinois, an amount
established by the Village Board of Trustees and listed on the most current
Village license fee schedule.
   B.   Upon receipt of such application, or application for renewal, the
Village Clerk shall cause an investigation to determine the validity and
completeness of the information presented on the application. Provided, where
application for renewal of a license is involved, and the Village Clerk has
received no complaint or allegation of any violation of this chapter or other
laws by the applicant, the licensing official may waive payment of the
investigation fee and issue the renewal license.
   C.   If the applicant or a person authorized to solicit on its behalf, has
been convicted of a violation of any Municipal, State or Federal laws, except
for minor traffic violations, in the previous five (5) years, or if the
applicant has made a false statement on the application, then it may be
disapproved. Such disapproval may be appealed pursuant to the provisions of
section
4-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-6: LICENSE FEES:
The vendor, solicitor or canvasser, or temporary merchant nonrefundable license
fee, in an amount established by the Village Board of Trustees and listed on
the most current Village license fee schedule, shall be paid in advance. (Ord.
2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-7: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Before any solicitor license, as provided herein, shall be issued for engaging
in the business of soliciting, as defined in section
4-3-2 of this chapter:
   A.   Every applicant plying his trade as an individual shall file with the
Village Clerk a bond in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   Every business association, company or corporation, which has employees
or agents acting in the capacity of solicitor shall file with the Village Clerk
a bond covering all such employees in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per employee to a maximum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   C.   The bond may be in form of a surety bond issued by a company licensed
to issue insurance in the State of Illinois, a money order or cashier's check
payable to the Village, or cash delivered to the Village Clerk. The bond shall
protect against any and all claims against the solicitor arising during the
effective dates of the license issued under this chapter and filed with the
Village Clerk within sixty (60) days of the expiration of any such license.
Solicitors shall notify each customer that they are bonded and that any claim
may be presented to the Village Clerk at the Village Hall during regular
business hours.
   D.   After expiration of a license, the Village Clerk shall, upon
application of the licensee, return the bond to the person designated in the
application sixty (60) days after receipt of application for return, unless the
Clerk has been notified of the pendency of any claim or cause of action by any
person upon the bond. If the Clerk received notice of a claim, the bond shall
not be released except as directed by a court or the person(s) submitting the
claim. After being licensed for two (2) years, without claims against the bond,
the above bonding requirements will be waived. (Ord. 2019-20, 4-4-2019)
4-3-8: ISSUANCE AND EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The licensing official shall notify the applicant whether his license
request is approved and shall issue a license. Such license shall show the
name, address, photograph of the licensee, the type of license issued, and the
kind of goods to be sold or type of sales to be solicited thereunder, the
amount of fee paid, the date of issuance and the date of expiration.
   B.   The licensing official shall notify the applicant if his license
request is disapproved, the reasons therefor, and advise him of the appeal
procedure pursuant to the provisions of section
4-1-12 of this title.
   C.   The license issued to the licensee hereunder by the Village shall be
exhibited in a conspicuous place if the licensee is using a vehicle or a
building in his business, and otherwise must be displayed on the outside
garment of the individual during hours of operation. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-9: EXPIRATION AND TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
   A.   Expiration And Term: All licenses issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire on the date specified in the permit. No license shall be
issued for a period longer than one year.
   B.   Renewals: Licenses which are not renewed for a minimum of two (2) years
from the date of the original issue shall, upon application for renewal, be
treated as an original application. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-10: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
Vendors, solicitors, and temporary merchants are subject to the following
restrictions:
   A.   No vendor, solicitor, or temporary merchant hereunder shall have any
exclusive right to any location in a public street or sidewalk, nor shall he/
she be permitted to operate in any congested area where his operations might
impede or inconvenience the public. This license does not preclude the issuance
of a special events permit or other permits that may be issued by the Village.
   B.   Vendors, solicitors, and temporary merchants shall be allowed to engage
in their licensed business only between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and one hour
after sunset unless located in a Commercially zoned area. In Commercially zoned
areas, vendors, canvassers, and solicitors shall be allowed to engage in their
licensed business between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, until three o'clock (3:00) A.M. on
the following day. Vendors, canvassers, and solicitors shall be allowed to
engage in their licensed business between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
on Friday and Saturday until five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following day in
Commercially zoned areas. All mobile vending carts, trailers, or vehicles must
be removed from public property during nonvending hours. If a special event
permit is sought, the Village may make an exception to the usual hours of
operation.
   C.   Any Public Safety Officer or Village Licensing Officer shall be
authorized to enforce this chapter.
   D.   1. Unless positioned on a designated identified vending location, a
mobile vending cart, trailer, or vehicle shall not be located:
         a.   Where clear pedestrian passage on the public sidewalk is less
than five feet (5') wide;
         b.   Within a midblock crosswalk area;
         c.   On the portion of a public sidewalk crossed by a public or
private driveway or within ten feet (10') of either side of the driveway; or
         d.   Within any street corner area.
         e.   Within five feet (5') from a perpendicular line drawn to the curb
from either side of a doorway.
         f.   In a manner in which the movement or visibility of vehicles using
the street or other public right of way is obstructed.
      2.   For purposes of this subsection, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them herein:
    MIDBLOCK CROSSWALK AREA: The sidewalk area which falls between the two (2)
lines fifteen feet (15') beyond each side of a marked midblock crosswalk area
(identified by the crosswalk lines delineated on the street pavement) and
perpendicular to the curb.
   STREET CORNER AREA: The sidewalk area at the intersection of two (2)
streets, circumscribed by curbs, the property lines abutting the sidewalk area,
and the line including the point along the curb of the street either fifteen
feet (15') from the outside line of a corner crosswalk or, where there is no
marked crosswalk, twenty five feet (25') from the curb line on the midpoint of
the intersecting streets.
   E.   Unless otherwise provided, mobile vending carts, trailers, or vehicles
shall not be placed within fifty feet (50') of another mobile vending cart,
trailer, vehicle, or identified vending location.
   F.   Mobile vending carts, trailers, or vehicles shall not be locked or
chained to a parking meter, tree, streetlight or other street furniture.
   G.   Mobile vending carts, trailers, and vehicles shall not be left
unattended on village streets or sidewalks for more than fifteen (15)
consecutive minutes.
   H.   Utility service connections are not permitted. Electrical lines are not
allowed overhead or lying in the pedestrian portion of the sidewalk. Village
streetlight facilities shall not be used in any way to supply electrical
service to a vendor site.
   I.   Vendors, solicitors, and temporary merchants shall keep the area of
operation free of debris. Vendors selling food or beverages must provide trash
receptacles and waste removal adjacent to or as a part of their operations. All
spilled food, beverages, grease, or other trash or debris accumulating within
twenty feet (20') of any mobile vending cart, trailer or vehicle shall be
cleaned and collected by the vendor and deposited in the vendor's trash
receptacle. The vendor is prohibited from depositing its waste, ice, and any
gray water or wastewater into sidewalk waste receptacles, privately owned
dumpsters, village planters, gutters or street drainage systems.
   J.   Mobile vending carts, trailers, or vehicles shall be maintained in such
a manner that prevents the spilling or splattering of grease, water, food, or
trash on any public right of way where the cart, trailer, or vehicle is
located. The cart, trailer, or vehicle owner shall be responsible for the
cleaning and repair of any public right of way soiled, stained, or damaged by
the placement and operation of his mobile vending operations.
   K.   No solicitor, vendor, or temporary merchant may participate at or near
a Village sponsored event unless a specific application is applied for and
issued by the Village for such event. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010; Ord. 2021-42,
7-15-2021)
4-3-11: MOBILE VENDING CART, TRAILER AND VEHICLE STANDARDS:
   A.   Mobile vending carts, trailers, and vehicles must be designed and built
meeting normal industry standards and used in a safe manner.
   B.   A mobile vending cart frame must not exceed five feet (5') wide by nine
feet (9') long by seven feet (7') high, and must be able to be pushed by one
person. The mobile vending cart must have a minimum of two (2) functional
rubber tired wheels. The braking mechanism on the mobile vending cart shall be
affixed in such a manner that it is not readily removable in order to secure
the cart when parked on the sidewalk. The use of ropes and shocks as the sole
braking mechanism is prohibited.
   C.   Generators on mobile vending carts, trailers, and vehicles powered by
gasoline are prohibited. Only generators powered by propane are acceptable. No
mobile vending cart shall carry more than two (2) 5-gallon containers of
propane on a public right of way. Generators shall not be placed on the ground.
   D.   Mobile vending carts, trailers, and vehicles must have the barbecue
grill enclosed and permanently built into the structure of the vendor cart,
trailer, or vehicle.
   E.   A five (5) pound "K" class handheld fire extinguisher is required if a
heating or cooking appliance is used.
   F.   With the exception of merchandise or food items to be sold, mobile
vending carts, trailers, and vehicles presented for inspection shall be exactly
as they will appear when operating on a public right of way, including any food
rack.
   G.   Support equipment and accessories, other than the generator and the
propane tanks, must not extend more than four feet (4') from the edge of the
cart, trailer, or vehicle in any direction and shall not be placed so as to
impede pedestrian traffic. Umbrellas, canopies, or other covers used on mobile
vending carts, trailers, or vehicles must be securely fastened. Its open
diameter may not exceed nine feet (9') with a minimum vertical clearance of
seven feet eight inches (7'8") and must not extend more than four feet (4')
from the edge of the cart, trailer, or vehicle in any direction.
   H.   Unsecured menu boards or sidewalk signs are prohibited.
   I.   Mobile vending carts, trailers, and vehicles shall have a clean
appearance at all times. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-12: ADDITIONAL STREET VENDING RESTRICTIONS:
In addition to the restrictions and qualifications contained in this chapter,
street vendors are additionally subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   Parking Restrictions: Vendor trailer or vehicles must at all times be
parked in a legal manner. Vending operations shall be conducted only to
pedestrians on sidewalks. No service to the public shall be made from the
street side of the vehicle(s).
   B.   "Open For Business" Sign: To differentiate between vending trailers or
vehicles that are merely legally parked on the street from those that are
actively engaged in vending operations, any street vending cart, trailer, or
vehicle must place an "open for business" sign on the cart, trailer, or vehicle
in a conspicuous manner when the vending operations are open for business.
Conversely, this sign must be taken down when vending operations have ceased.
(Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-13: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
No licensee hereunder shall:
   A.   Fail to comply with any of the requirements and restrictions set forth
in this chapter.
   B.   Misrepresent the purpose of or affiliation of those engaged in the
solicitation.
   C.   Continue efforts to solicit from an individual once that individual
informs the solicitor that he does not wish to give anything to or buy anything
from that solicitor.
   D.   Represent the issuance of any license under this chapter as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation.
   E.   Enter upon any premises when the same is posted with a sign stating "No
Peddlers Allowed" or "No Solicitation Allowed" or other words to such effect.
   F.   Commit fraud, make misrepresentations or make false statements in the
course of carrying on the business. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-14: CANCELLATION OF SALE:
The buyer shall have the right to cancel the door to door sale within three (3)
business days. A business day is any calendar day except Sunday, or the
following holidays: New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day,
Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day and
Christmas Day. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
See section
4-1-11 of this title for issues related to the suspension or revocation of a
license. (Ord. 2010-19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-16: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Any sales under court order.
   B.   Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or the like who
exclusively or primarily sell to or solicit orders for future delivery from
local retailers, local businesses, local governments, local schools, or local
wholesale firms.
   C.   The sale of farm or garden products by the person producing the same.
   D.   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person
engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper.
   E.   The occasional sale of admission by local school students to a function
of their school; or fundraising sales by local service clubs or groups; or
children selling concessions.
   F.   Any political group seeking funds or membership.
   G.   Garage, yard, or similar sales by individuals at their residence or
place of business not exceeding six (6) separate sales in one calendar year,
not to exceed three (3) days each, which sales shall not include business
inventory or items that have been purchased for the purpose of resale at
another garage sale.
   H.   Any organization exempt from taxation as provided by 26 USC 501 and
meeting all the requirements for the exemptions provided by USC 503.
   I.   Any activity conducted pursuant to a special events permit. (Ord. 2010-
19, 5-17-2010)
4-3-17: PENALTIES:
Any person, business, firm, company or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day a violation continues shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense. If a license is not obtained prior
to performing vending or soliciting, each person performing such action shall
be considered in violation and subject to penalty. (Ord. 2019-20, 4-4-2019)
CHAPTER 4
RAFFLES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose And Intent
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: License Required
4-4-4: Licensee Eligibility And Restrictions
4-4-5: License; Application And Administration
4-4-6: Conduct Of Raffles
4-4-7: Raffle Manager's Bond
4-4-8: Records
4-4-9: Appeals
4-4-10: Violations; Penalties
4-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations to
allow for raffles to be conducted in the Village in compliance with the Raffles
and Poker Runs Act 1  for eligible organizations. (Ord. 2018-24, 6-7-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meanings and
definitions as may hereinafter be defined or as may be found in 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 15/0.01 et seq.:
BUSINESS ORGANIZATION: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and
businesses who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interest of a community.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and operated
to benefit an indefinite number of the public.
EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and operated
to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods
common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their
scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported
schools.
FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION: An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by
the government.
LABOR ORGANIZATION: An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
MAYOR: The Mayor or President of the Village Board of Trustees of the Village
of Heyworth.
NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION: An organization or institution organized and conducted
on a not-for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to any one as a
result of the operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in the Criminal Code of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter in
which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances are to be designated the
winning chance; and
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by a random act or set of random
acts on the part of persons conducting or connected with the raffle, except
that the winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly
exhibited sporting contest.
RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION: Any church, congregation, society, or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS' ORGANIZATION: An organization or association comprised of members of
which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
VILLAGE: The Municipality of the Village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2018-24, 6-7-2018)
4-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances within the
Village of Heyworth without having first obtained a license therefor pursuant
to this chapter. (Ord. 2018-24, 6-7-2018)
4-4-4: LICENSEE ELIGIBILITY AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Licenses authorized by this chapter may only be issued to:
      1.   Bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal,
educational or veterans' organizations that operate without profit to their
members and which have been in existence continuously for a period of five (5)
years immediately before making application for a raffle license and which have
had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide membership engaged in
carrying out their organization's objectives; or
      2.   A non-profit fundraising organization that the Mayor or his/her
designee(s) determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing financial
assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals suffering
extreme financial hardship as a result of an illness, disability, accident or
disaster.
   B.   The following are ineligible for a license:
      1.   Any person whose felony conviction will impair the person's ability
to engage in the licensed position;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person as defined in the Raffles
Act has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which such a person
is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in the Raffles Act is an
officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not; or
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in the Raffles Act is to
participate in the management or operation of a raffle. (Ord. 2018-24, 6-7-
2018)
4-4-5: LICENSE; APPLICATION AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Application: No person, firm or corporation shall receive a license for
conducting raffles or chances within the Village without first submitting a
completed application approved by the Village and such person, firm or
corporation is eligible to obtain a license therefor pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Application Requirements: The application for a license must include
the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The area or areas within the Village in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued.
      3.   The time period(s) during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued.
      4.   The date(s), time(s), manner(s) and location(s) of determining the
winning chances.
      5.   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
prospective licensee organization, signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of that organization.
      6.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle.
      7.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle.
      8.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold.
      9.   Such other information as the Village may require.
   C.   Issuance: Licenses may be issued yearly or for a single raffle event.
   D.   Administration: The Mayor or his/her designee(s) is designated as the
person charged with the administration of the appropriate provisions of the
Illinois Raffles Act, this chapter, and receiving applications for a raffle
license.
   E.   Application Processing: The Mayor or his/her designee(s) shall act on a
license application within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the
application. (Ord. 2018-24, 6-7-2018)
4-4-6: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
   A.   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle.
      4.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter.
      5.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
      6.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be within the area
where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his parent
or guardian.
   B.   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be criminally liable if the person
who uses the premises for the determining of winning chances does not hold a
license issued by the Governing Body of any county or municipality, under the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-24, 6-7-2018)
4-4-7: RAFFLES MANAGER'S BOND:
All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffles manager designated by the organization. The manager shall give a
fidelity bond in the minimum amount of one dollar ($1.00). The bond shall be in
favor of the organization conditioned upon his/her honesty and the performance
of his/her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given
in writing to the Village not less than thirty (30) days prior to its
cancellation. The Mayor or his/her designee(s) may waive the bond requirement
with a waiver provision on the license if a unanimous vote of the members of
the licensed organization approves the waiver of the manager's bond. (Ord.
2018-24, 6-7-2018)
4-4-8: RECORDS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the State
of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership and to the Village its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of
net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   D.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to the
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2018-24, 6-7-2018)
4-4-9: APPEALS:
Any person whose application is denied may appeal the denial to the Village
Board. Such appeal shall be in writing and must be filed with the Village Clerk
within ten (10) days of the date of the written notice of denial. The Village
Board shall be presented a resolution approving the license and if a majority
of the Village Board approves the license, the license shall be approved. (Ord.
2018-24, 6-7-2018)
4-4-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Fine: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) and not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   B.   Suspension; Revocation: In addition to the penalties herein set forth,
raffle licenses may be suspended or revoked by the Mayor or his or her designee
(s) for any violation of this chapter. No license shall be suspended or revoked
without first affording the licensee an opportunity to contest the suspension
or revocation at a hearing conducted by the Mayor or his/her designee(s).
Notice of such hearing shall be in writing and submitted or served upon the
licensee no less than three (3) days before such hearing.
   C.   Violation: A violation of any provision of the Raffles and Poker Runs
Act 1  may also be subject to the penalty set forth in section 720 of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes, which makes a violation of that Act a Class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2018-24, 6-7-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Nuisance Abatement Charges And Penalties; Lien Provisions
5-1-1: NUISANCE ABATEMENT CHARGES AND PENALTIES; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Charges Established: Charges for the abatement of the nuisances
described in this chapter shall be as follows:
      1.   The minimum charge for administrative costs shall be two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00).
      2.   If any labor is provided by Village employees, such labor shall be
charged at the rate of sixty dollars ($60.00) per hour, in addition to the
minimum charge in subsection A1 of this section.
      3.   All costs of abating the nuisance, including, but not limited to,
all labor, expenses of abatement including the rental of any equipment or
disposal and all other costs incurred by the Village including reasonable
attorney fees. Abatement includes the cost of removing debris or litter which
may be necessary to cut weeds or other vegetation.
      4.   The cost of any independent contractor hired by the Village.
      5.   The costs of preparing the notice of violation and lien, recording
the lien, releasing the lien and determining ownership of the land.
   B.   Other Remedies: The Village Attorney may institute proceedings in the
name of the Village, in any court having jurisdiction over such matter, to
enforce any nuisance violation after proper notice has been provided and
failure to abate has occurred. The Village Attorney or prosecuting authority,
in addition to requesting any fines specified for such a violation, may request
any remedy provided for by law, which may include, but is not limited to,
requesting for an order to remedy a violation of this title or any other lawful
nuisance violation, or to prohibit future violations. (Ord. 2013-36, 9-19-2013)
   C.   Invoice Rendered; Failure To Pay; Lien Filed: Upon completion of the
abatement of the nuisance, the Village Administrator, the Village Clerk or a
duly authorized designee shall prepare and deliver an invoice for all charges
attributable to abatement and related activity. In the event said invoice is
not paid by the close of business on the tenth day following the date of the
invoice, the Village Attorney shall prepare and file a lien against the
property where said abatement occurred. (Ord. 2013-36, 9-19-2013; amd. Ord.
2017-20, 4-20-2017)
   D.   All Costs A Lien: All of the above costs shall be a lien against the
property and a charge against the owner or occupants. The lien shall be
recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds as soon as practical after the
nuisance is abated and the invoice for such charges being unpaid. The form of
the lien shall conform to the requirements of law. (Ord. 2013-36, 9-19-2013)
   E.   Notice Of Lien Claim; Release Of Lien: Notice of the lien claim filed
pursuant to this section shall be personally served or sent by certified mail
to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the
property for the taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities. The
notice must be provided after the removal activities have been performed and it
must: 1) provide the common address and parcel number of the property abated;
2) state the amount of the removal cost; 3) reference the date or dates when
the removal cost(s) were incurred; and 4) identify the applicable ordinance or
the ordinance violation. Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of,
or persons interested in, the land after a notice of lien has been filed, the
Village shall execute a release of the lien, and the Village Clerk shall cause
the release to be recorded in the County Recorder's Office. (Ord. 2018-63, 12-
6-2018)
   F.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien under this section
shall be sold for nonpayment of the charges. The proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges after deducting the costs, as in the case of the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosures shall be in equity in the
name of the Village.
   G.   Attorney To File Suit: The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and
directed to institute proceedings, in the name of the Village, in any court
having jurisdiction over such matter, against any land for which the Village
Clerk has recorded a notice of lien in the County Recorder's Office. (Ord.
2013-36, 9-19-2013)
ARTICLE A. DANGEROUS STRUCTURES, PROPERTY AND SUBSTANCES
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Dangerous Buildings
5-1A-2: Declaration Of Abandoned Property
5-1A-3: Abandoned Buildings; Garbage, Debris, Noxious Substances
5-1A-4: Hazardous Substances
5-1A-1: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Dangerous or unsafe buildings or uncompleted and
abandoned buildings within the corporate limits of the village are hereby
declared to be a nuisance and shall be remediated, abated or otherwise
addressed in the manner set forth in this section.
   B.   Authority To Abate: The village may demolish, repair, or enclose or
cause the demolition, repair, or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings or
uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the territory of the village and may
remove or cause the removal of garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious,
or unhealthy substances or materials from those buildings.
   C.   Application For Order To Abate: In order to abate the nuisance, the
village board of trustees shall apply to the circuit court of the county: 1)
for an order authorizing action to be taken with respect to a building if the
owner or owners of the building, including the lienholders of record, after at
least fifteen (15) days' written notice by mail so to do, have failed to put
the building in a safe condition or to demolish it; or 2) for an order
requiring the owner or owners of record to demolish, repair, or enclose the
building or to remove garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials from the building.
   D.   Recovery Of Costs; Lien; Foreclosure:
      1.   Recovery Of Costs: The cost of the demolition, repair, enclosure, or
removal incurred by the village or by a lienholder of record, including court
costs, attorney fees, and other costs related to the enforcement of this
section, is recoverable from the owner or owners of the real estate or the
previous owner, or both, if the property was transferred during the fifteen
(15) day notice period, and is a lien on the real estate; the lien is superior
to all prior existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes, if, within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the repair, demolition, enclosure, or removal,
the village or the lienholder of record who incurred the cost and expense shall
file a notice of lien for the cost and expense incurred in the office of the
county recorder.
      2.   Notice Of Lien: The notice shall consist of a sworn statement
setting out: a) a description of the real estate sufficient for its
identification; b) the amount of money representing the cost and expense
incurred; and c) the date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred by
the village, the lienholder of record, or the intervenes.
      3.   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner
of or persons interested in the property after the notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the village, the person in whose name the
lien has been filed, or the assignee of the lien, and the release may be filed
of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
      4.   Foreclosure Of Lien: The village may enforce the lien by instituting
foreclosure proceedings as in the case of mortgage foreclosures under article
XV of the code of civil procedure 1  or mechanics' lien foreclosures. An action
to foreclose this lien may be commenced at any time after the date of filing of
the notice of lien. The costs of foreclosure incurred by the village, including
court costs, reasonable attorney fees, advances to preserve the property, and
other costs related to the enforcement of this subsection, plus statutory
interest, are a lien on the real estate and are recoverable by the village from
the owner or owners of the real estate.
      5.   Assignment Of Lien: All liens arising under this subsection shall be
assignable. The assignee of the lien shall have the same power to enforce the
lien as the assigning party. (Ord. 2009-30, 3-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/15-1101 et seq.
5-1A-2: DECLARATION OF ABANDONED PROPERTY:
   A.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the village board of
trustees may petition the circuit court to have property declared abandoned
under this chapter if:
      1.   The property has been tax delinquent for two (2) or more years, or
bills for water service for the property have been outstanding for two (2) or
more years; and
      2.   The property is unoccupied by persons legally in possession; and
      3.   The property contains a dangerous or unsafe building. (Ord. 2009-30,
3-16-2009)
   B.   All persons having an interest of record in the property, including tax
purchasers and beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title to the
property, shall be named as defendants in the petition and shall be served with
process. In addition, service shall be had under section 15-1506 of the code of
civil procedure 1  as in other cases affecting property. (Ord. 2009-30, 3-16-
2009; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/15-1506.
5-1A-3: ABANDONED BUILDINGS; GARBAGE, DEBRIS, NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Notice Posted To Abolish, Repair Or Enclose Building And Remove Debris:
If a residential or commercial building is three (3) stories or less in height
as determined by the village, and the corporate official designated to be in
charge of enforcing the village building code determines that the building is
open and vacant and an immediate and continuing hazard to the village, then the
official shall be authorized to post a notice not less than two feet by two
feet (2' x 2') in size on the front of the building. The notice shall be dated
as of the date of the posting and shall state that unless the building is
demolished, repaired, or enclosed, and unless any garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are removed so that an
immediate and continuing hazard to the community no longer exists, then the
building may be demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or any garbage, debris, and
other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials may be removed
by the village.
   B.   Failure To Remedy; Additional Notice Requirements: Not later than
thirty (30) days following the posting of the notice, the village shall do all
of the following:
      1.   Cause to be sent, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a
notice to remediate to all owners of record of the property, the beneficial
owners of any Illinois land trust having title to the property, and all
lienholders of record in the property, stating the intent of the village to
demolish, repair, or enclose the building or remove any garbage, debris, or
other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials if that action
is not taken by the owner or owners.
      2.   Cause to be published in a newspaper published or circulated in the
village a notice setting forth: a) the permanent tax index number and the
address of the building; b) a statement that the property is open and vacant
and constitutes an immediate and continuing hazard to the community; and c) a
statement that the village intends to demolish, repair, or enclose the building
or remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials if the owner or owners or lienholders of record fail to
do so. This notice shall be published for three (3) consecutive days.
      3.   Cause to be recorded the notice to remediate mailed under subsection
B1 of this section in the office of the county recorder. Any person with a
current legal or equitable interest in the property objecting to the proposed
actions of the village board of trustees may file his or her objection in an
appropriate form in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Demolition, Repair, Enclosure And Cleanup By Village; Restrictions:
      1.   If the building is not demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or the
garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or
materials are not removed within thirty (30) days of mailing the notice to the
owners of record, the beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title
to the property, and all lienholders of record in the property, or within
thirty (30) days of the last day of publication of the notice, whichever is
later, the village shall have the power to demolish, repair, or enclose the
building or to remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials.
      2.   The village may proceed to demolish, repair, or enclose a building
or remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials under this section within a one hundred twenty (120)
day period following the date of the mailing of the notice if the village board
determines that the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal of any garbage,
debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials is
necessary to remedy the immediate and continuing hazard. If, however, before
the village proceeds with any of the actions authorized by this section, any
person with a legal or equitable interest in the property has sought a hearing
under this section before a court and has served a copy of the complaint on the
mayor, the village shall not proceed with the demolition, repair, enclosure, or
removal of garbage, debris, or other substances until the court determines that
that action is necessary to remedy the hazard and issues an order authorizing
the village to do so.
   D.   Notice Of Lien: Following the demolition, repair, or enclosure of a
building, or the removal of garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials under this section, the village shall file a
notice of lien against the real estate for the cost of the demolition, repair,
enclosure, or removal within one hundred eighty (180) days after the repair,
demolition, enclosure, or removal occurred, for the cost and expense incurred,
in the office of the county recorder. This lien has priority over the interests
of those parties named in the notice to remediate mailed under subsection B1 of
this section, but not over the interests of third party purchasers or
encumbrancers for value who obtained their interests in the property before
obtaining actual or constructive notice of the lien. The notice of lien shall
consist of a sworn statement setting forth: 1) a description of the real
estate, such as the address or other description of the property, sufficient
for its identification; 2) the expenses incurred by the village in undertaking
the remedial actions authorized under this section; 3) the date or dates the
expenses were incurred by the village; 4) a statement by the corporate official
responsible for enforcing the building code that the building was open and
vacant and constituted an immediate and continuing hazard to the community; 5)
a statement by the corporate official that the required sign was posted on the
building, that notice was sent by certified mail to the owners of record, and
that notice was published in accordance with this section; and 6) a statement
as to when and where the notice was published.
   E.   Release Or Enforcement Of Lien: The lien authorized by this section may
thereafter be released or enforced by the village as provided by law. (Ord.
2009-30, 3-16-2009)
5-1A-4: HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section and this section only, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
subsection:
   ABANDONED: 1. The property has been tax delinquent for two (2) or more
years; and
      2.   The property is not occupied by persons legally in possession.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: Means the same as in section 3.215 of the
environmental protection act.
   PROPERTY OR REAL ESTATE: All real property, whether or not improved by a
structure.
   UNSAFE: The property presents an actual or imminent threat to public health
and safety caused by the release of hazardous substances.
   B.   Authority To Remedy: The board of trustees may remove or cause the
removal of, or otherwise environmentally remediate hazardous substances and
petroleum products on, in, or under any abandoned and unsafe property within
the territory of the village. In addition, where preliminary evidence indicates
the presence or likely presence of a hazardous substance or a petroleum product
or a release or a substantial threat of a release of a hazardous substance or a
petroleum product on, in, or under the property, the board of trustees may
inspect the property and test for the presence or release of hazardous
substances and petroleum products.
   C.   Notice Requirements: Where, upon diligent search, the identity or
whereabouts of the owner or owners of the property, including the lienholders
of record, is not ascertainable, notice mailed to the person in whose name the
real estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this section.
   D.   Tests And Investigations: The court shall grant an order authorizing
testing under this section upon a showing of preliminary evidence indicating
the presence or likely presence of a hazardous substance or a petroleum product
or a release of or a substantial threat of a release of a hazardous substance
or a petroleum product on, in, or under abandoned property. The preliminary
evidence may include, but is not limited to, evidence of prior use, visual site
inspection, or records of prior environmental investigations. The testing
authorized in this subsection shall include any type of investigation which is
necessary for an environmental professional to determine the environmental
condition of the property, including, but not limited to, performance of soil
borings and groundwater monitoring. The court shall grant a remediation order
where testing of the property indicates that it fails to meet the applicable
remediation objectives.
   E.   Costs A Lien; Notice:
      1.   The cost of the inspection, testing, or remediation incurred by the
village or by a lienholder of record, including court costs, attorney fees, and
other costs related to the enforcement of this section, is a lien on the real
estate; except, that in any instances where the village incurs costs of
inspection and testing but finds no hazardous substances or petroleum products
on the property that present an actual or imminent threat to public health and
safety, such costs are not recoverable from the owners, nor are such costs a
lien on the real estate. The lien is superior to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances, except taxes and any lien obtained under section
5-1A-1 or
5-1A-3 of this article, if, within one hundred eighty (180) days after the
completion of the inspection, testing, or remediation, the village or the
lienholder of record who incurred the cost and expense shall file a notice of
lien for the cost and expense incurred in the office of the county recorder.
      2.   The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out: a) a
description of the real estate sufficient for its identification; b) the amount
of money representing the cost and expense incurred; and c) the date or dates
when the cost and expense were incurred by the village or the lienholder of
record. Upon payment of the lien amount by the owner of or persons interested
in the property after the notice of lien has been filed, a release of lien
shall be issued by the village, the person in whose name the lien has been
filed, or the assignee of the lien, and the release may be filed of record as
in the case of filing notice of lien.
   F.   Enforcement, Foreclosure Of Lien: The lien may be enforced by
foreclosure proceedings as in the case of mortgage foreclosures under article
XV of the code of civil procedure 1  or mechanics' lien foreclosures; provided,
that where the lien is enforced by foreclosure under either statute, the
village may not proceed against the other assets of the owner or owners of the
real estate for any costs that otherwise would be recoverable under this
section but that remain unsatisfied after foreclosure except where such
additional recovery is authorized by separate environmental laws. An action to
foreclose this lien may be commenced at any time after the date of filing of
the notice of lien. The costs of foreclosure incurred by the village, including
court costs, reasonable attorney fees, advances to preserve the property, and
other costs related to the enforcement of this section, plus statutory
interest, are a lien on the real estate.
   G.   Assignment Of Lien: All liens arising under this section shall be
assignable. The assignee of the lien shall have the same power to enforce the
lien as the assigning party. (Ord. 2009-30, 3-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/15-1101 et seq.
ARTICLE B. INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Definition
5-1B-2: Nuisance Declared
5-1B-3: Leaving Wrecked, Nonoperating Vehicles On Street
5-1B-4: Notice Requirements
5-1B-5: Impoundment Procedures
5-1B-6: Fine And Costs
5-1B-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least thirty (30) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered, damaged, or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own power. The term shall not include a motor vehicle which has been rendered
incapable of being driven under its own power, for a period of thirty (30) days
or less, in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations, nor to any
motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use, to "antique
vehicles" as defined by the Illinois Vehicle Code and licensed as such an
antique vehicle, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business
engaged in wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (Ord. 2009-48, 4-6-2009; amd.
Ord. 2018-31, 6-21-2018)
5-1B-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
"Inoperable motor vehicles", as defined in section
5-1B-1 of this article, whether on public or private property, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 2009-48, 4-6-2009)
5-1B-3: LEAVING WRECKED, NONOPERATING VEHICLES ON STREET:
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, or
junked vehicle on any street, highway or other public property in the Village.
(Ord. 2009-48, 4-6-2009)
5-1B-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
All persons are required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicles under
their control upon written notice received from the Board of Trustees or from
the Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department designated by the
Chief commanding such disposition of said inoperable motor vehicle. (Ord. 2009-
48, 4-6-2009)
5-1B-5: IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department designated
by the Chief is hereby authorized to remove or have removed an "inoperable
motor vehicle" as defined in section
5-1B-1 of this article. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully claimed
or disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   B.   The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department designated
by the Chief may enter upon private property at all reasonable hours for the
purpose of inspecting such vehicle, posting notice thereon, and removing and
impounding such vehicle, and it shall be unlawful for any person to prevent the
Chief of Police or his designee from entering on private property for purposes
of carrying out his duties hereunder or to interfere with him in the lawful
performance of his duties under the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2009-48,
4-6-2009)
5-1B-6: FINE AND COSTS:
Any person who violates the provisions of this article may be charged with such
violation and may be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. In addition
thereto, the court may order the payment of costs of abatement to the Village;
such costs shall be calculated in accordance with section
5-1-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-31, 6-21-2018)
ARTICLE C. TREES, SHRUBS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Injuring Trees And Shrubs In Public Places Prohibited
5-1C-2: Nuisance Weeds, Trees And Plants
5-1C-3: Height Of Weeds, Grass And Plants
5-1C-4: Notice To Abate
5-1C-5: Abatement By Village
5-1C-6: Fine And Costs
5-1C-1: INJURING TREES AND SHRUBS IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any public place.
(Ord. 2009-40, 4-6-2009)
5-1C-2: NUISANCE WEEDS, TREES AND PLANTS:
   A.   Weeds And Rank Vegetation: Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed,
thistle, cockleburs and any rank vegetable growth which exhales unpleasant or
obnoxious odors found growing in any lot or tract of land in the Village is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
   B.   Barberry Plants: It shall be unlawful and is declared a nuisance for
any person to plant or permit the growth of any bush of any species of tall,
common or European barberry, further known as Berberis vulgaris, or its
horticultural varieties within the Village. (Ord. 2009-40, 4-6-2009)
   C.   Diseased Or Infected Trees: It shall be unlawful and declared a
nuisance for any person to allow an elm tree infected with Dutch elm disease or
ash tree infected with the emerald ash borer to remain on his/her property
without being treated or removed. (Ord. 2018-62, 12-6-2018)
5-1C-3: HEIGHT OF WEEDS, GRASS AND PLANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of private property to permit any weeds,
grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants,
to grow to a height exceeding eight inches (8"), or to permit rank vegetable
growth which may conceal conditions or deposits dangerous to the public health
anywhere in the Village. Any such plants or weeds are hereby declared to be a
nuisance. (Ord. 2009-131, 12-7-2009)
5-1C-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Weed, Grass And Tree Growth Violation Notices: It shall be the duty of
the Village Administrator, the Village Clerk or a duly authorized designee to
serve or cause to be served a notice by personal service, notice posted on the
property or certified mail, return receipt requested, upon the owner or
occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in
violation of the provisions of this article and to demand the abatement of the
nuisance within ten (10) days.
   B.   Diseased Trees Violation Notice: It shall be the duty of the Village
Administrator, the Village Clerk, or a duly authorized designee to serve or
cause to be served a notice of such violation, by posting on the property,
personal service or certified mail to the person(s) to whom was sent the tax
bill for the general taxes on the property for the preceding taxable year for
the property on which a diseased tree is on such property in violation of the
provisions of this article, with such notice demanding abatement of the
nuisance within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 2018-62, 12-6-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-47,
9-17-2019)
5-1C-5: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
   A.   Weed, Grass And Tree Growth Violations: If a person served notice
pursuant to subsection 5-1C-4A of this article does not abate the nuisance
within ten (10) days, the Village may proceed thereafter to issue an ordinance
violation for such violation and/or abate the nuisance, keeping an account of
the expenses of the abatement. The expenses of the abatement by the Village
shall be charged to and paid by the owner or occupant.
   B.   Diseased Tree Violations: If a person served notice pursuant to
subsection 5-1C-4B of this article does not abate the nuisance within the
thirty (30) day period, the Village may proceed thereafter to issue an
ordinance violation for such violation and/or abate the nuisance, keeping an
account of the expenses of the abatement. The expenses of the abatement by the
Village shall be charged to and paid by the owner or occupant. (Ord. 2018-62,
12-6-2018)
5-1C-6: FINE AND COSTS:
Any person who violates the provisions of this article may be charged with such
violation and may be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation
continues constitutes a separate and distinct offense. In addition thereto, the
court may order the payment of costs of abatement to the Village. Such costs
shall be calculated in accordance with subsection 5-1-1A of this chapter. (Ord.
2009-131, 12-7-2009)
ARTICLE D. GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
SECTION:
5-1D-1: Definition
5-1D-2: Failure To Remove Garbage And Debris
5-1D-3: Notice To Abate
5-1D-4: Abatement By Village
5-1D-5: Fine And Costs
5-1D-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this article, "garbage and debris" shall include, but not be
limited to, "demolition materials", "garden trash", "land clearing wastes",
"mixed refuse", and "rubbish and trash" as those terms are defined in the Solid
Waste Disposal District Act, 70 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3105/3. (Ord. 2009-
41, 4-6-2009)
5-1D-2: FAILURE TO REMOVE GARBAGE AND DEBRIS:
It shall be unlawful and shall hereby be declared a nuisance for any owner of
private property to fail to remove garbage and debris from said private
property. (Ord. 2009-130, 12-7-2009)
5-1D-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
The Village Administrator, the Village Clerk or his duly authorized designee
shall serve, or cause to be served, a notice by personal service, notice posted
on the property or certified mail, return receipt requested, upon the owner or
occupant of any premises on which trash or debris has been allowed to
accumulate in violation of the provisions of this article and to demand the
abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days. (Ord. 2009-41, 4-6-2009; amd.
Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
5-1D-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
   A.   Authority Of Village To Abate: If a person served pursuant to section
5-1D-3 of this article does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days, the
Village may proceed thereafter to issue an ordinance violation for such
violation and/or abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expenses of the
abatement. The expense of the abatement by the Village shall be charged to and
paid by the owner or occupant as is detailed by this article. (Ord. 2009-130,
12-7-2009)
   B.   Lien: If the Village abates or causes the abatement of a nuisance as
specified herein, the Village Administrator, the Village Clerk or his designee
shall file a notice of lien with the County Recorder for the costs or expenses
incurred for the abatement of the nuisance within sixty (60) days after such
costs or expenses are incurred. The notice shall consist of a sworn statement
setting out: 1) a description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof; 2) the amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and 3) the date or dates when such cost and expense
was incurred by the Village 1 . (Ord. 2009-41, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-
20-2017)
   C.   Enforcement Of Lien: The Village may, if determined appropriate by the
Board of Trustees, foreclose a lien pursuant to the foreclosure requirements
under the Illinois Mortgage Foreclosure Law 2  or Mechanics' Lien Act 3 . This
foreclosure proceeding must be commenced within two (2) years after the date of
filing the notice of lien. (Ord. 2009-41, 4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13.
2 2. 735 ILCS 5/15-1101 et seq.
3 3. 770 ILCS 60/0.01 et seq.
5-1D-5: FINE AND COSTS:
Any owner of private property that violates the provisions of this article may
be charged with such violation and, upon conviction, may be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Each day a violation continues constitutes a separate and distinct offense. In
addition thereto, the court may order the payment of costs of abatement to the
Village. Such costs shall be calculated in accordance with subsection 5-1-1A of
this chapter. (Ord. 2009-130, 12-7-2009)
ARTICLE E. PUBLIC CAMPING
SECTION:
5-1E-1: Public Camping As A Nuisance
5-1E-2: Regulation Of Public Camping Necessary To Promote Public Health
5-1E-3: Public Camping Not Intended Use Of Public Property
5-1E-4: Definitions
5-1E-5: Public Camping Prohibited
5-1E-6: Exceptions To Prohibition
5-1E-7: Removal Of Campsite
5-1E-8: Disposition And Release Of Personal Property
5-1E-9: Penalty; Mitigation
5-1E-1: PUBLIC CAMPING AS A NUISANCE
   Public Camping, as the term is defined in this Article, is hereby declared
to be a nuisance within the Village.
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
5-1E-2: REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH:
   In an effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the
Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village hereby declare it necessary or
expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of diseases, to
regulate Public Camping, as that term is defined in this Article, within the
Village’s corporate limits.
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
5-1E-3: PUBLIC CAMPING NOT INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the Village
in any subsequent ordinance, the Village hereby declares that none of its
property is permitted nor intended to be used for Public Camping, as the term
is defined in this Article.
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
5-1E-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this Article:
 
BEDDING:                  A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for
                          bedding purposes.
                          Any physical space that is not within an established
                          structure, where Bedding or any stove or fire is
                          placed, established or maintained for the purpose of
CAMPSITE:                 maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not
                          such place incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to,
                          shack or any other structure, or any vehicle or part
                          thereof.
                          Items which would otherwise constitute Personal
                          Property under the terms of this Article, but which
                          (i) has no apparent utility or monetary value; (ii)
                          Personal Property which is unsanitary to store or
                          otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed
EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY: illegally; (iv) drug paraphernalia; (v) items
                          appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
                          evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person
                          cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to
                          possess; and, (vii) any items of food which can
                          reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish
                          within the next 30 days.
                          Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a
PERSONAL PROPERTY:        person and having apparent utility or monetary value,
                          except for Exempt Personal Property.
PUBLIC CAMPING:           To cause or participate in the establishment of, or
                          the act of remaining in or at, a Campsite.
 
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
5-1E-5: PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
   B.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
   C.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the Village.
   D.   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the Village for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in Public Camping in said vehicle.
   E.   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the Village for the purpose
of Public Camping, for two consecutive hours without permission from the Mayor
and Board of Trustees of the Village, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. midnight
and 6:00 a.m., shall be considered a violation of this Article.
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
5-1E-6: EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION:
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to engage in
Public Camping when done (i) in a manner specifically authorized by this Code;
(ii) after a formal declaration of the Village in emergency circumstances; or,
(iii) upon resolution of the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village, the
same may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this section, if the
Mayor and Board of Trustees of the Village finds such exemption to be in the
public interest and consistent with the goals and objectives of the Mayor and
Board of Trustees of the Village, and with such conditions imposed as the Mayor
and Board of Trustees of the Village deems necessary. Any conditions imposed
will include a condition requiring that the applicant provide evidence of
adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the Village for any
liability, damage or expense incurred by the Village as a result of the
activities of the applicant. Any findings by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of
the Village shall specify the exact dates and location covered by the
exemption.
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
5-1E-7: REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE:
   Removal of a Campsite in violation of this Article may occur under the
following circumstances:
   A.   Prior to removing a Campsite, the Village shall post a notice, 24-hours
in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the Campsite is deemed
to be necessary for one of the reasons in subparagraphs 1-4, below. If such
immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for causing the immediate removal of
such Campsite should be adequately documented by the appropriate person(s).
      1.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain access to
a property;
      2.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
      3.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or,
      4.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
poses a risk to the health and safety of the Village and its residents.
   B.   Upon any action pursuant to Section 5-1E-7 above, the person causing
such action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the Village, of the location of the
Campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this Article, so said
agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its
services to those persons.
   C.   If a 24-hour notice has been posted, and the 24-hour notice period has
passed, then the Campsite, as well as all Personal Property thereon, shall be
removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on behalf of the Village.
   D.   No portion of this Section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in Public Camping from removing their Personal Property
from the Campsite; however, such Personal Property that constitutes Exempt
Personal Property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that said
Exempt Personal Property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence.
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
5-1E-8: DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   All Personal Property removed from any Campsite which is not Exempt
Personal Property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the Village, for a minimum of thirty (30) days, during which time it shall be
reasonably available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
   B.   All Exempt Personal Property may be disposed of or retained as evidence
by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the Village.
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
5-1E-9: PENALTY; MITIGATION.
   A.   The penalty for any person’s first violation of this Article within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $75.
   B.   The penalty for any person’s second violation of this Article within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $150.
   C.   The penalty for any person’s third violation of this Article within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $350.
   D.   The penalty for any person’s fourth violation of this Article within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $500.
   E.   The penalty for any person’s fifth violation of this Article within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be $750.
   F.   The penalty for any person’s sixth or subsequent violation of this
Article within a rolling twenty-four (24) month period may be a monetary
penalty of $750 or incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time
allowed pursuant to Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-
2-9).
   G.   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
paragraphs A-F in this Section, and if consented to by the Village, the penalty
assessed to any person found in violation of this Article may be that said
person must engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and other
public facilities of the Village for an amount of time that, if the person
found to have violated this Article was being paid the minimum wage under
Illinois law, the amount paid for that person’s labors would have been equal to
the monetary penalty assessed under this Article.
   H.   The Village is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it,
at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this Article, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of said person
for a period of time that conforms with Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal
Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
   I.   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this Section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
Personal Property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the Campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this Article.
   J.   A separate offense of this Article shall be deemed committed on each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   K.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this Article, any
person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from the
premises where the Campsite is located.
(Ord. 2024- , 9-5-2024)
CHAPTER 2
BURNING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Burning Prohibitions
5-2-3: Permit To Burn
5-2-4: Safety Precautions
5-2-5: Exemptions
5-2-6: Penalties
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
AGRICULTURAL WASTE: Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated on a
farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such items
as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials, and landscape wastes.
GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food or food products.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, and yard trimmings.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products of
the combustion are emitted to the open air.
RESTRICTED AREAS: The area within the boundaries of the village, unless said
area is one thousand feet (1,000') from residential or other populated areas.
(Ord. 2012-47, 10-18-2012)
5-2-2: BURNING PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Open Burning: No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as
provided for in section
5-2-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Burning In Containers: No person shall cause or allow the burning of
any refuse in any chamber or apparatus, unless such chamber or apparatus is
designed for the purpose of disposing of the class of refuse being burned.
   C.   Limit On Burn Quantity: No person shall burn any materials either
individually or collectively that is larger than two (2) cubic yards at any
given time unless a permit is issued pursuant to section
5-2-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Time: The burning authorized herein may occur only between sunrise and
sunset and all shall be extinguished at sunset except for those fires allowed
for pursuant to subsection 5-2-5D of this chapter or unless a permit is issued
pursuant to section
5-2-3 of this chapter.
   E.   Wind Conditions: Any allowed burning may be conducted only on days when
the wind will not carry smoke or other products of combustion in the direction
of structures or persons of nearby properties. (Ord. 2012-47, 10-18-2012)
5-2-3: PERMIT TO BURN:
If a person or entity requires an exempted burn as listed in section
5-2-5 of this chapter that is in excess of two (2) cubic yards, or beyond the
dates or times allowed for such burns pursuant to subsections
5-2-2D and
5-2-5B of this chapter, an application approved by the village must be
completed and submitted to the village and permit issued by the village to such
person or entity for such a burn. (Ord. 2012-47, 10-18-2012)
5-2-4: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Constant Attention: Open fires shall be constantly attended by a
competent person not less than eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Fire Extinguishing Equipment: A garden hose connected to an active
water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment must be readily available
for use within ten feet (10') of any open fires.
   C.   Fire Extinguished: All fires shall be completely extinguished and not
allowed to smolder after substantial completion of the combustion. (Ord. 2012-
47, 10-18-2012)
5-2-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities are not in violation of this chapter unless they cause
"air pollution" as defined in state statutes or regulations of the state
environmental protection agency:
   A.   The open burning of agricultural waste, but only:
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated;
      2.   In areas other than restricted areas;
      3.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;
      4.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or airfields;
      5.   More than one thousand feet (1,000') from residential or other
populated area; and
      6.   When it can be affirmatively demonstrated that no economically
reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.
   B.   The burning of leaves and other landscape waste, but only:
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated;
      2.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminates;
      3.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or airfields; and
      4.   During the following time frames:
         a.   From March 1 and ending April 30 of each year; or
         b.   From October 1 and ending November 30 of each year.
   C.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when reasonably
necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official.
   D.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, firepits, recreational,
and cooking purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in areas where such burning is
consistent with other laws; provided, that no garbage shall be burned in such
cases.
   E.   The burning of waste gases; provided, that in the case of refineries,
all such flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
   F.   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like. (Ord. 2012-47, 10-18-2012)
5-2-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided shall be fined not less than thirty dollars ($30.00)
and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each
day a violation continues constitutes a separate and distinct offense.
   B.   1. Violation of sections
5-2-2,
5-2-3 and
5-2-5 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as follows:
 
First offense       $ 30.00
Second offense      50.00
Third offense       100.00
Subsequent offenses Not less than $100.00 nor more than $750.00
 
      2.   To avoid prosecution for a first, second, or third offense under
sections
5-2-2 through
5-2-5 of this chapter, a violator may, within ten (10) days of receiving a
citation, settle the citation by payment of one-half (1/2) of the specified
fine at the village hall. The chief of police is hereby authorized and directed
to cease prosecution of any citation so settled. (Ord. 2011-37, 8-16-2011)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Emergency Proclamation
6-1-3: Curfew Imposed
6-1-4: Additional Orders
6-1-5: Term Of Emergency
6-1-6: Notice Of Emergency Proclamation
6-1-7: Powers Of Police Retained
6-1-8: National Incident Management System Adopted
6-1-9: Penalty
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority
of law; or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the village,
excepting officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated
to duty with reference to said civil emergency. (1981 Code § 3-1)
6-1-2: EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION:
Whenever an emergency, as defined in section
6-1-1 of this chapter, exists, the mayor shall declare the existence by means
of a written declaration setting forth the facts which constitute the
emergency. (1981 Code § 3-2)
6-1-3: CURFEW IMPOSED:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor, he may order a general
curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the village
as a whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day
or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare. (1981 Code § 3-3)
6-1-4: ADDITIONAL ORDERS:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the mayor of the village may also
in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following
orders:
   A.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.
   B.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   C.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   D.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving
away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   E.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property. (1981 Code § 3-4)
6-1-5: TERM OF EMERGENCY:
The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of forty
eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the mayor
indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The mayor shall have the
power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each forty
eight (48) hour period during the time the said civil emergency exists. (1981
Code § 3-5)
6-1-6: NOTICE OF EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION:
Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the mayor shall notify the
news media situated within the village, and shall cause three (3) copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the village: the village hall, the township fire
station and the post office. (1981 Code § 3-6)
6-1-7: POWERS OF POLICE RETAINED:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this code giving powers to the police, but shall be construed
together with existing ordinances now in effect for the safety and welfare of
the citizens of the village. (1981 Code § 3-9)
6-1-8: NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ADOPTED:
The national incident management system is hereby adopted and employed by the
village as its concept for planning, emergency response in unified command for
all critical incidents, declared disasters and other emergencies within the
village. All elected officials, officers, employees and agents of the village
are hereby directed to utilize the NIMS concept for planning for any of the
foregoing incidents. (Res. 2004-14, 12-6-2004)
6-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or executive order issued
pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the village, and shall be
punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1981 Code § 3-7; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION
SECTION:
6-2-1: Short Title
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: Police Authority
6-2-4: Animal Regulations
6-2-4-1: Running At Large
6-2-4-2: Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
6-2-4-3: Disturbing The Peace
6-2-4-4: Animal Bites
6-2-4-5: Diseased Or Injured Animals
6-2-4-6: Cruelty To Animals
6-2-5: Dogs And Cats
6-2-5-1: Running At Large
6-2-5-2: Rabies Inoculation And Tag
6-2-5-3: Dog Registration Requirements
6-2-5-4: Removal Of Feces Required
6-2-5-5: Harboring Stray Animals
6-2-5-6: Stray And Feral Cats
6-2-5-7: Responsibilities Imposed On Those Who Feed Stray Or Feral Cats
6-2-6: Livestock Regulations And Permit Requirements
6-2-7: Application Of Other Regulations
6-2-8: Violation; Penalties
6-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ANIMAL CONTROL AND REGULATION ACT. (Ord.
2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
BITTEN: Seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person or thing seized has
been nipped or gripped and has been wounded or pierced.
CAT: Includes all animals, male and female, of the feline species.
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS: Beat, torment, starve, overwork or otherwise abuse or treat
any animal in a commonly recognized cruel manner.
DANGEROUS ANIMALS: Includes any of the following animals, including hybrids
thereof: lion, tiger, leopard, elephant, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay,
mountain lion, lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, civet, serval, hyena, bear, wolf, or
coyote, any poisonous or life threatening reptile or any other animal commonly
deemed fierce by society or the law. A life threatening reptile is any member
of the crocodilian family or any constricting snake six feet (6') or over in
length, such as a boa, python, or anaconda.
DANGEROUS DOG:
   1.   Any individual dog anywhere other than upon the property of the owner
or custodian of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended by its owner or
custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would believe poses
a serious and unjustified imminent threat or serious physical injury or death
to a person or a companion animal; or
   2.   A dog that, without justification, bites a person and does not cause
serious physical injury.
   3.   A dog that is deemed dangerous by the McLean County Animal Control or
its successor.
DOG: Includes all animals, male and female, of the canine species that are four
(4) months of age or older.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Includes, but is not limited to, dogs, cats, horses, mules,
cattle, sheep, swine, or domestic fowl of the species of geese, ducks, turkeys,
hens, barn fowls, guinea fowls or peacocks.
OWNER: Any person or persons keeping or harboring an animal or having it in
their care or acting as its custodian or permitting an animal to remain on or
about any premises occupied by such person(s). In the event that the owner,
harborer, or keeper of any animal is a minor, the parent or guardian of such
minor shall be responsible to ensure that there is compliance with all
provisions of this chapter, and it shall be illegal for such parent or guardian
to fail to prohibit any violation of this chapter by a minor.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Any dog or animal not restrained or under physical control by
leash, chain, fence or other device, whether on or off the premises of the
owner.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death or any individual dog that has been found to
be a dangerous dog upon three (3) separate occasions.
(Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008; amd. Ord. 2020-52, 8-20-2020; Ord. 2024-52, 9-5-2024)
6-2-3: POLICE AUTHORITY:
The police department is hereby authorized, empowered and ordered to exercise
all powers and duties necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   A.   Impoundment: The police department may impound or may cause to be
impounded any dog or cat if the dog or cat is not restrained as required by
this chapter.
   B.   Notice And Issuance Of Warrants: Whenever a police officer or another
authorized employee of the village finds a dog(s) running at large or any other
violation of this chapter, the police officer or other duly authorized person
may complete and serve to one or more of the owners of the dog(s) a citation or
complaint. The citation or complaint may contain a notice for the defendant to
appear at a hearing or appear in court at a specific time and date to respond
to the charges contained therein. If the defendant does not appear in court as
specified, a warrant may be issued for the defendant's arrest to have the
defendant brought before the court to respond to the charges in the citation or
complaint. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-4: ANIMAL REGULATIONS:
6-2-4-1: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any animal to run at large within the
corporate limits of the village unless otherwise specified in this chapter. Any
animal which runs at large in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and such animal may be apprehended and impounded if found
running at large by any police officer, animal warden, or other person
authorized by the village. The owner or custodian of any animal that permits,
suffers, or allows the same to run at large shall be in violation of this
chapter and subject to the penalties as set forth in section
6-2-8 of this chapter.
   B.   In addition to the penalties set forth in section
6-2-8 of this chapter, the owner or custodian of any animal impounded by the
village for running at large shall be fined an additional ten dollars ($10.00)
per day penalty for each day the animal is impounded. The day the animal is
impounded shall constitute the first day of impoundment. (Ord. 2012-46, 10-18-
2012)
6-2-4-2: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to possess,
house, or keep any dangerous animal, as defined in this chapter, in the village
unless a permit for a special event or occurrence for the same is granted by
the village board of trustees.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to possess,
house, or keep any dangerous or vicious dog, as defined in this chapter, in the
village. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008; amd. Ord. 2020-52, 8-20-2020)
6-2-4-3: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for an owner to keep, harbor, or otherwise maintain any
animal in the village which, by barking, howling, or by other noises, shall
disturb the peace and quiet of any family, individual or neighborhood. Any
owner, possessor, keeper or harborer of any animal that disturbs the quiet of
any neighborhood shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to the
penalties as set forth in section
6-2-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-4-4: ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Seizure Of Animal: It shall be the duty of the owner or person having
custody of any animal that has bitten another person or animal to lock said
animal in an enclosure until a licensed veterinarian may examine the animal and
prescribe proper procedures. If such animal should die or show definite signs
of illness, it shall be the duty of the owner or person having custody of the
animal to turn the animal over to the county health office or village police
department. Any animal which bites another person is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and such animal may be apprehended and impounded by any police
officer, animal warden, or other person authorized by the village, unless it
attacks or bites a person while in the course of protecting a person being
attacked or threatened.
   B.   Medical Attention Required: Should any public official or employee or
other representative of the village be bitten by any animal and medical
attention is provided for said bite, the owner of said animal shall be liable
for any costs incurred for said bite unless it attacks or bites a person while
in the course of protecting a person being attacked or threatened. The owner
shall also be in violation of this chapter and subject to the penalties as
determined in section
6-2-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-4-5: DISEASED OR INJURED ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be illegal for any person to bring into the village any
diseased or sickly horse, cow (or bull), swine, dog, cat, or other animal of
any kind or nature or any animal that has been exposed to any disease that is
contagious among such animals.
   B.   It shall be illegal for any person to keep, retain, or allow to be kept
or retained, at any place within the village, any horse, ass or colt having the
disease known as glanders or farcy.
   C.   Any animal in any street or public place within the village and
appearing, in the estimation of any police officer or representative of the
county health department, to be injured or diseased past recovery for any
useful purpose, and not being attended and properly cared for by the owner or
some proper person having charge thereof for the owner, or not having been
removed to some private premises or to some place designated by such officer or
representative, may be deprived of life by such officer or representative or as
he may direct, and shall thereafter, unless at once removed by the owner, be
treated as any other dead animal found on a street or place. No person other
than police officers or representatives of the county health department or
persons authorized by contract or other authority shall in any way interfere
with such dead, sick or injured animal in any street or place, and no person
shall skin or wound such animal in such street or public place unless to
terminate its life as herein authorized; except, that the owner or person
having control of such animal may terminate the life thereof in the presence
and with the consent of a police officer or representative of the county health
department. It is illegal for any person to engage in or do any acts prohibited
in this chapter. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-4-6: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be illegal and a violation of this chapter for any person to be cruel
to any animal. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-5: DOGS AND CATS:
6-2-5-1: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to permit any dog or cat to run at large
in the village unless the dog or cat is on the premises of the owner. Any dog
or cat which is unsupervised and is in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public
place without being restrained shall be deemed to be running at large.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat or anyone having a
dog or cat in his possession not to keep the dog or cat from running at large,
and all dogs or cats shall be kept under restraint and control at all times
while the animal is off of the premises of the owner(s), possessor(s) or
custodian(s). For the purposes of this subsection, a dog or cat is under
restraint and control when:
      1.   It is securely confined within a vehicle, parked or in motion; or
      2.   It is properly confined within a secure enclosure with the
permission of the owner of the property where the enclosure is located; or
      3.   It is physically controlled at all times by the owner or authorized
person with a chain, cord or leash of sufficient strength and connection to the
animal to prevent escape. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-5-2: RABIES INOCULATION AND TAG:
   A.   Inoculation Required: It shall be the duty of every owner who keeps,
harbors, or otherwise maintains a dog or cat more than four (4) months of age
in the village to have the same inoculated against rabies by a licensed
veterinarian. Dogs must have a valid rabies certificate according to the laws
of the state of Illinois. For dogs, the type and brand of the antirabic vaccine
used and the method of inoculation shall be in accordance with and evidenced by
a rabies tag specified by the applicable laws of the state of Illinois. Failure
to comply with this subsection will be a violation of this chapter and subject
to the penalties as set forth in section
6-2-8 of this chapter.
   B.   Collar And Tag: Every owner shall provide each dog more than four (4)
months of age kept, harbored, or otherwise maintained by him/her in the village
with a sturdy collar to which the aforesaid rabies tag shall be securely
fastened, and it shall be the duty of the owner to make certain that the collar
and tag are worn at all times by the dog when off the premises of the owner.
(Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-5-3: DOG REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Required; Tag: It shall be unlawful for any person to own
or have in his/her possession or custody a dog which is not currently
registered with the county as required by applicable law. Any person owning or
having a dog in his/her possession or custody must have displayed upon the dog,
or in the immediate possession of the person then in control of the dog, proof
that the dog has been vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian, which must be
displayed upon demand by a police officer or county animal control officer. A
metal tag, commonly called a "dog tag", showing current vaccination of the dog
shall create a presumption that the dog is registered with the county; however,
this presumption shall not apply if the police officer or animal control
officer has information that the dog is not in fact registered.
   B.   Impoundment And Redemption Provisions: Police officers of the village
and county animal control officers are authorized to summarily seize as a
public nuisance any dog for which proof of current vaccination is not displayed
or in the immediate possession of the person then in custody or possession of
such dog. Police officers and county animal control officers are similarly
authorized to summarily seize as a public nuisance any dog for which the police
officer or animal control officer has information that the dog is not
registered with the county. Such officers shall not relinquish such dog until
proof of current registration is supplied by the owner or custodian of such
dog. A dog which is not currently registered as required by law shall not be
released unless payment for such registration is made to the county. A dog
which is not claimed after seven (7) business days from the date of seizure
(not counting the date the dog is seized) shall become the property of the
county.
   C.   Exemption From Registration: The requirement that a dog be registered
with the county shall not apply to persons owning or possessing a dog which is
temporarily in the village as an entrant in a public exhibition, contest or
show sponsored by a dog club association or similar organization held in the
village. However, for this exception to apply, the sponsor of the exhibition,
contest or show must have given prior written notice of the public exhibition,
contest or show to the village clerk and the county health department.
   D.   Penalties: The penalty for violation of this section shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00) for a first offense, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a
second offense, and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for third and
subsequent offenses 1 . (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-4A-2A6 of this code.
6-2-5-4: REMOVAL OF FECES REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in control of any dog or
cat to permit such animal to deposit feces on any public street, alley, parkway
or other public place, or on any premises other than those of the owner or
person in control of such animal, unless the owner or person in control of such
animal immediately collects and properly disposes of the feces deposited by the
animal.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in control of any dog or
cat to deposit feces collected from such animal on any premises other than that
of the owner or person in control of such animal.
   C.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense and not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) for any subsequent offense. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-5-5: HARBORING STRAY ANIMALS:
   A.   Stray Dogs and Cats: Stray dogs and cats are a menace to public health
and endanger bird and other life, and the running at large of any dog or cat
within the limits of the Village is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
prohibited. Any dogs or cats not equipped with a tag around their collar
identifying the owner thereof, or any cat without a bell or other device
capable of making a noise shall be deemed a stray dog or cat.
   B.   A person who habitually feeds any cat, dog, or other domestic or wild
animal, not owned by him or her, on a regular or irregular basis, or cares for
or actively seeks the attention of said cat, dog or other domestic or wild
animal at or upon his or her property or within the Village shall be guilty of
harboring a stray animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor a stray
or unowned or unclaimed domestic or wild animal in the Village. (Ord. 2023-51,
11-2-2023)
6-2-5-6: STRAY AND FERAL CATS:
The Village finds and declares that the proliferation of stray cats and feral
cats pose a potential danger to the health, safety, and general welfare of the
public. (Ord. 2023-51, 11-2-2023)
6-2-5-7: RESPONSIBILITIES IMPOSED ON THOSE WHO FEED STRAY OR FERAL CATS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to feed stray or feral cats, if
such feeding causes a nuisance to neighbors or creates a condition contrary to
the health, safety, and welfare of the community.
   B.   Any person who undertakes to feed stray or feral cats shall assume
responsibility and be liable for any damage to persons or property caused by
the cats. In addition, such person shall be liable for and assume
responsibility for seeing that the stray and feral cats are:
      1.   Neutered or spayed to prevent procreating;
      2.   Immunized against rabies and vaccinated in compliance with the laws
of the state of Illinois;
      3.   Appropriately “tipped” on an ear to signify that they have been
neutered/spayed and immunized. (Ord. 2023-51, 11-2-2023)
6-2-6: LIVESTOCK REGULATIONS AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The purpose and intent of this section is to
establish regulations for the possession, housing and permitting of livestock
within the village, as well as for the administration and enforcement of such
permitting and regulations, in order to promote the health, safety and welfare
of the people in the village.
   B.   Definition:
 
           Shall include, but not be limited to, cattle, sheep, swine, goats,
LIVESTOCK: horses, fowl, poultry, and other animals ordinarily raised or used
           on a farm.
 
   C.   Permit Required; Exemptions:
      1.   Permit Required: No livestock shall be allowed within the village
without application to and receipt of a permit issued by the village board of
trustees of unless exempted as set forth in this section. No such permit shall
be issued unless the regulations and provisions set forth in this section
6-2-6 are met.
      2.   Exemption; Permit Not Required: Livestock shall be allowed and no
permit need be applied for or received from the village if a property meets the
following requirements:
         a.   The property is zoned A Agriculture as defined and specified in
the Zoning Code, section
11-1-1 et seq. of this code;
         b.   The property is twenty (20) or more acres in size; and
         c.   The property is not adjacent to a Residence zoning district per
the Zoning Code, section
11-1-1 et seq. of this code.
   D.   Livestock Regulations:
      1.   No livestock shall be allowed or permitted on any property within
the Village of Heyworth that is not zoned R1 Single-Family Residence, R2 Mixed
Residence, or A Agriculture.
      2.   Livestock Regulations Specific To A Agriculture Zoned Districts:
         a.   If an A Agriculture zoned property is in excess of twenty (20)
acres and is adjacent to residentially zoned property, then:
            (1)   No cattle, swine or roosters shall be permitted.
            (2)   No livestock, other than poultry and fowl, shall be housed or
allowed to be closer than two hundred feet (200') of any property line abutting
a residentially zoned property.
            (3)   No livestock, other than poultry and fowl, shall be housed or
allowed to be closer than fifty feet (50') of any property line abutting
commercial or industrial zoned property.
            (4)   No more than twenty (20) livestock in combination shall be
permitted on the property at any given time.
            (5)   Permanent coops for poultry and fowl must be situated at
least five feet (5') from immediately adjacent residential property lines, and
moveable chicken coops are allowable on the lot but must be moved to the side
or rear yards during non-daylight hours.
         b.   If an A Agriculture zoned property is less than ten (10) acres
but greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet and is adjacent to
residentially zoned property, then:
            (1)   Only goats, poultry and fowl shall be allowed.
            (2)   No roosters shall be allowed.
            (3)   No more than twenty (20) livestock in combination shall be
permitted on the property at any given time.
            (4)   No onsite slaughtering of livestock shall be permitted.
            (5)   No livestock, other than poultry and fowl, shall be housed or
allowed to be closer than twenty feet (20') of any property line.
            (6)   Housing Of Poultry And Fowl:
               (A)   All poultry and fowl must be kept in a secure enclosure (a
"coop") during non-daylight hours. During daylight hours, poultry and fowl may
be located in a pen (a "run") or in a securely fenced yard.
               (B)   Coops must be constructed and maintained in a safe and
workmanlike matter with materials generally utilized for chicken or other
similar coops.
               (C)   Permanent coops must be situated at least five feet (5')
from immediately adjacent residential property lines, and moveable chicken
coops are allowable on the lot but must be moved to the side or rear yards
during non-daylight hours.
               (D)   Coops must be kept in a neat and sanitary condition at all
times and must be cleaned on a regular basis to prevent offensive odors, the
attraction of rodents or predators, and the spread of disease.
         c.   No livestock shall be permitted for a property less than five
thousand (5,000) square feet.
      3.   Livestock Regulations Specific To R1 And R2 Zoned Residence
Districts:
         a.   No livestock, other than female chickens, are allowed on or
within R1 or R2 zoned residence districts within the village subject to the
following requirements:
            (1)   Lot size must be no less than five thousand 5,000 square
feet.
            (2)   A maximum of eight (8) chickens are permitted.
            (3)   No onsite slaughtering of chickens shall be permitted.
            (4)   Housing Of Chickens:
               (A)   All chicken must be kept in a secure enclosure (a "coop")
during non-daylight hours. During daylight hours, chickens may be located in a
pen (a "run") or in a securely fenced yard.
               (B)   Coops must be constructed and maintained in a safe and
workmanlike matter with materials generally utilized for chicken coops.
               (C)   Permanent coops must be situated at least five feet (5')
from immediately adjacent residential property lines, and moveable chicken
coops are allowable on the lot but must be moved to the side or rear yards
during non-daylight hours.
               (D)   Coops must be kept in a neat and sanitary condition at all
times and must be cleaned on a regular basis to prevent offensive odors, the
attraction of rodents or predators, and the spread of disease.
            (5)   Applicants shall provide written notice to all adjacent
property owners:
               (A)   On a form approved by the village that notifies each
adjacent property owner of the permit request, the way to provide written
objection or support of the permit request, and the date and time by which
forms must be submitted to the village;
               (B)   Adjacent property owners include any property that is
contiguous to the subject property including in front of, behind, beside, or
catty-corner; and
               (C)   Such notice may be delivered in person, by mail or by
electronic mail; and
               (D)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to determine the
adjacent properly owners and their contact information.
      4.   Any property housing livestock shall be registered with the Illinois
Department of Agriculture Premises Registration and Animal Identification
Program.
      5.   If property adjacent to an A Agriculture zoned property that has
livestock is rezoned to residential zoning per the Zoning Code, any livestock
shall be allowed to be kept and maintained for a period of three (3) years from
the date of the rezoning unless a permit is issued otherwise by the village.
   E.   Permit And Application Requirements: In addition to the other
provisions of this section, the following are requirements for livestock
permits and applications:
      1.   Permits shall be valid for no more than ten (10) years from the date
of issuance.
      2.   Once a permit has expired, no livestock shall be permitted on the
property unless a new permit is applied for and issued by the village.
      3.   Permits shall only be valid for the permittee at the property
address permitted.
      4.   No permits are transferrable.
      5.   Such permit shall only be valid if not in violation with any
applicable local, state, federal or administrative laws, including, but not
limited to, any restrictive covenants applicable to the subject property or
structures for housing such livestock.
      6.   It is the responsibility of the applicant to be familiar with and
compliant with any applicable local, state, federal or administrative laws,
including any applicable restrictive covenants.
      7.   The village code compliance officer shall review all permit
applications and make a recommendation to the village board for appropriateness
of a permit. Recommendations shall minimally address the completeness of the
application, compliance with the provisions of this section, including housing
requirements for the livestock, and provide a recommendation of approval or
denial based on the review of the application to these provisions.
      8.   Applicants shall execute an affidavit with the application attesting
to compliance with the requirements of these provisions, including verification
of written notice being provided to all adjacent property owners, and
compliance with all applicable laws.
   F.   Violations; Penalties; Enforcement:
      1.   Any person or entity in violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a new and separate offense. Any
person or entity found in violation of any provisions of this section for a
second or more offense may also have any issued livestock permit revoked.
      2.   Any applicant for a livestock permit that provides inaccurate or
false information on the application, fails to provide written notice of such
application as required in this section, or if any permit is issued in
violation of any other local, state, federal or administrative law that would
otherwise prevent such property housing, maintaining or otherwise allowing
livestock, including restrictive covenants, shall be declared null and void.
      3.   Enforcement: The village code compliance officer or his/her designee
shall have the duty and responsibility to assure compliance with the provisions
of this section and shall be able to take such reasonable and lawful measures
to do so, including, but not be limited to, enter upon and inspect the premises
and pursue violations and enforcement if compliance is not obtained. (Ord.
2008-37, 11-3-2008; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2020-39, 6-4-2020)
6-2-7: APPLICATION OF OTHER REGULATIONS:
All other state and federal statutes or provisions applicable to this chapter
which are or may hereafter be in force and are applicable to the village are
hereby incorporated into and declared to be a part of this chapter the same as
if they were expressly set forth herein. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008)
6-2-8: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any violation of this chapter is declared to be and constitutes a nuisance. Any
person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense 1 . A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day that said violation continues. If any animal is
taken to an animal shelter, the owner shall pay the animal shelter release fee.
For all subsequent offenses, the alleged violator hereof shall pay the shelter
release fee, plus be charged with a violation of this chapter.
In addition to the requirements herein imposed, any person who harbors or feeds
feral or stray cats shall receive a 30-day warning to cease and desist on
feeding the feral cats and such person comply with the requirements set forth
in Section
6-2-5-7(B) above. Failure to gain compliance within 30 days shall result in a
Two Hundred Fifty Dollar ($250.00) fine. Failure to gain compliance within 60
days shall result in a Five Hundred Dollar ($500.00) fine. Failure to gain
compliance within 90 days shall result in a Seven Hundred Fifty Dollar
($750.00) fine. (Ord. 2008-37, 11-3-2008; amd. Ord. 2023-51, 11-2-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-4A-2A of this code.
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Unlawful Assemblies
6-3-2: Disturbing The Peace
6-3-3: Disorderly Conduct
6-3-4: Alcohol Offenses
6-3-5: Littering
6-3-6: Penalty
6-3-1: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
Any two (2) or more persons who shall assemble in the Village for an unlawful
purpose, or who, being assembled, shall act in concert to do an unlawful act
with force and violence against the property of the Village, or the personal
property of another, or against the peace, or to the terror of the citizens or
other persons in the Village, or who shall make any movement or preparation
thereof, shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the
penalties hereof. (Ord. 1992-13, 7-2-1992)
6-3-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
Any person who shall make, aid, countenance, or assist in making any improper
disturbance, breach of the peace, or diversion tending to a breach of the
peace, and all persons who should collect in bodies or groups for unlawful
purposes or for any purpose to the annoyance or disturbance of citizens shall
be in violation and subject to the penalties of this chapter. (Ord. 1992-13, 7-
2-1992)
6-3-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct and is in violation of this chapter and
subject to the penalties herein when he or she knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and provokes a breach of the peace; or
   B.   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists; or
   C.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm in the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place; or
   D.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   E.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it; or
   F.   Urinates or defecates on any public street, alley, sidewalk or floor of
any public building or of any building where the public gathers or has access,
or in any other place, whether public or private, where such act could be
observed by any member of the public, except in such place that has been
designated as a restroom; or
   G.   Starts and/or challenges another in a fight or engages in a fight,
including an arranged mutual combat, in the Village of Heyworth. A fight means
any physical altercation between two (2) or more individuals. Self-defense as
allowed pursuant to Illinois law shall be an affirmative defense to the charge.
   H.   Wilfully disturbs and breaches the peace by using tumultuous, profane
or obscene language or sexually explicit language so as to alarm and disturb
another. (Ord. 2017-05, 2-2-2017)
6-3-4: ALCOHOL OFFENSES:
   A.   Open Container; Possession Or Consumption On Public Ways: It shall be
unlawful for any person to have any alcoholic beverage in an open container in
his/her possession or consume any alcoholic beverage on any street, highway,
sidewalk or any other public property or public way in any Nonresidential
Zoning District of the Village except when expressly permitted by ordinance or
resolution of the Village. Any person violating the provisions of this
subsection shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense 1 .
   B.   Purchase, Possession, Consumption By Minors:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic
liquor in his or her possession.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to consume alcoholic liquor.
      2.   Exception: The possession and dispensing or consumption by a minor
of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or
the consumption by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the
parents or parent of such minor in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by
this subsection.
      3.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first offense. Any person violating the
provisions of this subsection for a second time shall be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) 2 . (Ord. 2009-07, 2-2-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-4A-2C1 of this Code.
2 1. See also subsection 1-4A-2C2 of this Code.
6-3-5: LITTERING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, in person or by his agent,
employee or servant, to dump, deposit, place, cast, throw, sweep, or cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, placing, casting, throwing, sweeping, causing
or leaving of, litter in or upon any public or other person's private premises
or any waters other than property designated and set aside for such purposes,
or except for disposal of such litter or garbage that is placed in an
appropriate and authorized receptacle for garbage or recycle removal as
authorized by Village ordinances.
   B.   Litter includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   Picnic or eating utensils, such as paper plates, cups, napkins,
towels, plastic utensils, metal foil, cellophane, wax paper, paper bags, or any
food wrapping;
      2.   Liquid or beverage containers such as beer, soft drink, and juice
cans or bottles, and milk and juice cartons;
      3.   Tobacco and confection wrappers such as cigarette packages, candy,
ice cream, gum or any other type of dessert or confection wrapping or
container;
      4.   Food wastes such as fruit or vegetable peelings, pulp, rinds,
leftovers, or any other type of table wastes;
      5.   Newspapers, books, placards, handbills, pamphlets, circular, notices
or papers of any type; or
      6.   Any other type of rubbish, garbage, refuse matter, article or thing
or substance such as discarded clothing, boxes, manure or ashes. (Ord. 2011-24,
6-20-2011)
6-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense 1 . Any person convicted of violating
subsection
6-3-3G of this chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 2017-05, 2-2-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-4A-2B of this Code.
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Curfew
6-4-2: Tobacco Regulations
6-4-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   CURFEW HOURS: Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday;
Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on Sunday; and
Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person that is seventeen (17) years of age or younger.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   A minor violates this section if he or she remains in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor; or
      8.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act 1 .
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection C of this section is present. (Ord. 2008-35, 10-6-
2008)
   E.   Penalties: A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) 2 ;
except, that neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the
juvenile court act of 1987 3  nor that person's legal guardian shall be subject
to any fine. In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this subsection,
the court may order a parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a
violation of subsection B of this section to perform community service as
determined by the court; except, that the legal guardian of a person who has
been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court act of 1987 may not be
ordered to perform community service. The dates and times established for the
performance of community service by the parent, legal guardian, or other person
convicted of a violation of subsection B of this section shall not conflict
with the dates and times that the person is employed in his or her regular
occupation. (Ord. 2009-20, 2-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 2. See also subsection 1-4A-2B4 of this code.
3 3. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
6-4-2: TOBACCO REGULATIONS:
   A.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years to have in his or her possession any cigarette, cigar,
electronic cigarette, nicotine product or tobacco product in any form.
   B.   Sales To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation
or other business entity to sell, buy for, furnish, exchange, or give any
cigarettes, cigars, electronic cigarettes, nicotine products, or tobacco
products in any form to any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   C.   Exception:
      1.   It shall not be a violation of this chapter for any person under the
age of twenty-one (21) years to possess any tobacco product, electronic
cigarette or nicotine product if such possession is incidental and temporary
possession in the performance of retail clerk duties for businesses registered
with the village or the State of Illinois if such person is at least sixteen
(16) years old or older unless the sales clerk is in a family-owned business
that can prove that the sales clerk is in fact a son or daughter of the owner.
      2.   It shall not be a violation of this chapter for a person under
twenty-one (21) years of age to purchase a tobacco product, electronic
cigarette, or alternative nicotine product if the person under the age of 21
purchases or is given the tobacco product, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products or an employee of the retail seller pursuant to a
plan or action to investigate, patrol or otherwise conduct a “sting operation”
or enforcement action against a retail seller of tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products to determine if such products are
being sold or given to persons under 21 years of age if the “sting operation”
is approved by, conducted by, or conducted on behalf of the Heyworth Police
Department or other approved State or government department.
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm, corporation or other business entity that
violates this section is guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not to
exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, and not more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for any second or subsequent offense.
   E.   Distribution Of Fines: The village treasurer shall distribute all fines
collected under this section as follows:
      1.   One-half (1/2) to the village.
      2.   One-half (1/2) to the state of Illinois to be used for enforcing the
prevention of tobacco use by minors act 1 . (Ord. 2009-104, 9-8-2009; Ord.
2022-03, 3-17-2022)
 
Notes
1    720 ILCS 675/0.01 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
6-5-1: Noise Violations; Exemptions
6-5-2: Noise Permits
6-5-3: Penalty
6-5-1: NOISE VIOLATIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to use or operate a sound amplifying device so
that the device produces loud and raucous sounds at a distance greater than
fifty feet (50') from said device unless one has obtained a permit to do so
from the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2016-33, 9-1-2016)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to use or operate a sound amplifying device in
a motor vehicle which can be heard from seventy five feet (75') or more from
the outside of the vehicle when the vehicle is being operated or parked upon a
highway or public street or public property, unless said device is being
operated to request assistance or warn of a hazardous situation.
   B.   Exemptions: This chapter shall not apply when there is a publicly held
government function or event, to authorized emergency vehicles, or antitheft
devices. (Ord. 2008-34, 10-6-2008)
6-5-2: NOISE PERMITS:
   A.   General Requirements: Anyone desiring to use or operate a sound
amplification device beyond the limits stated in this chapter must submit an
application, to be approved by the Village**** Board of Trustees at its second
regularly scheduled meeting after receipt of the application for a sound
amplification permit. Each permit is only valid during the times specified in
the permit. Each permittee shall comply with all the terms of this chapter and
shall be responsible for ensuring that the sound amplifying device is used or
operated in accordance herewith. The application for permit shall state and
include the following: (Ord. 2016-33, 9-1-2016)
      1.   The person(s), business, corporation or entity requesting the
permit; and
      2.   The reason, purpose or event for which the permit is requested; and
      3.   The dates and times the sound amplifying device will be used or
operated; and
      4.   Whether live or recorded sound will be amplified; and
      5.   If live, the names and addresses of the performers shall be
provided.
   B.   Terms Of Permit:
      1.   The permit shall only be in effect during the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. local time, Sunday through
Thursday, and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight,
Friday and Saturday.
      2.   The sound amplification device shall not produce loud and raucous
sounds greater than one hundred feet (100') from the device.
      3.   The permit shall not allow loud and raucous sounds within fifty feet
(50') of a school or church during the hours they are in session or within
fifty feet (50') of a hospital or nursing home. (Ord. 2008-34, 10-6-2008)
6-5-3: PENALTY:
Any person(s), corporation(s), or other business entity or entities that
violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense 1 . (Ord. 2009-21, 2-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-4A-2B5 of this Code.
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Authority To Regulate Traffic
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Application To Bicycles And Animals
7-1-4: Effect Of Amendments
7-1-1: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE TRAFFIC:
The village board of trustees shall, in accordance with the provisions of the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 et seq., regulate
traffic within the corporate limits of the village, including, but not limited
to, regulating vehicular speed, the designation and posting of stop and yield
right of way intersections, the designation of one-way streets and alleys, the
designation of parking zones, no parking zones and parking zones for persons
with disabilities, and such other traffic regulations as permitted. (Ord. 2009-
42, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title, shall, for the
purpose hereof, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
section:
ALLEYS: Those public or private thoroughfares less than twenty feet (20') in
width and used primarily as service access to abutting properties.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES: Vehicles of the fire department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of any governmental
department or public service corporation as are designated or authorized by the
chief of police.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) or more tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle operated for the transportation of persons or
property in the furtherance of any commercial or industrial enterprise, for
hire or not for hire, but not including a commuter van, a vehicle used in a
ridesharing arrangement when being used for that purpose, or a recreational
vehicle not being used commercially.
CROSSWALK: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
roadway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk
with such extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
department of transportation as authorized under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-301.
DRAG RACING: The act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any
street or highway in this state in a situation in which one of the motor
vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing
driver, and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from
passing or overtaking him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or against time
on any street or highway in the village.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of the two (2) highways which join one another at or approximately at right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires but not
operated upon rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power and
motorized wheelchairs.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, including motor scooters and motor bicycles but excluding tractors.
PARK: When prohibited, means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation of movement.
STOP, STOPPING, OR STANDING: When prohibited, means any stopping or standing of
a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, and other
conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for the purpose
of travel.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title under
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101(d), except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and "snowmobiles" as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1-1 et seq. (Ord. 2009-42, 4-6-
2009)
7-1-3: APPLICATION TO BICYCLES AND ANIMALS:
Every person riding bicycles or other self-propelled vehicles or riding animals
upon a street or roadway in the village shall abide by all the applicable
traffic provisions in this title. (Ord. 2009-42, 4-6-2009)
7-1-4: EFFECT OF AMENDMENTS:
The volume of traffic and protection of the public health, safety and welfare
require that the adoption of any amendment to this title shall become effective
immediately, pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-4. Any such
amendment to this title shall be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the village
board of trustees then holding office. Any such amendment shall become
effective upon its passage and posting of the required traffic control devices
and signs as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-42, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND SIGNS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Installation Of Traffic Control Devices And Signs
7-2-2: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices And Signs
7-2-3: Unauthorized Signs
7-2-4: Signs On Rights Of Way Prohibited
7-2-1: INSTALLATION OF TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND SIGNS:
Traffic control devices and signs conforming to the Illinois department of
transportation sign manual and specifications shall be erected at all zones and
locations as determined by the village board of trustees. Any such erection
shall conform, as to the location, design, spacing and other relevant details,
to the Illinois department of transportation sign manual and specifications.
(Ord. 2009-43, 4-6-2009)
7-2-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES AND SIGNS:
All devices and signs, when installed upon any street by direction of the
village board of trustees, shall be deemed to be notice to all persons using
any such highway, street or alley within the corporate limits of the village of
the regulations applicable thereto, and the failure to control any vehicle by
any such person in accordance with such traffic control device or sign shall be
deemed to be a violation of this title. (Ord. 2009-43, 4-6-2009)
7-2-3: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS:
No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any highway,
street or alley right of way any sign, signal or device intended to imitate or
resemble, or which purports to be an authorized traffic control device or sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness of an
official traffic control device or any railroad sign or signal. It is hereby
declared that the location of any such unauthorized device or sign is a public
nuisance which endangers the public health, safety and welfare. Upon location
of any such authorized device or sign, the chief of police, or his designee, is
hereby authorized and empowered to immediately remove such unauthorized device
or sign. (Ord. 2009-43, 4-6-2009)
7-2-4: SIGNS ON RIGHTS OF WAY PROHIBITED:
No person shall place, maintain or display upon any public right of way
adjacent to any highway, street or alley located within the corporate limits of
the village any sign, advertisement, banner, flag or any other material of any
nature or kind intended to identify, direct, advise or advertise any person,
place or thing. It is hereby declared that the location of any such
unauthorized device or sign is a public nuisance which endangers the public
health, safety and welfare. Upon locating any such prohibited device or sign,
the chief of police, or his designee, is hereby authorized and empowered to
immediately remove such unauthorized device or sign. (Ord. 2009-43, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Stop When Traffic Obstructed
7-3-2: Speed Restrictions
7-3-3: Following Too Closely
7-3-4: Turning Movements
7-3-5: Drive On Right; Overtaking And Passing
7-3-6: Through Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
7-3-1: STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED:
No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed. (Ord. 2009-44, 4-6-2009)
7-3-2: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Maximum Speed Limit: The maximum speed limit on all streets and
highways within the corporate limits of the village which are not otherwise
subject to the jurisdiction of the Illinois department of transportation is
hereby established as thirty (30) miles per hour, unless otherwise provided
herein.
   B.   Parks And Alleys: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed
greater than ten (10) miles per hour in the public park 1 , or ten (10) miles
per hour in any alley.
   C.   Reasonable And Proper: The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower
than the foregoing prima facie limits shall not relieve the driver from the
duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when
approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person or vehicle, or upon entering the highway in compliance with
legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   D.   Signs Posted: Any highway or street, part thereof or zone on which the
maximum speed limit is other than thirty (30) miles per hour shall be
identified by the posting of appropriate signs giving notice of the maximum
speed limit on such street or highway, parts thereof or zone. Any such maximum
speed limit so adopted shall become effective upon the posting of such a sign
or signs.
   E.   School Zones: Nothing herein shall be determined to modify, alter or
amend the designation of any highway, street, part thereof or zone as a "school
zone", as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-605, which has been
heretofore determined as a "school zone" by the Illinois department of
transportation or the village board of trustees.
   F.   Penalty: Violation of the maximum speed limit established by this
section shall be punishable, upon conviction, by a fine in the amount as
determined by the court but, in any event, an amount not exceeding that
established in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-44, 4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-5-1B2 of this code.
7-3-3: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and safe, having regard for the speed of such vehicle and
the traffic upon and the condition of the street. (Ord. 2009-44, 4-6-2009)
7-3-4: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      2.   Left Turns:
         a.   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof.
         b.   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn
to the left shall yield the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to
constitute an immediate hazard.
   B.   Signals For Turning: No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct
course upon a street unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable
safety, and provided, that a signal of intention to turn right or left shall be
given during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by the
vehicle before turning. Signals required shall be either by signal lamp or hand
and arm signals, in accordance with the requirements of state law. (Ord. 2009-
44, 4-6-2009)
7-3-5: DRIVE ON RIGHT; OVERTAKING AND PASSING:
   A.   Drive On Right; Exceptions: Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a
vehicle shall be driven upon the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      1.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      2.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      3.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      4.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   B.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Direction: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions, except as otherwise provided, shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least
one-half (1/2) of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as
possible.
   C.   Overtaking And Passing Generally: The state motor vehicle code shall
govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction.
   D.   Passing On Left: No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the
center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and
passing to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of
any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken.
(Ord. 2009-44, 4-6-2009)
7-3-6: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets Designated: Those streets and parts of streets
designated by the village board of trustees are hereby declared to be through
streets for the purpose of this section.
   B.   Stop And Yield Intersections: Stop signs and yield signs and the
intersections therein affected, which intersections are designated by the
village board of trustees, are declared to be hazardous intersections.
   C.   Vehicles To Stop At Appropriate Signs: When stop signs are erected as
herein authorized at or near the entrance to any intersection, every driver of
a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop and yield the right of way to
approaching traffic as may be necessary before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, or in the event there is no crosswalk, shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. (Ord. 2009-44, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Manner Of Parking
7-4-2: No Parking Places; Moving Parked Vehicle
7-4-3: Parking Places For Persons With Disabilities
7-4-4: Weight Limits For Specific Parking Lots
7-4-5: Penalty
7-4-1: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in a
roadway other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the
direction of lawful traffic movement and with the right hand or left hand
wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the curb or edge of the
roadway except as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2008-33, 10-6-2008)
   B.   Angle Parking Prohibited: It is hereby determined that angled parking
will not be permitted on Village streets and rights-of-way within the Village
unless specifically authorized by the Village Board. (Ord. 2017-54, 7-6-2017)
   C.   Parking On Public Way For More Than Seventy Two Hours: It shall be
unlawful for an owner or operator of a vehicle to permit a vehicle to remain
parked on any public way for more than seventy two (72) consecutive hours
without moving the vehicle. The moving of a vehicle from one area of a block to
another area of the same block shall not constitute either abatement of the
parking time or commencement of a new parking time. (Ord. 2018-37, 7-19-2018)
   D.   Parking Of Trailers On Public Ways:
      1.   Unhitched Trailers On A Public Way:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for an owner or person in possession of a
trailer 1  or house trailer 2  as defined by the Illinois Compiled Statutes to
allow such trailer to be unhitched and parked or placed on any public way for
more than three (3) days in a fourteen (14) day period. For the purposes of
this subsection D, having a trailer unhitched for any amount of time on a
public way on any given day shall constitute one day.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for an owner or person in possession of a
trailer or house trailer as defined by the Illinois Compiled Statutes to allow
such trailer to be unhitched and parked or placed on any public way without
proper safety reflection or safety barriers surrounding such trailer. For the
purposes of this subsection D, property safety reflection or safety barriers
includes reflective tape on and completely surrounding the trailer, safety
cones at least eighteen inches (18") in height with appropriate reflection on
such cones, appropriate safety barrels, or such other similar measures.
      2.   Hitched Trailers On A Public Way: It shall be unlawful for an owner
or person in possession of a trailer or house trailer as defined by the
Illinois Compiled Statutes that is hitched to a vehicle to be parked or placed
on any public way without proper safety reflection or safety barriers on the
rear of such trailer. For the purposes of this subsection D, proper safety
reflection or safety barriers includes reflective tape, safety cones at least
eighteen inches (18") in height with appropriate reflection on such cones,
appropriate safety barrels, or such other similar measures. (Ord. 2018-35, 7-
19-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-209.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-128.
7-4-2: NO PARKING PLACES; MOVING PARKED VEHICLE:
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On a sidewalk.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         h.   On any railroad tracks. A violation of any part of this
subsection A1h shall result in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars
($500.00) or fifty (50) hours of community service.
         i.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
         j.   On any controlled access highway.
         k.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
         l.   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration. (Ord. 2008-33, 10-6-2008)
         m.   In or on a public alleyway. (Ord. 2018-36, 7-19-2018)
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (Ord.
2008-33, 10-6-2008)
7-4-3: PARKING PLACES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Definitions:
   OFFICIAL SIGN: Any sign erected on public or private property which complies
with regulations promulgated by the village for the erection and maintenance of
signs and with the requirements of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq., as may hereafter be amended, revised or recodified for designating the
reservation of parking spaces for persons with disabilities.
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES: A natural person who, as determined by a licensed
physician:
      1.   Cannot walk two hundred feet (200') without stopping to rest; or
      2.   Cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane,
crutch, another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive
device; or
      3.   Is restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his/her forced
(respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by spirometry, is
less than one liter (1 l), or the arterial oxygen tension is less than sixty
(60) mm/Hg on room air at rest; or
      4.   Uses portable oxygen; or
      5.   Has a cardiac condition to the extent that the person's functional
limitations are classified in severity as class III or class IV, according to
the standards set by the American Heart Association; or
      6.   Is severely limited in the person's ability to walk due to an
arthritic, neurological, or orthopedic condition.
   REGISTRATION OF PLATES OR DECALS, CARDS OR DEVICES ISSUED TO A PERSON WITH
DISABILITIES: 1. Registration plates or decals issued by the secretary of state
of Illinois pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-616, 5/11-1301.2 or
5/3-609, as may be amended after the effective date hereof.
      2.   Registration plates, special decals or other devices issued by
another jurisdiction designating the vehicle is operated by or for a person
with disabilities.
   B.   Scope: The parking privileges granted by this section are strictly
limited to the person to whom the special license plate, special decal or card
was issued and qualified drivers of motor vehicles who are acting under the
express direction of the person with disabilities to whom the special license
plate, special decal or card was issued and while the person with disabilities
is present. (Ord. 2008-33, 10-6-2008)
   C.   Parking Places Designated:
      1.   Public Parking Spaces: Public parking spaces for persons with
disabilities shall be designated by village ordinance. (Ord. 2008-33, 10-6-
2008; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Parking Lot Spaces: The village may designate certain on street and
certain off street parking spaces in municipal parking lots as being reserved
for use only by persons with disabilities by posting each such parking space
with an official sign which reserves such parking space pursuant to the laws,
rules and regulations which apply thereto. When these parking spaces are so
signed, it shall be illegal for any person to park a vehicle in the parking
space reserved in this manner for persons unless such vehicle has a license
plate or decal or card indicating use in compliance with this section and state
law. When not with a person with disabilities, it shall be illegal for any
person at any time to park any such licensed vehicle in a space designated as
being reserved for persons with disabilities or to use a decal or card of a
person with disabilities to park any vehicle at any time in such a reserved
space.
      3.   Private Parking Lots: Parking spaces in private parking lots may be
reserved by the owner of the parking lot for use only by persons with
disabilities. Such spaces shall be marked for reserved use by persons with
disabilities by posting each such parking space with an official sign which
reserves each parking space pursuant to the laws, rules and regulations of both
the state and the village which apply thereto. When these parking spaces are so
signed, it shall be illegal for any person to park a vehicle in a parking space
reserved in the manner for persons with disabilities unless such vehicle has
license plates indicating that the vehicle is registered to a person with
disabilities or unless a legal decal or card is being properly used indicating
that the vehicle is then being used by a person with disabilities who is
qualified to have such license plates or decal or card. It shall be illegal for
any person to park any such licensed vehicle in a space on a private parking
lot which is designated as being reserved for persons with disabilities or to
use a decal or card of a person with disabilities to park in such a reserved
space when not with the person with disabilities.
   D.   Application Of Parking Regulations To Persons With Disabilities: A
motor vehicle bearing license plates issued to a person with disabilities or a
special decal or card issued to a person with disabilities or a motor vehicle
registered in another jurisdiction upon which is displayed such license plates,
a special decal or card issued by the other jurisdiction designating that the
vehicle may be operated by or for a person with disabilities shall be exempt
from any statute or ordinance imposing time limitations on parking when the
person with disabilities is present. All drivers and owners of such vehicles
shall be subject to the laws that prohibit parking in zones in front of or near
fire hydrants, driveways, public building entrances and exits, bus stops,
loading areas and all other locations where parking is prohibited whether only
by laws which prohibit parking in specified types of locations at all times,
during certain hours or times, or for limited types of vehicles, or also by
signs which prohibit such parking. Each such vehicle is also prohibited from
parking when the motor vehicle constitutes a traffic hazard, and it shall be
illegal for any person not to promptly move such vehicle at the instruction or
request of a law enforcement officer to a legal location at the choice of the
driver or to a location designated by the officer.
   E.   Enforcement Of Provisions: Any person or local authority owning or
operating any public or private off street parking facility in the village may,
after notifying the village police department, remove or cause to be removed by
towing to a garage or other place of safety any vehicle parked within a space
reserved for use by persons with disabilities which does not display
registration plates or a special decal or card for persons with disabilities as
required by this section. The erection of an official sign on private property
specifically reserving any parking place for use by a person with disabilities
shall be deemed authorization for the village to enforce such parking
prohibition. The chief of police or superintendent of public works of the
village shall cause to be maintained an official inventory of private parking
places complying with this section.
   F.   Permitting Violations: No person shall directly or indirectly permit
any vehicle owned by such person to be used in any manner so as to violate any
of the provisions of this section.
   G.   Penalties 1 : Any person found guilty of violating any provision of
this section shall be subject to penalty for each violation. Such penalty shall
be in addition to any costs or charges connected with the removal, towing, and/
or storage of any motor vehicle authorized under this section. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed for each one-half (1/2) hour any person
permits a motor vehicle to remain parked in violation of this section. (Ord.
2008-33, 10-6-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-4A-2D3 of this code for fine.
7-4-4: WEIGHT LIMITS FOR SPECIFIC PARKING LOTS:
The parking lot located at the corner of Main Street and Willis Street shall
have a weight limit for all trucks and commercial vehicles as may hereinafter
be posted at said location. (Ord. 2010-20, 6-7-2010)
7-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person(s), corporation(s), or other business entity or entities that
violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each violation. (Ord. 2009-22, 2-17-2009)
CHAPTER 5
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Right Of Way
7-5-2: Crossing Roadways
7-5-3: Walking On Roadways
7-5-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or
stopping if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle, which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle. (Ord. 2009-45, 4-6-2009)
7-5-2: CROSSING ROADWAYS:
   A.   Use Of Crosswalks: No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a
marked crosswalk or an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
   B.   Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks:
      1.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      3.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
      4.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
      5.   Pedestrians with disabilities may cross a roadway at any point other
than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk where the
intersection is physically inaccessible to them, but they shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (Ord. 2009-45, 4-6-2009)
7-5-3: WALKING ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   B.   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   C.   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of a roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on the
left side of the roadway.
   D.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any pedestrian upon a
roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway. (Ord.
2009-45, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-6-1: Horn And Warning Device
7-6-2: Unnecessary Noise; Muffler
7-6-3: Compression Release Engine Brake
7-6-4: Gas And Smoke Emissions
7-6-5: Spilling Loads
7-6-6: Bicycle Equipment
7-6-1: HORN AND WARNING DEVICE:
   A.   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon a highway, shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or a whistle. The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a highway.
   B.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle, or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
subsection. Any "authorized emergency vehicle" or "organ transport vehicle", as
defined in State Statute, may be equipped with a siren, whistle, or bell
capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a distance of
not less than five hundred feet (500'), but such siren, whistle or bell shall
not be used except when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency
call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law,
in either of which events, the driver of such vehicle shall sound such siren,
whistle or bell when necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the
approach thereof 1 . (Ord. 2009-46, 4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-6-6B of this chapter.
7-6-2: UNNECESSARY NOISE; MUFFLER:
   A.   Unnecessary Noise Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle
which makes unusually loud or unnecessary noise.
   B.   Muffler, Prevention Of Noise: No motor vehicle shall be operated on any
street unless such vehicle is provided with a muffler in efficient actual
working condition. The use of a cutout is prohibited. (Ord. 2009-46, 4-6-2009)
7-6-3: COMPRESSION RELEASE ENGINE BRAKE:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, the term "compression
release engine brake" means any device installed or operating as a part of a
diesel engine equipped vehicle which reduces the speed of said vehicle by
altering the airflow within the engine causing the emission of compressed air
from the exhaust of said vehicle.
   B.   Prohibited Use: The use of compression release engine brakes to brake
or decelerate by any vehicle so equipped traveling within the corporate limits
of the Village is hereby prohibited.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: It shall be an affirmative defense to a violation
of this section that compression release engine brakes were or are used in
circumstances where such use was necessary to avoid personal injury or an
accident.
   D.   Signs Posted: The erection of signs conforming to the Illinois
Department of Transportation standards shall be permitted by the Illinois
Department of Transportation and placed in accordance with its standards and
policies. If permitted by the Department of Transportation, such signs shall be
placed at the following locations:
Route 136 west of U.S. 51 and east of 1400 East Road.
Route 136 east of the east corporate limit line, but west of 1600 East Road.
Vine Street (Old 51) north of the north corporate limits line, but south of 275
North Road.
   E.   Penalty: Upon conviction of a violation of this section, the court
shall impose upon the violator a fine not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2017-03,
2-2-2017)
7-6-4: GAS AND SMOKE EMISSIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as to
endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (Ord. 2009-46, 4-6-2009)
7-6-5: SPILLING LOADS:
No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops onto
any street or alley in the Village. (Ord. 2009-46, 4-6-2009)
7-6-6: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights And Reflectors: Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall
be equipped with at least one lighted lamp showing a white light or a light of
a yellow or amber tint visible at least two hundred feet (200') in the
direction toward which such bicycle is proceeding and with a reflector on the
rear of a type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50')
to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from
a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in lieu of the
reflector 1 .
   B.   Siren: A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren. This subsection does not apply to a bicycle that is a
police vehicle or Fire Department equipment 2 .
   C.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will
adequately control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle. (Ord. 2009-46,
4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-1507.
2 2. See also subsection 7-6-1B of this chapter.
CHAPTER 7
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
(GOLF CARTS, ALL-TERRAIN, RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES)
SECTION:
7-7-1: Short Title
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Requirements
7-7-4: Permit Requirements
7-7-5: Violations
7-7-6: Penalties
7-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the NON-HIGHWAY (GOLF CARTS, ALL-TERRAIN,
RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY) VEHICLES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-16-2010; amd.
Ord. 2023-45, 10-19-2023)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
             A motorized non-highway vehicle, as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
             1-101.8, which at the time of adoption of this Ordinance is defined as “[a]ny
ALL-TERRAIN  motorized off-highway device designed to travel primarily off-highway, 50 inches
VEHICLE:     or less in width, having a manufacturer’s dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less,
             traveling on 3 or more non-highway tires, designed with a seat or saddle for
             operator use, and handlebars or steering wheel for steering control, except
             equipment such as lawnmowers.”
             A motorized non-highway vehicle, as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
             1-123.9, which at the time of adoption of this Ordinance is defined as “[a]
GOLF CART:   vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of transporting one
             or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment while engaged in
             the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or maintaining the condition
             of the grounds on a public or private golf course.”
             A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used on a public highway,
NON-HIGHWAY  including all-terrain vehicles, golf cart, and recreational off-highway vehicles
VEHICLE:     as herein defined. It does not include off-highway motorcycles, which are
             specifically not permitted.
             A motorized non-highway vehicle, as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
             1-168.8, which at the time of adoption of this Ordinance is defined as “[a]ny
RECREATIONAL motorized off-highway device designed to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches
OFF-HIGHWAY  or less in width, having a manufacturer’s dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less for
VEHICLE:     gas-powered engines or 3,000 pounds or less for electric-powered engines,
             traveling on 4 or more non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and
             a steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
VILLAGE      Consist of any of the streets within the boundaries of the Village of Heyworth.
STREETS:     (Ord. 2010-32, 8-16-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-16, 4-21-2022; Ord. 2023-45, 10-19-
             2023)
 
7-7-3: REQUIREMENTS:
All persons wishing to operate a non-highway vehicle that is a golf cart, all-
terrain vehicle, or recreational off-highway vehicle on the Village streets
must comply with the following requirements, unless otherwise specifically
authorized by formal action of the Village Board:
   A.   Apply for and receive a permit issued by the Village.
   B.   Have and maintain proof of current liability insurance.
   C.   Have the vehicle inspected by the Chief of Police or his duly
authorized designee and receive a certification or permit from the Village.
   D.   Comply with the published “Rules Concerning Alternate Transportation
for the Village”, as periodically updated.
   E.   Have a decal or registration approved by the Village on the rear of the
vehicle.
   F.   Have a copy of the permit issued by the Village, valid registration,
and valid insurance in the non-highway vehicle at all times.
   G.   Have a current, valid Illinois driver’s license.
   H.   Be at least sixteen (16) years of age.
   I.   The non-highway vehicle must be equipped with a minimum of the
following properly operating and appropriate equipment:
      1.   Brakes and brake lights;
      2.   Turn signals on the front and rear of the vehicle;
      3.   A steering wheel apparatus;
      4.   Tires;
      5.   Rearview mirror;
      6.   Red reflectorized warning devices on the front and rear of the
vehicle;
      7.   Seat belts if the vehicle has manufactured rollover protection;
      8.   Approved “Slow Moving Vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle 1 ;
      9.   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front which illuminates when in operation;
      10.   Taillamp that emits red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation; and
      11.   Any additional requirements which may be required by the Illinois
Vehicle Code.
   J.   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and the Village of
Heyworth.
   K.   Must be operated only on Village streets that have posted speed limits
that are thirty-five (35) miles per hour or less, except where prohibited.
   L.   May not be operated on U.S. Highway 136 or any other Illinois
Department of Transportation highway, county highway, or road district highway
except to cross the roadways at any intersection and provided further that:
      1.   the crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street, road or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      2.   the non-highway vehicle is brought to a complete stop before
attempting a crossing;
      3.   the operator of the non-highway vehicle yields the right of way to
all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which constitutes a hazard; and
      4.   that when crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the highway with another public street, road, or highway.
   M.   Must not be operated in excess of posted speed limits and, with respect
to all-terrain vehicles, may not exceed twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
   N.   A person operating or is in actual physical control of a golf cart,
all-terrain vehicle, or recreational off-highway vehicle as described herein on
a roadway while under the influence is subject to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-500 through 5/11-502 et al.
   O.   Non-highway vehicles shall not be operated on sidewalks or in the
Village parks other than parking areas.
   P.   All non-highway vehicles shall be limited to the number of passengers
permitted per the manufacturer’s requirements.
   Q.   Must comply with all other standards and requirements set forth by the
manufacturer. (Ord. 2013-42, 10-3-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-16, 4-21-2022; Ord.
2023-45, 10-19-2023; Ord. 2023-49, 11-2-2023)
 
Notes
1 625 ICS 5/12-709.
7-7-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Term; Renewals; Insurance: No person shall operate a
qualified non-highway vehicle without first obtaining a permit from Chief of
Police of the Village of Heyworth as provided herein. Permits may be granted
for a special event or in monthly intervals up to and including a total of one
year. One-year permits are required to be annually renewed. Insurance coverage
shall be submitted and verified by the Police Department when obtaining or
renewing a permit.
   B.   Application For Permit: Every application for a permit shall be made on
a form supplied by the village and shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Name and liability insurance carrier;
      3.   The serial number, make, model and description of the non-highway
vehicle;
      4.   Signed waiver of liability by the applicant releasing the village of
Heyworth and agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless from any and
all future claims resulting from operation of their non-highway vehicle on the
village of Heyworth streets;
      5.   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      6.   An acknowledgment that the non-highway vehicle meets all State and
local rules, regulations, and laws.
      7.   Such other information as the village may require.
   C.   Restrictions On Issuance: No permit shall be granted unless the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The non-highway vehicle must be inspected by the Village of Heyworth
Chief of Police or his duly authorized designee to ensure that the vehicle is
safe to operate on village streets and is in compliance with this chapter and
with the state of Illinois motor vehicle code.
      2.   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a licensed physician certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate
a qualified non-highway vehicle on village streets.
      3.   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state of
Illinois.
   D.   Fees: The cost of the permit is as follows:
      1.   A fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each month a permit is
desired with a total cost not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) (i.e., a
1-month temporary permit is $25.00, a 3 month temporary permit is $75.00).
      2.   An annual permit is one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   A special event temporary permit is twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   The permit fee shall be waived for all governmental or recognized
not for profit entity.
      2.   The village may issue a temporary special event permit for use of
non-highway vehicles that may not be in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and that are valid and issued only during that event.
   F.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: The village may suspend or revoke a
permit granted hereunder upon finding that the holder thereof has violated any
provision of this chapter or there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely
operate a qualified non-highway vehicle on the designated roadways.
   G.   Renewals; Failure to timely renew:
      1.   The fees for renewals shall be as set forth in Section (D) of this
chapter.
      2.   In the event a person does not renew by the expiration date, any
renewal will be retroactive to the date of the expiration date unless the
applicant can appropriately demonstrate that the non-highway vehicle had not
been utilized after the expiration date. (Ord. 2013-01, 1-17-2013; amd. Ord.
2022-16, 4-21-2022; Ord. 2023-45, 10-19-2023; Ord. 2023-49, 11-2-2023)
7-7-5: VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any non-highway vehicle in
the following ways:
   A.   In violation of any requirement of this chapter.
   B.   In a careless or heedless manner so as to be grossly indifferent to the
person or property of other persons, or at a rate of speed greater than will
permit him in the exercise of reasonable care to bring the non-highway vehicle
to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
   C.   In such a manner as to endanger the life, limb or property of any
person.
   D.   Within any nature preserve as defined in section 3.11 of the Illinois
natural areas preservation act 1 .
   E.   On the tracks or rights-of-way of an operating railroad.
   F.   In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which damages or destroys
growing stock or creates a substantial risk thereto.
   G.   On private property, without the written or verbal consent of the owner
or lessee thereof. Any person operating a non-highway vehicle upon lands of
another shall stop and identify himself upon the request of the landowner or
his duly authorized representative, and if requested to do so by the landowner,
shall promptly remove the non-highway vehicle from the premises.
   Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, an owner, lessee, or occupant
of premises owes no duty of care to keep the premises safe for entry or use by
others of a non-highway vehicle, or to give warning of any condition, use,
structure or activity on such premises. This subsection does not apply where
permission to drive or operate a non-highway vehicle is given for a valuable
consideration other than to this state, any political subdivision or
municipality of this state, or any landowner who is paid with funds from the
non-highway vehicle trails fund. In the case of land leased to the state or a
subdivision of the state, any consideration received is not valuable
consideration within the meaning of this subsection.
   Nothing in this subsection limits in any way liability which otherwise
exists for willful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous
condition, use, structure, or activity.
   H.   Other prohibitions are as follows:
      1.   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride
any non-highway vehicle with any firearm in his or her possession unless he or
she is in compliance with section 2.33 of the wildlife code 2
      2.   No person shall operate any utility terrain vehicle or off highway
motorcycle emitting pollutants in violation of standards established pursuant
to the environmental protection act 4 .
      3.   No person shall deposit from a non-highway vehicle on the snow, ice
or ground surface, any trash, glass, garbage, insoluble material, or other
offensive matter. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-16-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-45, 10-19-2023)
 
Notes
1 525 ILCS 30/311.
2 520 ILCS 5.2.33..
3 520 ILCS 5/2.33.
4 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
7-7-6: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Any
second or subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the permit for a
period of not less than three (3) nor more than five (5) years. To the extent
that any violation of this chapter also constitutes a violation of a criminal
statute of the state of Illinois, the violator shall also be subject to
criminal prosecution. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-16-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-16, 4-21-2022)
CHAPTER 8
TRUCK ROUTES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Scope
7-8-2: State Statutes Adopted
7-8-3: Truck Routes Established; Exceptions
7-8-4: Permit Requirements
7-8-5: Penalties
7-8-1: SCOPE:
This chapter pertains to vehicles or combinations of vehicles with a gross
weight that is greater than twelve thousand (12,000) pounds, operated or
proposed to be operated on the streets of the Village. (Ord. 2009-87, 7-6-2009)
7-8-2: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED:
In addition to the provisions and requirements stated in this chapter, the
Village hereby adopts by the reference and incorporates herein the provisions
of chapter 15 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1  as if directly set forth herein.
(Ord. 2009-87, 7-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-101 et seq.
7-8-3: TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Truck Routes Established: It is unlawful and a violation of this
chapter for any person to operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles with a
gross weight greater than twelve thousand (12,000) pounds over any street or
public way in the Village with the exception of confining their movement on the
designated marked truck routes as follows:
      1.   Class II truck route:
         Cole Street from School Street to Joselyn Street.
         Joselyn Street from Main Street to the north end of the Village
corporate limits.
         Kickapoo Road from North Street to north of Steve Street where the
road ends.
         Newton Street from Buchanan Street to Joselyn Street.
         School Street from Main Street to Cole Street.
         Willis Street north from Cole Street to North Street.
      2.   Class III truck route:
         Buchanan Street from Cleveland Street (U.S. Route 136) to the north
end of the Village corporate limits.
         Clark Street from Vine Street (Old U.S. Route 51) to Buchanan Street.
         Cleveland Street (if and as established by the Illinois Department of
Transportation).
         Delane Drive from Cleveland Street (U.S. Route 136) to Thomas Drive.
         Joselyn Street from Cleveland Street (U.S. Route 136) to Main Street.
         Main Street from Vine Street (Old U.S. Route 51) to School Street.
         Vine Street (Old U.S. Route 51) if and as established by the Illinois
Department of Transportation.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Local Deliveries: Heavy vehicles as above described may be permitted
off the truck routes within the Village only for the purpose of making local
delivery, and when such local delivery is made, the vehicle leaving the route
for the purpose of making the delivery shall take the shortest route to the
point of local delivery and shall return to the designated truck route after
completing local delivery by the shortest possible route.
      2.   Permits: Any person may operate a vehicle or combination of vehicles
that would otherwise be in violation of the provisions of this chapter if a
permit is issued by the Village pursuant to section
7-8-4 of this chapter.
      3.   School Buses: Any school bus owned and operated by any recognized
public or private school is exempted from the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Government Vehicles Or Equipment: Any vehicle or combination of
vehicle equipment owned and operated by any governmental body, including, but
not limited to, fire apparatus and equipment, snow and ice removal operations,
or rescue vehicles, is exempted from the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Garbage And Recycling Vehicles: Any vehicle or combination of
vehicle equipment owned and operated by garbage and/or recycling companies for
the purpose of garbage and/or recyclables removal and pick up contracted by the
Village for Village services is hereby exempted from the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 2013-35, 9-19-2013)
7-8-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: The Village may authorize, in its discretion, upon
receipt of application and good cause being shown therefor, issue a special
permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or combination of
vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified
by statute or ordinance or otherwise not in conformity with State Statute or
ordinance upon any highway under the jurisdiction of the party granting such
permit and for the maintenance of which the party is responsible. (Ord. 2009-
87, 7-6-2009)
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for any such permit shall be on
a form approved by the Village**** and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Whether such permit is requested for a single trip or for limited
continuous operation.
      2.   If the applicant is an authorized carrier under the Illinois
Commercial Transportation Law 1 , and if so, provide his certificate,
registration or permit number issued by the Illinois Commerce Commission.
      3.   Specific description and identification of the vehicle or vehicles
and load to be operated or moved except for vehicles or vehicle combinations
registered by the Department of Transportation provided in section 15-319 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code 2 .
      4.   The routing requested including the points of origin and
destination, and may identify and include a request for routing to the nearest
certified scale in accordance with the Department of Transportation rules and
regulations.
      5.   If the vehicles or loads are being transported for hire. (Ord. 2009-
87, 7-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Compliance With State Regulations Required: No permits for the movement
of a vehicle or load for hire shall be issued to any applicant who is required
under the Illinois Commercial Transportation Law 3  to have a certificate,
registration or permit and does not have such certificate, registration or
permit. (Ord. 2009-87, 7-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/18c-1101 et seq.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/15-319.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/18c-1101 et seq.
7-8-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined in a sum not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. If a highway or
structure is damaged as a result of any person driving any vehicle, object or
contrivance upon any highway or highway structure in violation of this chapter,
the person, firm or corporation in violation shall be liable for all damage
which the highway or structure may sustain as a result of any illegal
operation, driving or moving of such vehicle, object or contrivance, or as a
result of operating, driving, or moving any vehicle, object, or contrivance
exceeding the maximum dimensions or weighing in excess of the maximum weight
specified. The measure of liability shall be the cost of repairing a facility
partially damaged or the depreciated replacement cost of a facility damaged
beyond repair, together with all other expenses incurred by the Village in
providing a temporary detour, including a temporary structure, to serve the
needs of traffic during the period of repair or replacement of the damaged
highway or highway structure 1 .
   B.   If the driver is not the owner of a vehicle, object or contrivance in
violation of this chapter and the driver has the express or implied permission
from such an owner, the owner is jointly and severally liable for any and all
penalties stated herein. (Ord. 2009-87, 7-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-318.
CHAPTER 9
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
7-9-1: State Statutes Adopted
7-9-2: Provisions Are Additional
7-9-3: Registration Requirements
7-9-4: Identification Display
7-9-5: Operation Of Snowmobiles
7-9-6: Violation; Penalty
7-9-1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED:
All provisions of the Illinois snowmobile registration and safety act,
otherwise known as 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1-1 et seq., are hereby
adopted by reference, the same as if all such provisions were set out in full
in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-109, 9-8-2009)
7-9-2: PROVISIONS ARE ADDITIONAL:
All provisions of this chapter are hereby declared supplemental to, but not
inconsistent with, the provisions of the state statutes set forth in section
7-9-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-109, 9-8-2009)
7-9-3: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration Required: It is unlawful for any person to drive or
operate any snowmobile on a public street or right of way in the village unless
the same is registered and an identification number is displayed as provided
for in this chapter.
   B.   Equipment: All snowmobiles operating within the village shall be
inspected by a person designated by the village and shall be equipped, at a
minimum, with:
      1.   At least one white headlamp having a minimum visibility and
sufficient intensity to be viewed from five hundred feet (500'). If a
snowmobile is equipped with a single beam lamp, such lamp shall be so aimed
that when the vehicle is loaded none of the high intensity portion of the
light, at a distance of twenty five feet (25') in front of the vehicle,
projects higher than the level of the center of the lamp from which it
originates;
      2.   At least one red taillamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear during hours of darkness;
      3.   A brake system in good mechanical condition;
      4.   Reflective material of a minimum area of sixteen (16) square inches
mounted on each side of the cowling. Identifying numbers may be included in
computing the required sixteen (16) square inch area; and
      5.   Adequate sound suppression equipment.
   C.   Application For Registration; Fee: Any owner of a snowmobile desiring
to operate or allow the machine to be operated within the village shall make
application for a registration number with the village clerk at the village
hall or at such other place or places as may be designated by the village board
of trustees. The application shall be made on forms provided by the village
clerk and shall be accompanied by a fee of ten dollars ($10.00). Before a
registration number is issued and registration accepted, the owner must supply
satisfactory proof of identification with the state of Illinois, including the
Illinois registration number. Upon receipt of the application and this proof,
the village clerk or the clerk's designated representative shall record the
same and issue to the applicant an identification number.
   D.   Transferability Of Registration: The registration number so assigned is
to be used only with the vehicle identified in the application. Such owner may,
upon application with the village clerk, have the same number assigned to a
different vehicle. (Ord. 2011-05, 2-7-2011)
7-9-4: IDENTIFICATION DISPLAY:
The owner is required at the owner's expense to supply numbers of a reflector
type not less than four inches (4") in height and affix the same on the front
left side of the snowmobile so that the same may be readily observed. These
numbers are in addition to the Illinois snowmobile registration number. (Ord.
2009-109, 9-8-2009)
7-9-5: OPERATION OF SNOWMOBILES:
   A.   Right Five Feet Of Roadway: Pursuant to the authority contained in
subsection 5-2B of the Illinois snowmobile registration and safety act 1 ,
snowmobiles may be operated on the public highways in the village on the right
five feet (5') of the roadway in use. "Roadway" is defined as that portion of
the highway improved and ordinarily used for vehicular travel. During the time
of snowfall, the definition of "roadway" is limited to that portion of the
public highway which has been cleared by snowplows or other heavy equipment to
permit the travel of ordinary passenger vehicles.
   B.   Warning Flag: It shall be unlawful to operate any snowmobile in the
village unless a warning flag is attached on a pole extending not less than six
feet (6') in elevation from the ground. Each flag shall be of an orange
reflecting type material not less than one square foot in area. (Ord. 2009-109,
9-8-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 40/5-2B.
7-9-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, including any
provisions of the state law that is adopted herein by reference, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord.
2009-109, 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 10
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-10-1: Enforcement Official; Authority To Direct Traffic
7-10-2: Obedience To Police And Fire Officials
7-10-3: Arrests; Bail
7-10-4: Violation; Penalty
7-10-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL; AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
   A.   Chief Of Police: It shall be the duty of the chief of police or other
designated police official to enforce all street traffic laws of the village
and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the village.
   B.   Authority To Direct Traffic: The chief of police or police officer on
duty is hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in
conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers may
direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the
traffic laws. (Ord. 2009-47, 4-6-2009)
7-10-2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE OFFICIALS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official. (Ord. 2009-47, 4-6-
2009)
7-10-3: ARRESTS; BAIL:
Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this title shall be
released upon proper bail being furnished as required by law. (Ord. 2009-47, 4-
6-2009)
7-10-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor Violation: It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required in this title.
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any other provision
of this title shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such offense 1 . (Ord. 2009-47,
4-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-4A-2D of this code.
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALK REPAIR AND CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose And Intent
8-1-2: Supervision
8-1-3: Review Process
8-1-4: Specifications
8-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The provisions of this chapter are intended to apply to situations where time
and/or prolonged use have contributed to deterioration of the sidewalks in
established developments of any zoning classification or, if no sidewalks are
present, where the construction of sidewalks would be of mutual benefit to the
community as a whole. These provisions shall not apply to situations where
subdivision development or building improvements include new sidewalk
construction or removal as a component of the overall construction. See title
10, chapter 3 of this code for provisions pertaining to the latter situation.
(Ord. 2009-11, 2-2-2009)
8-1-2: SUPERVISION:
All maintenance, repair and construction of sidewalks shall be under the
supervision of the village superintendent of public works. (Ord. 2009-11, 2-2-
2009)
8-1-3: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Administration: All petitions for sidewalk repair or construction shall
be made to the streets and public utilities committee, submitted on a form
approved by the village,**** and shall be subject to the approval of the board
of trustees, and the determination shall be made by the board with regard to
the availability of funds and the need for the proposed improvement.
   B.   Deposit And Costs:
      1.   After petition for sidewalk repair or construction, the streets and
public utilities committee shall consider the project and deliver to the
property owner or owners so requesting the work an estimate of the cost of the
same. The property owners, within the time specified, shall deposit, in cash,
an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the estimate of the project. The
board of trustees shall then proceed to let contracts for the work. The total
cost of such repair or construction shall be borne equally between property
owner and the village.
      2.   Alternatively, the streets and public utilities committee may
estimate the cost of the work under the assumption that the labor shall be
provided by village forces. (Ord. 2009-11, 2-2-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Refund Of Deposit: In the event a sidewalk project is not approved by
the board of trustees after deposit of funds by a property owner, the funds so
deposited shall be refunded without interest. After payment of all costs of
construction, any pro rata amount of the deposit over and above fifty percent
(50%) of the actual cost will be refunded pro rata to the property owners
concerned with the project. (Ord. 2009-11, 2-2-2009)
   D.   Processing Request: A determination shall be made by the village board
of trustees no later than the first regularly scheduled board meeting following
fourteen (14) days after petition to the streets and public utilities
committee. (Ord. 2009-11, 2-2-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
8-1-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
All specifications for repair or construction of sidewalks shall be in
accordance with section
12-5-6 of this code. (Ord. 2009-11, 2-2-2009)
CHAPTER 2
DRIVEWAY CULVERTS; UNDERDRAIN SYSTEMS; CURB CUTS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Driveway Culverts
8-2-2: Underdrain Systems
8-2-3: Permit Requirements
8-2-4: Variances
8-2-5: Obstructing Drainage Ditches (Rep. by Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-2-6: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: DRIVEWAY CULVERTS:
   A.   Culverts Required: All driveways, except those leading onto streets
improved with curb and gutter, shall have culverts installed in accordance with
the following standards unless otherwise approved by the village board of
trustees.
   B.   Construction Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   Pipe material shall conform to Illinois department of transportation
standard specifications for road and bridge construction, latest edition, for
pipe culverts type 1A.
      2.   The culvert shall be sized adequately to handle the drainage area to
be served and shall be at least equal in diameter to the nearest crossroad
culvert serving this drainage area. In no case, however, shall a pipe culvert
of less than fifteen inches (15") in diameter be installed.
      3.   The culvert shall be placed in line with the existing road ditch
horizontally and shall be placed at a vertical depth to provide the necessary
drainage of the existing waterway. Minimum depth of cover over the top of the
culvert pipe to the surface of the driveway shall be six inches (6"). If the
existing ditch is not of sufficient depth to provide these minimum standards,
the builder shall regrade the existing ditch as directed by the village
superintendent of public works to provide the necessary drainageway.
      4.   Culvert pipe shall be of sufficient length to extend from toe of
slope to toe of slope of the driveway cross section. In no case shall these
slopes be steeper than three and one-half feet (31/2') horizontal per each
vertical foot as measured from the flow line or invert of the culvert to the
edge of the driveway. A channel bottom width of not less than one foot (1')
shall be provided.
      5.   The driveway surface shall be graded so that it meets the edge of
the existing street surface and drains towards the culvert at a minimum slope
of 0.50 percent. The low point of the driveway shall not be closer to the
street than the existing ditch, but in no case shall it be closer than four
feet (4'). (Ord., 2-2-2009)
      6.   All driveways shall cross the existing or proposed sidewalk at
sidewalk grade causing neither a depression nor a hump in the sidewalk without
the express permission of the streets and public utilities committee. (Ord., 2-
2-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      7.   All work and materials used on the village right of way shall be in
accordance with the standard specifications for road and bridge construction,
latest edition.
   C.   Restoration Of Disturbed Area: All areas disturbed in the course of
this construction shall be repaired to their original condition, and all
waterways shall be hand raked and seeded as directed by the village
superintendent of public works.
   D.   Obstructions Prohibited: No fences, posts, retaining walls, shrubs or
curbs shall be constructed along driveways between the right of way line or
property line and the street pavement, except a curb which does not project
more than six inches (6") above the adjacent ground line may be constructed
between the existing road ditch and the property line when approved by the
village board of trustees.
   E.   Reflectors: Reflectors may be placed at the top of slope in line with
the culvert. Reflectors shall not exceed four inches (4") in any dimension and
shall not project more than twenty four inches (24") above the low point of the
driveway surface. (Ord., 2-2-2009)
8-2-2: UNDERDRAIN SYSTEMS:
Where authorized by the streets and public utilities committee, an underdrain
system may be installed in lieu of the roadside ditch, and shall be constructed
in accordance with the following standards unless otherwise approved by the
village board of trustees: (Ord., 2-2-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   A.   Pipe material shall conform to Illinois department of transportation
standard specifications for road and bridge construction, latest edition, for
pipe culverts type 1A. The underdrain shall be sized adequately to handle the
drainage area to be served and shall be at least equal in diameter to the
nearest crossroad culvert serving this drainage area. In no case, however,
shall an underdrain of less than fifteen inches (15") in diameter be installed.
The minimum pipe slope shall be 0.40 percent. (Ord., 2-2-2009)
   B.   Each lot shall have, at minimum, an inlet structure on the downstream
end of the underdrain. Additional inlet structures shall be required, at the
direction of the streets and public utilities committee, when necessary to
prevent the obstruction of other drainageways or to prevent ponding. Each inlet
structure shall be constructed with an inside dimension of two feet by two feet
(2' x 2') square. The inlet structure shall be precast with a frame and grate
suitable for use in streets or trafficways (similar to Neenah Foundries no.
R3405 or approved equal). The surface of the grate shall be laid flush with the
flow line of the new surface drainage swale so as to deposit all surface waters
from the adjacent road and lot area into the underdrain system. (Ord., 2-2-
2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   The culvert pipe on the upstream end of the underdrain shall be
connected to any existing inlet structure. If no inlet structure exists on the
upstream end, the ground at the upstream end shall be sloped from the new
surface drainage swale to the existing surface drainage swale with a slope not
steeper than three feet (3') horizontal per each vertical foot. The ground on
the downstream side of a downstream inlet structure, if no adjoining underdrain
exists, shall be similarly sloped. (Ord., 2-2-2009)
   D.   All areas disturbed in the course of this construction shall be
repaired to their original condition, and all waterways shall be hand raked and
seeded as directed by the streets and public utilities committee. (Ord., 2-2-
2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   All work and materials used on the village right of way shall be in
accordance with the standard specifications for road and bridge construction,
latest edition. (Ord., 2-2-2009)
8-2-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Driveway/Culvert Permit: No person shall begin construction or repair
of driveway culverts or underdrain systems without first submitting a completed
application for a driveway or culvert permit on a form approved by the village
and without having secured said permit from and paying the applicable fee to
the village hall. The village, however, shall not issue any permit under this
chapter for any private accessway or for the breaking or removing of any curb
where the proposed opening would create any undue hazard to pedestrians or
create a traffic hazard.
   B.   Excavation/Utility/Curb Cut Permit: No person shall break or cut away
any portion of any curb and gutter, street pavement, or sidewalk pavement now
or hereafter laid or established on any street, alley or public way without
first submitting a completed application for an excavation/utility/curb cut
permit on a form approved by the village and without having secured an
excavation/utility/curb cut permit from the village hall. (See title 10,
chapter 4 of this code.)
   C.   Notice Of Construction; Plans And Drawings: Any person intending to
begin such construction or removal shall satisfy any requirements for notice of
construction and requirements for submission of plans or drawings so enumerated
on the permit instructions. Also, before a permit will be issued for a curb cut
onto a state right of way, a copy of an approved permit from the state of
Illinois department of transportation shall be submitted to the streets and
public utilities committee. (Ord. 2009-107, 9-8-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   D.   Inspections:
      1.   Before Permit Issuance: Before issuance of the permit, the village
superintendent of public works may inspect the site of the proposed
construction and may inform the applicant in writing of any changes to the
plans or drawings necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter. Also, any
person installing an accessway through a curb break shall notify the
superintendent of public works not less than forty eight (48) hours prior to
the commencement of construction.
      2.   After Construction: After completion of the construction, the
applicant shall so notify the village superintendent of public works who shall
inspect the completed construction to ensure that it has been built in
compliance with this chapter and with any requirements specified upon the
issuance of the permit.
   E.   Fees: The driveway culvert permit fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. 2009-107, 9-8-2009)
8-2-4: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority To Grant Variance; Standards:
      1.   The Village Board of Trustees may approve variances to the standards
contained in this chapter; provided, that no variance shall be approved unless
the Village Board shall find that all of the following criteria have been met:
         a.   Because of special conditions or circumstances, a substantial
hardship to the owner of the property would result, as distinguished from
purely a financial hardship or a mere inconvenience, from strict compliance
with the standards contained in this chapter.
         b.   The conditions or circumstances upon which the request for a
variance is based are unique to the property affected and are not applicable
generally to other property.
         c.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public safety, health or welfare, or injurious to other property.
      2.   In approving variances, the Village Board may require such other
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards contained in this chapter. (Ord., 2-2-2009)
   B.   Petition For Variance: A petition for any variance shall be submitted
in writing, on a form approved by the Village, to the Streets and Public
Utilities Committee, signed by the person intending to undertake any activity
governed by this chapter. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the
application and all facts relied upon by the petitioner. The Streets and Public
Utilities Committee shall promptly forward the petition and any available plans
or drawings to the Village Board and notify the petitioner of the date set for
consideration of the petition. (Ord., 2-2-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Decision Of Village Board: The Village Board shall, within a reasonable
time after receiving the petition, consider the matter at a general or special
meeting, at which time, the petitioner and all interested parties shall have
the right to appear and present evidence or argument. The Village Board shall
grant or deny the petition within thirty five (35) days of the meeting and
shall send written notice of its decision to the petitioner. The decision of
the Village Board is final. (Ord., 2-2-2009)
8-2-5: OBSTRUCTING DRAINAGE DITCHES:
(Rep. by Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-2-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be served by the designated supervisor of the
Public Works Department or Code Compliance Officer with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, make the necessary corrections and permanently cease all
violations stated. (Ord. 2015-24, 6-18-2015)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided in subsection A of this section shall be fined in an amount not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day in which a violation shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord., 2-2-2009)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVEWAY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose And Intent
8-3-2: Rules And Regulations
8-3-3: Permit Required; Restrictions On Issuance
8-3-4: Off Street Parking Requirements
8-3-5: Violation; Penalties
8-3-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The provisions of this chapter are intended to establish rules and regulations
for driveways located within the village in order to promote the general
welfare and public interest by protecting the village streets, rights of way
and other public infrastructures and to promote proper drainage in the village.
These provisions generally set forth rules and regulations for driveway
construction, reconstruction, maintenance, repair, quality and other items
related to driveways located in the village. (Ord. 2009-105, 9-8-2009)
8-3-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Property Owner Requirements: The following requirements are minimum
requirements for all driveways located within the village rights of way, and
said driveways shall be required to be in compliance at the expense of the
property owner. All such driveways shall:
      1.   Be surfaced with an all weather, dust free material; and
      2.   Be maintained in a safe and reasonable condition.
   B.   Village Requirements: The following requirements are the responsibility
of the village for all applicable driveways located within the village rights
of way:
      1.   Any driveway that is destroyed, removed, altered or damaged as a
result of work, construction or other conduct performed by the village shall be
repaired or replaced to the same or similar condition the driveway was in prior
to said occurrence.
      2.   The village shall not be responsible for any repairs, replacement or
construction of any driveway located within the village right of way unless
otherwise specified herein.
   C.   Existing Driveways: Any driveway existing on the effective date hereof
may not be enlarged, extended, or replaced except in strict compliance with
this chapter. (Ord. 2009-105, 9-8-2009)
8-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE:
No person shall begin construction or repair of driveway culverts or underdrain
systems, nor shall any person begin construction or repair of any driveway,
without first having secured a driveway and/or culvert permit from the village
hall. The permit application is on a form approved by the village. The village,
however, shall not issue any permit under this chapter for any private
accessway or for the breaking or removing of any curb where the proposed
opening would create any undue hazard to pedestrians or create a traffic
hazard. (Ord. 2009-105, 9-8-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
8-3-4: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Any property that has an off street parking facility, lot or space shall be
subject to the requirements set forth in title 11, chapter 11 of this code.
(Ord. 2009-105, 9-8-2009)
8-3-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person or business entity that does not comply with the requirements of
this chapter shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to a minimum
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense. (Ord. 2009-105, 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 4
RIGHTS OF WAY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose And Intent
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Rules And Regulations
8-4-4: Annual Registration Required For Utilities
8-4-5: Permit Required
8-4-6: Permit Applications
8-4-7: Action On Permit Applications
8-4-8: Effect Of Permit
8-4-9: Revised Permit Drawings For Utilities
8-4-10: Insurance Required For Utilities
8-4-11: Indemnification By Utilities
8-4-12: Security Fund Required For Utilities
8-4-13: Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit
8-4-14: No Permit Required
8-4-15: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status For Utilities
8-4-16: General Construction Standards
8-4-17: Traffic Control
8-4-18: Location Of Utility Facilities
8-4-19: Construction Methods And Materials For Utilities
8-4-20: Vegetation Control
8-4-21: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
8-4-22: Cleanup And Restoration By Utilities
8-4-23: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance By Utilities
8-4-24: Existing Structures And Uses
8-4-25: Variances
8-4-26: Appeals
8-4-27: Violations; Penalties
8-4-28: Enforcement
8-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of village
of Heyworth public rights of way in the interest of public safety, convenience
and the operation and protection of public works infrastructure.
It is also the purpose of this chapter to establish policies and procedures for
construction facilities on rights of way within the village's jurisdiction,
which will provide public benefit consistent with the preservation of the
integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village rights of way and
the village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by persons and utilities, by establishing uniform
standards to address issues presented by persons and utility facilities,
including, without limitation, to:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the treelined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all other
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, but only to the extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, a person or utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter
to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or
regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society For Testing And Materials.
ADMINISTRATING OFFICIAL: The administrating official as used in this chapter
refers to the zoning administrator, or in the event that office is vacant, the
superintendent of public works.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear runout area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside Design
Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of Heyworth.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The village engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
village engineer or his designee to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to provisions
of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Includes, but is not limited to, any electric utility, gas
utility, telecommunications utility, cable company, water utility, or sewer
utility.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT(S) OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway, dedicated or
commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar purposes,
including utility easements, in which the village has the right and authority
to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other than those of
the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include any real or
personal village property that is not specifically described herein and shall
not include village buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements,
regardless of whether they are situated in the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
8-4-12 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS: The village superintendent of public works or
his or her designee.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two- way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this chapter.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Heyworth.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-
21-2011)
8-4-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Provisions Of This Chapter: No person shall construct, install,
maintain or operate facilities or other objects, including, but not limited to,
trees, utility lines, fences, or structures within the village rights of way
except as provided for herein and in accordance with the other ordinances and
resolutions of the village.
   B.   Authorization: Due in part to drainage problems, no person shall fill,
obstruct, alter, minimize or otherwise modify any ditch or culvert in the
village unless specifically authorized herein.
   C.   Supervision: All public rights of way and work thereon or therewith
shall be subject to the supervision of the superintendent of public works.
(Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-4: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED FOR UTILITIES:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the superintendent of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
8-4-10 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 2011-
08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct, install, maintain, operate
or perform any of the following on, along, over, or under any village right of
way without first filing an application with the superintendent of public works
and obtaining a permit issued by the village except as otherwise provided for
in this chapter:
      1.   Structures or objects creating a safety hazard including, but not
limited to, permanent or portable buildings, signs, lights, displays, fences,
walls, trees, bark mulch piles or dirt piles.
      2.   Construction, excavation, clearing, dredging for installation of
drainage or underground utilities conducted on, over, or under a public right
of way.
      3.   Temporary use or blockage of a street, road or other public way for
parades, street fairs, or similar events or occurrences.
      4.   Any excavation, tree or brush clearing, ditch or culvert alteration,
or utility work.
      5.   The installation, construction and maintenance of utility poles and
wires.
      6.   Any emergency work over, under, or on a public right of way shall
require the person doing the emergency work to make every effort to obtain a
permit from the village. If a permit cannot be obtained with the permission
from the village, the details of the emergency and public safeguards shall be
explained to the superintendent of public works prior to commencing work.
Within twenty four (24) hours of the emergency work, the person or company that
did the work shall submit any applicable written applications, insurance forms,
financial escrow and fees to administrating official for review and approval.
(Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-6: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
      1.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be
made by the owner or occupant of the property adjacent to the right of way, or
utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a minimum,
the following:
         a.   If applicable, the property owner's name, address and telephone
number if applying for improvements to right of way that is for the benefit of
the property adjacent to the right of way;
         b.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the owner,
his/her telephone number and his/her interest in the work to be performed;
         c.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all professional
consultants, if any, advising the applicant with respect to the application;
         d.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the proposed work. The scope and detail of such description shall be
appropriate to the nature and character of the work to be performed, with
special emphasis on those matters likely to be affected or impacted by the work
proposed;
         e.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village;
         f.   If a utility, the following additional information or
documentation shall be required:
            (1)   A written traffic control plan, if necessary, demonstrating
the protective measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the
"Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or
damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to efficient
pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and
            (2)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature
of potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
            (3)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
            (4)   Evidence of insurance as required in section
8-4-10 of this chapter;
            (5)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in
section
8-4-12 of this chapter; and
            (6)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of
this chapter (see section
8-4-25 of this chapter).
      2.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of
Utilities: In addition to the requirements of subsection A1f of this section,
the permit application shall include the following items, as applicable to the
specific utility that is the subject of the permit application:
         a.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
         b.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
         c.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
         d.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land
and water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection
agency, division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water
reclamation district, have been satisfied; or
         e.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
      3.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the owner, occupant, applicant or utility in writing to the
village within thirty (30) days after the change necessitating the amendment.
      4.   Application Fees: There is no fee for the permit that may be
required as stated in this chapter. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-7: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the superintendent
of public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the superintendent of public works shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the superintendent of
public works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the superintendent of public works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the superintendent of public works, that
the construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Notification To Village: Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone
company act, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer
shall notify the village that it intends to commence work governed by this
chapter for facilities for the provision of telecommunications services. Such
notice shall consist of plans, specifications, and other documentation
sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall
be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten
(10) days prior to the commencement of work that does not require excavation
and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of work requiring
excavation. The superintendent of public works shall specify the portion of the
right of way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   Failure To Provide Location To Retailer: In the event that the
superintendent of public works fails to provide such specification of location
to the telecommunications retailer within either: a) ten (10) days after
service of notice to the village by the telecommunications retailer in the case
of work not involving excavation for new construction or b) twenty five (25)
days after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of
work involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer
may commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Application For Permit: Upon the provision of such specification by
the village, where a permit is required for work pursuant to section
8-4-5 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
      4.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-8: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion; however, no
permit shall be valid for more than one year after issuance. If a permit
expires prior to completion of construction, a party is eligible for issuance
of another permit and may submit an application requesting such.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required For Utilities: No construction shall
begin pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter to a utility prior to
attendance by the permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who
will perform any work under the permit at a preconstruction meeting. The
preconstruction meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by
the village with such village representatives in attendance as the village
deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work
under the permit, and reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas
where work will occur, including, without limitation, presence or absence of
other utility facilities in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid
disruption of other utilities, use of rights of way by the public during
construction, and access and egress by adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-9: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS FOR UTILITIES:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities of utilities deviate
in any material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings
and specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
8-4-25 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-10: INSURANCE REQUIRED FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the Village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the Village.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement: (Ord. 2011-
08, 3-21-2011)
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Mayor or Village Administrator of such
intent to cancel or not to renew.
(Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011; amd. Ord. 2017-20, 4-20-2017)
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the Village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the Village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self- insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the Workers' Compensation Act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the Village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-11: INDEMNIFICATION BY UTILITIES:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the Village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the Village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-12: SECURITY FUND REQUIRED FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: A utility permittee shall establish a security fund in a form
and in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the superintendent of public works or village
engineer, and may also include reasonable, directly related costs that the
village estimates are likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform
such restoration. Where the construction of facilities proposed under the
permit will be performed in phases in multiple locations in the village, with
each phase consisting of construction of facilities in one location or a
related group of locations, and where construction in another phase will not be
undertaken prior to substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase
or phases, the superintendent of public works may, in the exercise of sound
discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of security which shall
be applicable to each phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of
the security fund for phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount
that would have been required under the provisions of this subsection C for any
single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-
21-2011)
8-4-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Revocation Or Denial Of Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-14: NO PERMIT REQUIRED:
The following may be constructed, installed, maintained, operated or performed
on, along, over or under any village right of way without first obtaining a
permit issued by the village:
   A.   Mailboxes:
      1.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, an individual may
erect and place a receptacle for receipt of U.S. mail and motor or rural
delivery of daily or weekly newspapers subject to United States postal service
regulations.
      2.   All such installations shall be placed so as to assure public safety
and facilitate snow removal. Design criteria of the U.S. postal service shall
be adhered to with respect to size and placement of mailboxes.
      3.   Persons installing such objects shall be responsible to do so in a
safe and appropriate manner and shall be responsible for any damage or
liability caused as a result of such installation.
      4.   The village shall not be liable for the repair or replacement of
mailboxes damaged by village vehicles or employees when the mailbox is in
violation of this section. Village liability for repair or replacement of any
mailbox is limited to Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00). This limitation shall not
apply to wilful and wanton conduct by village employees directly causing
mailbox damage and such liability shall be limited to the cost of repair or
replacement for a same or similar mailbox or with a standard mailbox provided
by the Village.
   B.   Driveways: See
chapter 3 of this title for further information and requirements.
   C.   Driveway Culverts: See
chapter 2 of this title for further information and requirements.
   D.   Sidewalks: See
chapter 1 of this title for further information and requirements.
   E.   Installation And Maintenance Of Service Connections: No permit shall be
required from utilities for installation and maintenance of service connections
to customers’ premises when there will be no disruption of the right of way.
(Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011; amd. Ord. 2018-07, 3-15-2024)
8-4-15: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status:
      1.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less
than thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
      2.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
      3.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding
must be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2011-
08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-16: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the superintendent of public works or village engineer shall
determine, in the exercise of sound engineering judgment, which principles
apply and such decision shall be final. If requested, the superintendent of
public works or village engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-17: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The permittee is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the permittee shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
8-4-23 of this chapter, the permittee shall provide such notice as is
practicable under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The permittee shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-18: LOCATION OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the superintendent of public works determines that
the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   Materials And Methods: The design materials and construction
methods will provide maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity: Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion
needs is provided in the initial installation.
         c.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker
at each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2011-
08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-19: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the
superintendent of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring
or jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the superintendent of public works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the superintendent of public works, the utility, at its expense,
shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed
facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new
pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by
the superintendent of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
8-4-25 of this chapter the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the superintendent of public works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communication lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping. (Liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4.)
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the superintendent of public works. With the
approval of the superintendent of public works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for
ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the village superintendent
of public works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire,
poles, cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of
way prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the
public or an obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way
and other property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval
must be obtained from the village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the superintendent of public
works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
are between the hours of six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. Monday through Saturday.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 2011-
08, 3-21-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
8-4-20: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society Of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the superintendent of public works that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-21: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the superintendent of
public works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-22: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION BY UTILITIES:
   A.   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights
of way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance
by the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes
restoration of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall
be made using materials and methods approved by the village superintendent of
public works. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to
restore the right of way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period provided in
this section may be extended by the superintendent of public works for good
cause shown. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-23: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE BY UTILITIES:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
superintendent of public works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-24: EXISTING STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Structures or uses in place as of the date of adoption hereof will
generally not be subject to forced removal, subject to the following:
      1.   That they are not deemed to be a danger to the public. The
superintendent of public works shall determine whether a structure is a danger
to the public using the following criteria:
         a.   The structure or use is not maintained in a safe manner;
         b.   The structure or use is so located that it impedes snow removal
operations;
         c.   The structure or use is so located that it impedes free flow of
traffic;
         d.   The structure or use is so located that it impedes the access to
public property;
         e.   The structure or use is so located that it causes or helps to
cause drainage problems in the general area; or
         f.   The structure or use does not otherwise affect the health,
safety, or welfare of persons or property.
      2.   That the owner accepts all liability that may arise because of the
said structure and agrees to indemnify the village, in writing, for all
resulting damage or injury because of the presence of the structure in the
right of way.
      3.   That the owner agrees to remove the structure or use at his expense
if the structure is deemed to be a danger to the public or is impeding roadway
or utility work. If an owner fails to remove such an item upon notice, the
superintendent of public works or his designee may direct to remove the same
and the village shall not reimburse the property owner for the loss caused by
the removal and disposal of said structure. The property owner shall be
responsible and reimburse the village for the cost incurred for removal of any
structure.
      4.   Any person notified by the village to remove a structure, use or
object from the right of way may appeal to the village board of trustees
pursuant to the requirements of section
8-4-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-25: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: Any person or entity may request a variance from
one or more of the provisions of this chapter; however, such request must be
made in writing to the superintendent of public works as a part of the permit
application. The request shall identify each provision of this chapter from
which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The superintendent of public works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The village superintendent of
public works may authorize a variance only if the party requesting the variance
has demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the requesting party
(such as terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the superintendent of public works may require the
party requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that
may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out
the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-26: APPEALS:
Any party aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or determination,
including denial of a variance, made by the superintendent of public works
under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the
village board of trustees, or such other board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
village clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The village board of trustees shall
commence its consideration of the appeal at the board's next regularly
scheduled meeting occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the
appeal. The village board shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-
2011)
8-4-27: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person or entity that does not comply with the requirements of this chapter
shall be in violation of this chapter and subject to a minimum fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00) and a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
In addition to a fine, there may be times when the village will incur delay or
other costs, including third party claims, because the person or entity will
not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the
person or entity shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the person or entity shall bear the village's
costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
person or entity that does not pay the costs apportioned to them.
Any violation of this chapter may also result in immediate job stoppage and/or
removal of all obstructions from a public right of way. The village shall not
be responsible for remediating any obstruction removed in a right of way. (Ord.
2011-08, 3-21-2011)
8-4-28: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-08, 3-21-2011)
CHAPTER 5
RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Rules And Regulations
8-5-2: Enforcement Officials
8-5-3: Violation; Penalty
8-5-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations shall apply to all persons entering into,
going from, using, or upon the premises comprising any of the recreational
facilities of the Village:
   A.   Unauthorized Entry: No one shall be allowed to enter into or go upon
any of the premises which are included within any recreational facility when
the entrance gates are closed or when there is any sign or other marking posted
at or near an entrance or other area of access indicating that the recreational
facility is closed or not otherwise open to the public.
   B.   Vehicle Use Restrictions:
      1.   No one shall bring into or upon any recreational facility any type
of all-terrain vehicle or two (2) or three (3) wheel motor driven cycle that is
not licensed for use on public highways.
      2.   Motor vehicles permitted and used in Centennial Park shall be driven
at a speed not greater than ten (10) miles per hour 1 .
      3.   No motor vehicle of any kind shall be allowed on the levy adjoining
the lake or pond area at Centennial Park.
      4.   Parking is allowed in only those designated as parking areas and
areas along roadsides. Parking is not permitted in any other areas unless
authorized at a special event of the Village.
      1. See also subsection
7-3-2B of this Code.
   C.   Swimming And Wading: No swimming or wading is permitted in any lake,
pond, creek, stream, or other waterway at any time. (Ord. 2013-34, 9-5-2013)
   D.   Boating: No boating shall be permitted on any lake, pond or any other
waterway at any time, except for kayaks and canoes at Centennial Park, which
such usage is subject to the following rules and regulations:
      1.   Dates And Hours: Kayaking/canoeing is only allowed May 1 through
October 31 and of the hours between when the park opens and until sunset.
      2.   Prohibited Activities: No swimming, wading, or overturning- tipping
of any watercraft is allowed.
      3.   Age Of Operator: Any watercraft operator under the age of sixteen
(16) must be accompanied by a responsible adult over the age of eighteen (18).
      4.   Personal Floatation Devices (PFD): It is unlawful for any person to
operate a canoe/kayak unless at least one U.S. Coast Guard approved PFD of the
following types or their equivalent is on board for each person:
         a.   Type I.
         b.   Type II.
         c.   Type III.
      Any child under the age of thirteen (13) is required to wear the PFD at
all times while in the watercraft.
      5.   Ability Of Operator: The owner of any watercraft or any person
operating such watercraft shall not authorize or knowingly permit the same to
be operated by any person who by way of physical or mental disability is
incapable of operating such watercraft under the prevailing circumstances.
      6.   Drugs And Alcohol: No person shall operate a watercraft while under
the influence of alcohol or other drug to the degree which renders him/her
incapable of safely operating such watercraft, or who has any amount of drug,
substance, or compound in his/her blood or urine resulting from the unlawful
use or consumption of cannabis as defined in the Cannabis Control Act or a
controlled substance listed in the Illinois Controlled Substance Act.
      7.   Careful Operation: No person shall operate any canoe or kayak in
such a manner as to willfully or wantonly endanger life, limb or property of
any person. This includes, but is not limited to, intentionally colliding or
ramming another watercraft or trying to capsize another.
      8.   Motors Prohibited: No motors are allowed. This includes this use of
any type of trolling motor.
   E.   Fishing: Fishing is allowed except during those times during which
there is a sign present stating or otherwise indicating “No Fishing”. However,
fishing during allowed times can be done only by those persons who are properly
licensed by the State of Illinois and persons who are not required by the State
of Illinois to have a fishing license. When fishing is permitted, those who are
fishing must comply with all State of Illinois laws, rules and regulations
pertaining to said activity. However, at no time shall anyone be permitted to
bottle fish, can fish, or net fish, nor shall anyone utilize seining as the
method of fishing at any time.
   F.   Ice Skating: No ice skating shall be permitted upon any lake, pond or
any other body of water or waterway located within the boundaries of a
recreational facility.
   G.   Firearms And Weapons: No firearms or weapons of any kind shall be
permitted in or upon any recreational facility; except, however, firearms will
be allowed for the limited purpose and while being used for ceremonial
purposes, antique displays or antique replica displays.
   H.   Alcoholic Beverages: No alcoholic beverages shall be brought into or
upon any recreational facility unless approved by the Village Board in advance,
in writing.
   I.   Littering: No littering is permitted. All trash and debris shall be
deposited in waste receptacles or containers located at a recreational
facility.
   J.   Damage To Property: No defacing, destroying, breaking, writing on,
painting on, or altering of any natural or manmade object, property, equipment,
structure, or other improvement shall be permitted.
   K.   Camping: Camping is not allowed at any Village owned park or
recreational facility unless a special event permit is first applied for and
approved by the Village Board of Heyworth.
   L.   Fires: Fires are permitted only in fireplaces and grills provided by
the Village at a recreational facility. All fires must be completely
extinguished before leaving a recreational facility.
   M.   Reserved Facilities: Use of facilities may be reserved on a first come,
first serve basis. Scheduling for reserved use must be done at the Village Hall
office on its recreational facilities master calendar. Reservations are not
required for organized athletic activities and programs such as summer league,
school district, PCSL, or Corn Valley. Scheduling of park facilities for
organized athletic activities and programs shall be in accordance with the
intergovernmental agreement passed by the Village Board on December 6, 1999,
per Ordinance 1999-15.
   N.   Improper Language: No abusive or profane language is permitted.
   O.   Skateboards And In-Line Skates: Skateboards or in-line skates are
permitted on paved walkways and trails. However, skateboarders and in-line
skaters must yield the right-of-way to any and all pedestrians. Skateboards and
in- line skates are also permitted on basketball courts but only during those
times when no other person is playing basketball (it is the intent of this
regulation that those who wish to play basketball have priority over usage of
basketball courts). Skateboards and in-line skates are not permitted or allowed
in any other area of any recreational facility. (Ord. 2013-34, 9-5-2013)
   P.   Pets: Pets are allowed at recreational facilities, except for in the
splash pad area. However, they must be kept on a leash and controlled in such a
manner that they do not annoy, interfere with, or frighten any other person at
a recreational facility. Animal waste must be picked up by the owner or other
person in control of the pet and deposited in a waste receptacle or be removed
from the recreational facility. No pets are allowed on any baseball field at
any recreational facility. (Ord. 2016-52, 11-17-2016)
   Q.   Playground Equipment Usage: Use of playground equipment shall be
limited to manufacturer’s specifications.
   R.   Physical Altercations: No bullying, pushing, shoving or fighting is
allowed at the Village recreational facilities.
   S.   Volunteer Park Splash Park Rules And Regulations: In addition to the
rules hereinbefore set forth, the splash park located at Volunteer Park (also
referred to as Merle Shannon Park), shall be as follows:
      1.   Hours And Days Of Operation: The splash park shall generally only be
in operation from nine o’clock (9:00) A.M. to eight o’clock (8:00) P.M., seven
(7) days a week, between the months of May and the end of September. The hours
and days of operation may be amended from time to time as deemed appropriate.
      2.   Pets: No pets are allowed in the splash pad area.
      3.   Bikes, Skates: No bikes, skates, in-line skates or any other similar
apparatus is allowed on the splash pad area.
      4.   Swim Attire: Babies and toddlers must wear plastic pants/swim
diapers or other such similar swim appropriate diapers for this age.
      5.   Glass: No glass is allowed on the splash pad area.
      6.   Smoking: No smoking is allowed on or within ten feet (10') of the
splash pad area.
      7.   Running: No running is allowed on the splash pad area.
      8.   Spitting: No spitting is allowed on the splash pad area. (Ord. 2013-
34, 9-5-2013)
   T.   Hours: All parks, except for Centennial Park, shall close at nine
o’clock (9:00) P.M. unless otherwise deemed appropriate. Centennial Park shall
close at ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. unless otherwise deemed appropriate. From
April 1 until October 1, Centennial Park may be left open beyond ten o’clock
(10:00) P.M. as deemed appropriate by the Village’s Police Department.
   U.   Centennial Park Ballfield Rentals: The baseball and softball ballfields
located at Centennial Park are available for general public usage subject to
specific priority usage that may be established by agreement of the Village
Board of Heyworth. Additionally, these ballfields may also be rented/reserved
by organizations or the general public provided that the Village’s Centennial
Park Field Rental Application & Agreement is completed and submitted with the
requisite fee by the requesting party and such Rental Agreement is approved by
the Village. The rental/reservation will be subject to the terms set forth in
the Rental Agreement as well as all other rules and regulations of the Village.
(Ord. 2019-41, 9-5-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-36, 7-20-2023; Ord. 2024-53, 9-5-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-3-2B of this Code
8-5-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The Village may from time to time appoint and employ one or more individuals in
addition to its police officers to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-34, 9-5-2013)
8-5-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person or organization in violation of any of the rules,
regulations or provisions of this chapter, except for subsection
8-5-1D of this chapter, shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each separate offense. For purposes of interpreting the rules and regulations
set forth in this chapter, a "separate offense" shall mean, but not be limited
to, each violation which occurs as a result of any one or more singular act(s).
   B.   Any person in violation of any of the rules, regulations or provisions
of subsection
8-5-1D of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as follows:
      1.   First offense: No less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   Second offense: No less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      3.   Third offense: No less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and no
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Each offense may be considered a separate offense. For purposes of interpreting
the rules and regulations set forth in subsection
8-5-1D of this chapter, a "separate offense" shall mean, but not be limited to,
each violation which occurs as a result of any one or more singular act(s).
(Ord. 2017-58, 8-17-2017)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL EVENTS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose And Intent
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Rules And Regulations
8-6-4: Permit Required
8-6-5: No Permit Required
8-6-6: Enforcement Officials
8-6-7: Violation; Penalty
8-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish rules and regulations for special
events in the village of Heyworth. This chapter is also intended to protect the
public and public property when special events are held and to provide
uniformity in use of public property for events by parties other than the
village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2011-39, 8-29-2011)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
HOST:          The person(s) or entity that is proposing and overseeing a
               special event.
PARADE:        A public procession, especially one celebrating a special day or
               event, that may include marching bands and floats.
               An event that is not conducted by the village of Heyworth and
SPECIAL EVENT: that involves the use of public property for entertainment or
               other like purpose for an intended larger group of people. (Ord.
               2011-39, 8-29-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-43, 9-19-2023)
               
 
8-6-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Application Approval: No person or entity shall utilize any public
property for a special event within the village of Heyworth unless an
application approved by the village is completed and submitted to the village
and a permit is issued by the village for the special event.
   B.   Cleanup After Event: In addition to the other rules and regulations
listed herein, any person(s) or entities hosting a special event must clean up
and dispose any trash or debris caused by or resulting from the special event
and return the property utilized to a same or similar condition as was present
before the special event.
   C.   Adherence To All Laws: Any person(s) or entity that receives a special
event permit shall be required to adhere to all other applicable local, state,
federal or other laws.
8-6-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall utilize any public property for a
special event within the village of Heyworth without first receiving a permit
issued by the village of Heyworth for the special event.
   B.   Application For Special Event Permit: The following information, at a
minimum, shall be required to be submitted or completed for a permit to be
issued for a special event:
      1.   The name, address, and contact information of the applicant;
      2.   The name, address, and contact information of the person(s) hosting
the special event;
      3.   The date, time, and purposed location of the special event;
      4.   A general description of why the event is to be held;
      5.   A general description of what entertainment, structures, and/or
obstructions that may be present at the event;
      6.   A detailed description of what security measures, if any, will be
taken at or for the event;
      7.   If the event is not for charitable or other not for profit purposes,
proof of insurance shall be required;
      8.   The host shall be required to execute a "waiver and hold harmless
agreement" or similar document approved by the village; and
      9.   Any other information the village deems necessary and appropriate.
   C.   Other Permits Required: If a special event permit is issued by the
village, the host(s) and applicant(s) may still have to apply for and receive
any other permits necessary related to the special event from the village.
Other applicable permits may include, but are not limited to, noise permits,
excavation/utility/curb cut permits, vendor or temporary merchant permits, and/
or a right of way permit as required per this code. (Ord. 2011-39, 8-29-2011)
   D.   Permit Approval: All special event permits shall be approved by the
Village Board of Heyworth, unless such permit is for a parade, in which case
such permit shall be approved by the Village Administration. (Ord. 2011-39, 8-
29-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-43, 9-19-2023)
8-6-5: NO PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No special event permit shall be required for any of the following
activities or events:
      1.   General day to day use of public property, including village
streets, sidewalks, rights of way, or recreational facilities.
      2.   Use of village parks and recreational facilities for sporting events
or activities.
      3.   Use of village parks and recreational facilities for musical
entertainment that does not utilize an amplifying device in excess of fifty
feet (50'), that is not performed for profit, and that does not require the use
of any type of structure (i.e., tents, stages, platforms, etc.). (Ord. 2011-39,
8-29-2011)
8-6-6: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The village may from time to time appoint and employ one or more individuals in
addition to its police officers to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-39, 8-29-2011)
8-6-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person or entity in violation of any of the rules, regulations or
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each separate offense. For purposes of interpreting the rules and
regulations set forth in this chapter, a "separate offense" shall mean, but not
be limited to, each violation which occurs as a result of any one or more
singular act(s).
   B.   In addition to any fine, should any person or entity cause or should
any person participating in, attending, or involved with the special event
cause any damage to any public property during the course of the special event,
whether in setting up, during, or removal, the applicant and/or host shall be
liable to the village for any and all costs to repair or replace such property.
(Ord. 2011-39, 8-29-2011)
CHAPTER 7
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose And Scope
8-7-2: Definitions
8-7-3: Zoning
8-7-4: Permit And Application Requirements
8-7-5: Collocation Requirements And Conditions
8-7-6: Abandonment
8-7-7: Fees
8-7-8: Dispute Resolution
8-7-9: Indemnification
8-7-10: Insurance
8-7-11: Severability
8-7-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collection of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act 1 .
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, only
to the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-5-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. Public Act 100-0585.
8-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the Village
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include Village-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
2018-34, 7-5-2018)
8-7-3: ZONING:
Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and subject to
administrative review, except as provided in subsection
8-7-5I, "Height Exceptions Or Variances", of this chapter, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated: a) in rights-of-way in any
zoning district; or b) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for
commercial or industrial/manufacturing use. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-5-2018)
8-7-4: PERMIT AND APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits; Applicability:
      1.   Permit Required: A wireless provider shall obtain one or more
permits from the Village to collocate a small wireless facility and/or to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures. In order to have a permit issued, such party shall complete an
application approved by the Village.
      2.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable Village
codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter. If
the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable Village Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      3.   Exceptions: The Village shall not require an application, approval
or permit, or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service
provider authorized to occupy the rights- of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      4.   Applications: The following describes the application requirements
and process for issuance of a small wireless facility permit when required.
   B.   Applications:
      1.   Application Information Requirements: A wireless provider shall
provide the following information to the Village, together with the Village's
Small Cell Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit
application to collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or
wireless support structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the Collocation
Requirements and Conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   Priority: The first completed application shall have priority
over applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Collocation On Existing Poles: An application to collocate a
small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support
structure, or replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support
structure shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed
approved if the Village fails to approve or deny the application within ninety
(90) days after the submission of a completed application. However, if an
applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved
basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its intention to
invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75) days after
the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be deemed approved
on the latter of the 90th day after submission of the complete application or
the 10th day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the Village.
The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the Village's
denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under this
chapter.
         c.   Collocation On New Utility Poles: An application to collocate a
small wireless facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole
shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the
Village fails to approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty
(120) days after the submission of a completed application. However, if an
applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved
basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its intention to
invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five (105) days
after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be deemed
approved on the latter of the 120th day after submission of the complete
application or the 10th day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by
the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the
Village's denial of the permit request within the time limits as provided under
this chapter.
         d.   Denials: The Village shall deny an application which does not
meet the requirements of this chapter. If the Village determines that
applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that concern public safety, or the
Collocation Requirements and Conditions contained herein require that the
utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before the requested
collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility
pole or wireless support structure at the cost of the provider. The Village
shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code provisions
or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies an
application. The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village
and resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice
of denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application
fee. The Village shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty
(30) days after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed
approved. Failure to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days
of denial shall require the applicant to submit a new application with
applicable fees, and recommencement of the Village's review period. The
applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to proceed with
the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with
the revised application. Any review of a revised application shall be limited
to the deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does
not apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         e.   Master Pole Attachment Agreements: Within thirty (30) days after
an approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal
utility pole, the Village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole
Attachment Agreement, as provided by the Village, for the initial collocation
on a Municipal utility pole by the applicant. For subsequent approved permits
to collocate on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the
Village and the applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master
Pole Attachment Agreement.
         f.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after
receiving an application, the Village shall determine whether the application
is complete and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the
Village must specifically identify the missing information. An application
shall be deemed complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the
applicant within thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees
specifically enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted
by the applicant to the Village.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
         g.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled
by:
            (1)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
Village; or
            (2)   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
         h.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate
small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be
allowed, at the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and
receive a single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small
wireless facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same
type of small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
         i.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the Village by personal
delivery at the Village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
         j.   Application Fees: Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State
law or local ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be
accompanied by the required application fee. See section
8-7-7 of this chapter for applicable fees. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-5-2018)
8-7-5: COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village reasonably
determines that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
   B.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
   C.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment. Unacceptable interference will be determined
by and measured in accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations
addressing unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other
spectrum licensed by a public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
   D.   Placement Of Facilities On Poles: The wireless provider shall not
collocate small wireless facilities on Village utility poles that are part of
an electric distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   E.   Adherence To Codes: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety and as authorized and allowed by the Small Wireless Facilities
Deployment Act.
   F.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a Village ordinance, written policy adopted by the Village, a comprehensive
plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the
rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
   G.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this section, a wireless
provider shall not be required to collocate small wireless facilities on any
specific utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to
collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with
respect to an application for the collocation of a small wireless facility
associated with a new utility pole, the Village may propose that the small
wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or existing
wireless support structure within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
   H.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
      1.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
      2.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
   I.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height for a
new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which the
small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall apply
for a zoning variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions set
forth in the Zoning Ordinance of this Code.
   J.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the Village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
   K.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
   L.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
   M.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   N.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
      4.   For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the
meaning given to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any
requirement: a) to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service or b) to obtain any required permission to
install, place, maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than
small wireless facilities subject to this chapter.
   O.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the Village and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
Village utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before June 1, 2018, subject
to applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the Village
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the Village
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the Village's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-5-2018)
8-7-6: ABANDONMENT:
A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety (90) days after receipt
of written notice from the Village notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its Pole Attachment Agreement for Municipal
utility poles, through the nuisance abatement procedures and costs as set forth
in this Code, or whatever actions provided for by other law for removal and
cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-5-2018)
8-7-7: FEES:
   A.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Application fees are non-refundable.
   B.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a Village
utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year; or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to
the wireless provider's use of space on the Village utility pole. If the
Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs, the fee
shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after the first
annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-5-
2018)
8-7-8: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of McLean County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act and
this chapter. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation
of small wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right- of-
way, the Village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles
at annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per
Municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of
the dispute. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-5-2018)
8-7-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
Village improvements or right- of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
Village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the Village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-5-2018)
8-7-10: INSURANCE:
   A.   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      1.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
      2.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      3.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of Village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   B.   The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   C.   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the Village. A wireless provider
that self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to
comply with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this
section. A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
Village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage limits required by the Village. (Ord. 2018-34, 7-
5-2018)
8-7-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstances is ruled unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter that can be
given effect without the invalid application or provision, and each invalid
provision or invalid application of this chapter is severable. (Ord. 2018-34,
7-5-2018)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Waterworks And Sewerage Department; Public Works Superintendent
9-1-3: Information Cards
9-1-4: Permit To Connect; Fees
9-1-5: Excavations To Be Protected
9-1-6: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-1-7: Damage To System
9-1-8: Trace Wires Required
9-1-9: Violation; Penalties
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
this chapter and chapters 2, 3 and 4 of this title shall be as set out in this
section:
BASIC USER CHARGE: A. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
water system.
   B.   The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer system.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the waterworks.
CURB COCK: A shutoff valve attached to a water service pipe from a water main
to a building installed near the curb, which may be operated by a valve key to
start or stop flow in the water supply lines of a building. Also called curb
stop.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
   Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection
agency.
   Federal Act: The federal 1996 safe drinking water act amendments.
LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
   Village: The village government of the village of Heyworth.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
REPLACEMENT: A. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
   B.   Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment works
to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes replacement.
SERVICE BOX: A valve box used with corporation or curb cock.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
   Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970 1 .
   State Loan: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of waterworks as provided by the Illinois anti-pollution bond act
and for making such loans as filed with the secretary of state of the state of
Illinois.
SURCHARGE: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge which is levied
on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the concentration
values established in section
9-4-4 of this title.
USEFUL LIFE: A. The estimated period during which the waterworks will be
operated.
   B.   The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be thirty (30) years from the date
of startup of any wastewater facilities constructed with a state grant.
USER CHARGE: A. A charge levied on users of waterworks for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   B.   A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of operation
and maintenance and a debt service.
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per a two (2) month period levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in section
9-4-4 of this title and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge and
a surcharge, if applicable.
WATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
   Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water constituent. It
is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters (1,000 ml) of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water
analysis.
   ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division
of laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
WATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge for a two (2) month period levied on all users
of the combined waterworks and sewerage system for water service.
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the waterworks and sewerage system. (Ord.
1999-11, 10-4-1999; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1.
9-1-2: WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE DEPARTMENT; PUBLIC WORKS SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Department Established: The combined waterworks and sewerage system in
the village shall be maintained and operated as a separate department and shall
be referred to in this title as the department.
   B.   Superintendent Of Public Works: The department shall be maintained and
operated under the direct supervision of the superintendent of public works 1
and under the general supervision of the mayor and village board of trustees.
(Ord. 2010-02, 2-16-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 8, article I of this code.
9-1-3: INFORMATION CARDS:
   A.   The village hereby authorizes the use and requirement of information
cards to be completed and filed with the department by water/sewer consumers in
the village that open, exchange, transfer or otherwise establish new water/
sewer usage in the village.
   B.   The information cards provided by the village water/sewer users shall
be and remain confidential and shall only be utilized by authorized village
employees or duly authorized persons contracted by or working with the village
for water/sewer consumer account issues. (Res. 2008-34, 9-2-2008)
9-1-4: PERMIT TO CONNECT; FEES:
No connection shall be made with the combined waterworks and sewerage system
without submittal of a completed application and fees for a utility permit by
the property owner and issuance of utility permit by the village 1 . See
section
9-4-13 of this title for meter and inspection fees for water and sewerage
connections. All connections to the water and sewerage system shall be made by
a plumber licensed by the state of Illinois and at the expense of the property
owner unless the village specifies otherwise. Any connection made to the water
system shall be supervised by the superintendent of public works or his
designee, and any connection to the sewerage system shall be inspected by the
superintendent of public works or his designee after connection but prior to
covering the connection. Any connection or opening made with the waterworks and
sewerage system without such permission or in any manner different from the
mode prescribed for such opening or connection shall subject the maker to a
penalty as herein provided. (Ord. 2009-29, 3-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 10, chapter 4 of this code for further information.
9-1-5: EXCAVATIONS TO BE PROTECTED:
All openings made in streets and sidewalks shall be protected at all times by
sufficient barriers, on which signal lights or flares shall be placed and
maintained after dark, together with such other provisions contained in an
ordinance pertaining to street openings 1 . (1981 Code §§ 6-3-17, 6-6-53)
 
Notes
1 3. See title 10, chapter 4 of this code.
9-1-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Entry Powers; Limitations On Requested Information:
      1.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
village, the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S.
environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and chapters 2, 3 and 4 of this title. The
superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
      2.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   B.   Safety Precautions: While performing the necessary work on private
properties, the superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
employees, and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by village employees and against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing
out of gauging and sampling operations, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
section
9-3-8 of this title. (1981 Code § 6-2-10)
9-1-7: DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, remove, deface or tamper with any conduit, structure,
appurtenance, manhole, catch basin, cover, or equipment which is a part of the
combined waterworks and sewerage system of the village. Any person violating
this section shall be subject to immediate arrest. (1981 Code § 6-7-63)
9-1-8: TRACE WIRES REQUIRED:
   A.   All utilities in the Village of Heyworth must be locatable as required
by the Illinois underground utility facilities damage prevention act (220 ILCS
50/1 et seq.). This includes all water, sanitary, storm sewer, downspout and
sump pump drainage lines, as well as their associated laterals.
   B.   All water mains and service lines shall be laid with a number twelve
(12) (or larger diameter) AWG THWN single strand copper coated steel wire
(cable) suitable for direct burial with the outer insulated coating being blue
in color. The cable shall be taped or attached to the main or service pipe at
an interval not exceeding five feet (5'). Sufficient slack shall be provided
prior to backfill operations to allow the cable to be brought to the surface at
each main valve box and each curb stop. Each lateral line locating cable shall
be spliced with an appropriate underground rated splice connection to the main
line locating cable to provide a continuous circuit. Service laterals from the
curb box to the inside of the residential structure shall be required to have
the same locating cable brought to the surface at the curb stop and inside the
home within two feet (2') of the water meter. Inside the home, this cable shall
not be connected to any portion of the electrical system.
   C.   All sanitary sewer mains and service lateral lines shall be laid with a
number twelve (12) (or larger diameter) AWG THWN single strand copper coated
steel wire (cable) suitable for direct burial with the outer insulated coating
being green in color. The cable shall be taped or attached to the main or
service pipe at an interval not exceeding five feet (5'). Sufficient slack
shall be provided prior to backfill operations to allow the cable to be brought
to the surface at each manhole and each lateral end stake. Each lateral line
locating cable shall be spliced with an appropriate underground rated splice
connection to the main line locating cable to provide a continuous circuit.
Service laterals from thelateral end stake to the inside of the residential
structure shall be required to have the same locating cable brought to the
surface at the customers cleanout and inside the home within two feet (2') of
where the sewer line leaves the foundation. If the customer cleanout is located
in pavement, then a separate test station shall be provided so that the
locating cable can be found and energized without entering the structure.
Inside the home, this cable shall not be connected to any portion of the
electrical system.
   D.   All storm sewer mains and service lateral lines, including sump pump
drain lines, gutter downspout lines, and similar, shall be laid with a number
twelve (12) (or larger diameter) AWG THWN single strand copper coated steel
wire (cable) suitable for direct burial with the outer insulated coating being
green in color. The cable shall be taped or attached to the main or service
pipe at an interval not exceeding five feet (5'). Sufficient slack shall be
provided prior to backfill operations to allow the cable to be brought to the
surface at each manhole and each lateral end stake. Each lateral line locating
cable shall be spliced with an appropriate underground rated splice connection
to the main line locating cable to provide a continuous circuit. Service
laterals from the lateral end stake to downspout or sump pump connection shall
be required to have the same locating cable brought to the surface at any
cleanout or downspout connection point as well as inside the home within two
feet (2') of where the sump pump line leaves the structure. If the customer
connection points are located in pavement then a separate test station shall be
provided so that the locating cable can be found and energized without entering
the structure. Inside the home this cable shall not be connected to any portion
of the electrical system. (Ord. 2024-62, 12-5-2024)
9-1-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Unless otherwise provided, any person found to be
violating any provisions of this chapter and chapters 2, 3 and 4 of this title,
except section 9-1-7 of this chapter, shall be served by the village with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided in subsection A of this section shall
be fined as follows:
      1.   Not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense or violation of this chapter.
      2.   Not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense or violation of chapter 2 of
this title.
      3.   Not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense or violation of chapter 3 or 4 of this
title.
   C.   Lack Of Sufficient Funds: Any person making payment on a water/sewer
account and the payment is denied by a banking facility for lack of sufficient
funds, the account shall incur a nonsufficient funds fee penalty as provided in
section 9-4-13 of this title for each such payment rendered.
   D.   Each Day A Separate Offense: Each day any violation continues beyond
the time limit provided in subsection A of this section shall be deemed a
separate offense. (2011 Code; Ord. 2024-62, 12-5-2024)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Connection To Public System; Separate Services Required
9-2-2: Private Water Systems
9-2-3: Restrictions On New And Replacement Connections
9-2-4: Installation Of Service Pipes
9-2-5: Extension Of Mains
9-2-6: Residential Antidisplacement And Relocation Assistance Plan
9-2-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
9-2-8: Responsibilities Of Owners/Users
9-2-1: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SYSTEM; SEPARATE SERVICES REQUIRED:
   A.   In all cases where a standard water main is now installed or hereafter
may be installed in any street, alley, public way or easement in the Village,
all water users located on any lot or parcel of real estate fronting or
abutting on any such street, alley, public way or easement shall make or cause
to be made connection to such standard water main and pay the tapping charges
therefor. All users shall discontinue any connection which they theretofore may
have had with any other water line. (1981 Code § 6-6-59)
   B.   No building water service shall be laid or used to serve two (2) or
more distinct premises or buildings. (1981 Code § 6-6-9)
   C.   All users of the public water system shall have responsibility for the
installation, maintenance and replacement of all pipe, valves, and
appurtenances from the service side of the curb stop. (Ord. 2016-34, 9-1-2016)
9-2-2: PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS:
No property situated within the Village limits shall be served by private water
supply unless permission is granted by the Village Board. (1981 Code § 6-6-47)
9-2-3: RESTRICTIONS ON NEW AND REPLACEMENT CONNECTIONS:
No new water connections to serve a property which was not previously served by
the public water system, and no replacement of a water service pipe will be
permitted from and after November 1, 1979, that is more than one hundred feet
(100') in length, connecting a property to a public water main unless
specifically modified or waived by the Village Board. If existing public water
mains are not within one hundred feet (100') of the property to be served,
then, in that event, the owner desiring a new construction or finding it
necessary to repair or replace the existing water service pipe will be required
to extend the public water main of the Village at the owner's expense in
accordance with the specifications of section
9-2-5 of this chapter and all other provisions of this title. (1981 Code § 6-6-
48)
9-2-4: INSTALLATION OF SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   The connection from the main to the curb stop shall be placed at least
four feet (4') below the level of the ground, and the service pipe shall be
laid sufficiently waving so that it shall be at least one foot (1') longer than
if laid in a straight line and shall be placed in such manner as to prevent
rupture or breakage from settling of the ground. All service pipes shall be of
type K copper tubing or one hundred sixty (160) pound test polyethylene pipe
conforming to ASTM D-2737 CTS and shall be of not less than three-fourths inch
(3/4") nominal diameter. Water services two inches (2") and greater in diameter
shall be Class 51 ductile iron or type K copper as applicable, or two hundred
(200) psi PVC SDR 21 pipe conforming to the water main standards described in
section
9-2-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Polyethylene and copper service connections shall be made with
compression type connections. All polyethylene service pipe shall have
stainless steel inserts at every compression type fitting.
   C.   Service clamps shall be required for all three-fourths inch (3/4") to
two inch (2") diameter services on all PVC main. Service clamps shall be of
high grade cast bronze construction and shall be of the type that will not
crush the PVC pipe out of round. Service clamps shall be Mueller H-13431 for
six inch (6") main and K-13433 for eight inch (8") main or approved equal.
Water services larger than two inches (2") in diameter shall require fittings
conforming to the water main standards described in section
9-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 1989-4.5, 7-10-1989)
   D.   All service pipes and connections shall be inspected and approved by
the Superintendent or other persons under his direction, and no such service
pipes shall be covered until they have been so inspected. (1981 Code § 6-6-61)
9-2-5: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   Extensions Authorized; Responsibility For Costs: Any property owner or
developer desiring to extend the public water mains for the benefit of his
property may do so at his own expense.
   B.   Specifications: Minimum main size shall be six inches (6") in diameter
or larger, where required by the Board of Trustees to serve the future growth
in the vicinity of the extension. All construction shall be in accordance with
the latest edition of the "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois". Pipe to be used shall be Class 150 cast iron, Class
51 ductile iron pipe or two hundred (200) psi PVC pipe conforming to accepted
current standards of ASTM 1784 for schedule 40, 80 and 160 pipe, ASTM 2241
(SDR-DR) and no. 14 of the sanitation foundation (NSF) and be appropriately
marked as specified by the foundation. Minimum acceptable pipe is one having
standard dimension ratio of 21 (SDR-21) and type 1, grade 1 materials with a
hydrostatic design stress of two thousand (2,000) psi for water at twenty three
degrees centigrade (23°C) for a working pressure of two hundred (200) psi.
Joints shall be of the single gasket type, or mechanical.
   C.   Hydrants Required: Fire hydrants shall be provided at all dead ends, at
five hundred feet (500') spacing, at intersections, and at other locations
required by the Board.
   D.   Gate Valves: Gate valves shall be provided at eight hundred feet (800')
maximum spacing, or as required by the Board.
   E.   Location: Such public water main must be extended on a public right-of-
way or public easement which is adjacent to the property to be served, and
unless otherwise provided by the Village Board, shall, in every case, be
extended across the entire property line which fronts on the public right-of-
way or easement. (Ord. 1989-4.5, 7-10-1989)
9-2-6: RESIDENTIAL ANTIDISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN:
The residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan as attached to
the resolution codified herein is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
out at length herein. (Res. 1990-4)
9-2-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Turn On; Wasting Water: No person not duly authorized
shall turn on any service stop, or use water therefrom when so turned on, under
penalty of a fine as determined in section
9-4-13 of this title for each offense, and the person so using or wasting water
in such unlawful manner shall be liable to pay therefor at the regular water
rates without discount. (1981 Code § 6-6-55; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Damage To Seal: No seal placed by the Waterworks and Sewerage
Department for the protection of any meter, valve, fitting or other water
connection shall be defaced or broken except upon written authority from the
Superintendent.
   C.   Unauthorized Use Of Hydrant: No person, other than members of the
Waterworks and Sewerage Department, shall use water from any fire hydrant
connected with the waterworks system of the Village, except for extinguishing
fires or unless especially authorized by the Superintendent. (1981 Code § 6-6-
55)
9-2-8: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS/USERS:
The Village owns and maintains the portion of the service line from the public
water main to the right-of-way line or easement line including the saddle,
corporation stop, curb stop, and curb box. The customer/owner is responsible
for the water line from the right-of-way line or easement line to the house or
structure. The customer is responsible for all the valves and plumbing inside
the structure with the exception of the water meter. The water meter is owned
and maintained by the Village. The customer will be responsible for the cost of
meter repair or replacement should the meter be damaged by freezing or
tampering. A diagram depicting the responsibilities of the parties is depicted
in section
9-7-1 of this title. (Ord. 2018-60, 11-15-2018)
ARTICLE A. BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Definitions
9-2A-2: Potable Water System
9-2A-3: Connection Prohibitions And Restrictions
9-2A-4: Protection Against Backflow And Back Siphonage
9-2A-5: Maintenance Requirements
9-2A-6: Inspections
9-2A-7: Violations; Penalties
9-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
AGENCY: The department of the village government invested with the authority
and responsibility for the enactment and enforcement of this article.
AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between
the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing
fixture, or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
APPROVED: Accepted by the agency as meeting an applicable specification stated
or cited in this article, or suitable for the proposed use.
AUXILIARY SUPPLY: Any water source or system other than the potable water
supply that may be available in the building or premises.
BACK SIPHONAGE: Backflow resulting from negative pressures in the distributing
pipes of a potable water supply.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distributing pipes of a potable supply of water from any source or sources
other than its intended source. Back siphonage is one type of backflow.
BACKFLOW PREVENTER: A device or means to prevent backflow.
CHECK VALVE: A self-closing device which is designed to permit the flow of
fluids in one direction and to close if there is a reversal of flow.
CONTAMINATION: See definition of Pollution.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection between a potable water supply and
any unapproved source or system through which backflow can occur. Furthermore,
cross connection is any potable water supply outlet which is submerged or can
be submerged in wastewater and/or any other source of contamination. See
definitions of Backflow and Back Siphonage.
DRAIN: Any pipe that carries wastewater or waterborne wastes in a building
drainage system.
FIXTURE, PLUMBING: Installed receptacles, devices, or appliances supplied with
water or that receive or discharge liquids or liquidborne wastes.
FLOOD LEVEL RIM: The edge of the receptacle from which water overflows.
HAZARD, HEALTH: Any condition, device, or practice in the water supply system
and its operation which creates, or in the judgment of the director, may
create, a danger to the health and well being of the water consumer. An example
of a health hazard is a structural defect in the water supply system, whether
of location, design, or construction, that regularly or occasionally may
prevent satisfactory treatment of the water supply or cause the supply to be
polluted from extraneous sources.
HAZARD, PLUMBING: Any arrangement of plumbing, including piping and fixtures,
whereby a cross connection is created.
HYDROPNEUMATIC TANK: A pressure vessel in which air pressure acts upon the
surface of the water contained within the vessel, pressurizing the water
distribution piping connected to the vessel.
OUTLET: The open end of the water supply pipe through which the water is
discharged into the plumbing fixture.
PLUMBING SYSTEM: Includes the water supply and distribution pipes, plumbing
fixtures and traps; soil, waste, and vent pipes; building drains and building
sewers, including their respective connections, devices, and appurtenances
within the property lines of the premises; and water treating or water using
equipment.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER: An assembly of differential
valves and check valves, including an automatically opened spillage port to the
atmosphere, designed to prevent backflow.
SURGE TANK: The receiving, nonpressure vessel forming part of the air gap
separation between a potable and an auxiliary supply.
VACUUM: Any pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
VACUUM BREAKER, NONPRESSURE TYPE: A vacuum breaker designed so as not to be
subjected to static line pressure.
VACUUM BREAKER, PRESSURE TYPE: A vacuum breaker designed to operate under
conditions of static line pressure.
WATER, NONPOTABLE: Water that is not safe for human consumption or that is of
questionable potability.
WATER, POTABLE: Water free from contaminants in amounts sufficient to cause
disease or harmful physiological effects. Its bacteriological and chemical
quality shall conform to the requirements of the federal and state drinking
water regulations and to any regulations of the public health authority having
local jurisdiction. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1988)
9-2A-2: POTABLE WATER SYSTEM:
A potable water supply system shall be designed, installed and maintained in
such manner as to prevent contamination from nonpotable liquids, solids, or
gases from being introduced into the potable water supply through cross
connections or any other piping connections to the system. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-
1988)
9-2A-3: CONNECTION PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Cross Connections Prohibited: Cross connections between potable water
systems and other systems or equipment containing water or other substances of
unknown or questionable quality are prohibited except when and where, as
approved by the authority having jurisdiction, suitable protective devices such
as the reduced pressure zone backflow preventer or equal are installed, tested,
and maintained to ensure proper operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   Interconnections: Interconnections between two (2) or more public water
supplies shall be permitted only with the approval of the state authority
having jurisdiction.
   C.   Individual Water Supplies: Cross connections between an individual
water supply and a potable public supply shall not be made unless specifically
approved by the state authority having jurisdiction.
   D.   Connections To Boilers: Potable water connections to boilers shall be
made through an air gap or provided with an approved backflow preventer.
   E.   Connections To Fixtures And Equipment: Connection to the potable water
supply system is prohibited unless protected against backflow in accordance
with section
9-2A-4 of this article or as set out herein. Examples of fixtures and equipment
from which the potable water supply system must be protected include:
      1.   Bidets.
      2.   Operating, dissection, embalming, and mortuary tables or similar
equipment. In such installation, the hose used for water supply shall terminate
at least twelve inches (12") away from every point of the table or attachments.
      3.   Pumps for nonpotable water, chemicals, or other substances. Priming
connections may be made only through an air gap.
      4.   Building drainage, sewer, or vent systems.
   F.   Refrigerating Unit Condensers And Cooling Jackets: Except where potable
water provided for a refrigerator condenser or cooling jacket is entirely
outside the piping or tank containing a toxic refrigerant, the inlet connection
shall be provided with an approved check valve. Also adjacent to and at the
outlet side to the check valve, an approved pressure relief valve set to
relieve at five (5) psi above the maximum water pressure at the point of
installation shall be provided if the refrigeration units contain more than
twenty (20) pounds of refrigerants. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1988)
9-2A-4: PROTECTION AGAINST BACKFLOW AND BACK SIPHONAGE:
   A.   Water Outlets: A potable water system shall be protected against
backflow and back siphonage by providing and maintaining at each outlet:
      1.   Air Gap: An air gap, as specified in subsection B of this section,
between the potable water outlet and the flood level rim of the fixture it
supplies or between the outlet and any other source of contamination; or
      2.   Backflow Preventer: An approved device or means to prevent backflow.
   B.   Minimum Required Air Gap:
      1.   How Measured: The minimum required air gap shall be measured
vertically from the lowest end of a potable water outlet to the flood rim or
line of the fixture or receptacle into which it discharges.
      2.   Size: The minimum required air gap shall be twice the effective
opening of the potable water outlet unless the outlet is a distance less than
three (3) times the effective opening away from a wall or similar vertical
surface, in which cases, the minimum required air gap shall be three (3) times
the effective opening of the outlet. In no case shall the minimum required air
gap be less than shown in the following table:
   MINIMUM AIR GAPS FOR GENERALLY USED PLUMBING FIXTURES
 
                           Minimum Air Gap
   Fixture              When Not Affected By Near When Affected By Near
                           Wall1 (Inches)            Wall2 (Inches)
Lavatories and other
fixtures with effective    1.0                       1.50
openings not greater than
1/2 inch diameter
Sink, laundry trays,
gooseneck bath faucets and
other fixtures with        1.5                       2.25
effective openings not
greater than 3/4 inch
diameter
Over rim bath fillers and
other fixtures with
effective openings not     2.0                       3.0
greater than 1 inch
diameter
Drinking water fountains -
single orifice 7/16
(0.437) inch diameter or
multiple orifices having   1.0                       1.50
total area of 0.150 square
inch (area of circle 7/16
inch diameter)
Effective openings greater 3                         4
than 1 inch
 
Notes:
      1.    Side walls, ribs, or similar obstructions do not affect air gaps
when spaced from inside edge of spout opening a distance greater than 3 times
the diameter of the effective opening for a single wall, or a distance greater
than 4 times the diameter of the effective opening for 2 intersecting walls.
      2.    Vertical walls, ribs, or similar obstructions extending from the
water surface to or above the horizontal plane of the spout opening require a
greater air gap when spaced closer to the nearest inside edge of spout opening
than specified in note 1 of this table. The effect of 3 or more such vertical
walls or ribs has not been determined. In such cases, the air gap shall be
measured from the top of the wall.
      3.    2 times diameter of effective opening.
      4.    3 times diameter of effective opening.
   C.   Approval Of Devices:
      1.   Before any device for the prevention of backflow or back siphonage
is installed, it shall have first been certified by a recognized testing
laboratory acceptable to the agency director. Devices installed in a building
potable water supply distribution system for protection against backflow shall
be maintained in good working condition by the person responsible for the
maintenance of the system.
      2.   The agency director or his designee shall routinely inspect such
devices, and if they are found to be defective or inoperative, shall require
the replacement thereof.
   D.   Installation Of Devices:
      1.   Nonpressure Type Vacuum Breakers: Atmospheric vacuum breakers shall
be installed with the critical level at least six inches (6") above the flood
level rim of the fixture they serve and on the discharge side of the last
control valve to the fixture. No shutoff valve or faucet shall be installed
beyond the vacuum breaker. For closed equipment or vessels such as pressure
sterilizers, the top of the vessel shall be treated as the flood level rim, but
a check valve shall be installed on the discharge side of the vacuum breaker.
      2.   Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Preventer: A reduced pressure
principle type backflow preventer may be installed subject to full static
pressure.
      3.   Devices Of All Types: Backflow and back siphonage preventing devices
shall be accessibly located, preferably in the same room with the fixture they
serve. Installation in utility or service spaces, provided they are readily
accessible, is also permitted.
   E.   Tanks And Vats; Below Rim Supply:
      1.   Where a potable water outlet terminates below the rim of a tank or
vat and the tank or vat has an overflow of diameter not less than that given in
the following table, the overflow pipe shall be provided with an air gap as
close to the tank as possible. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1988)
   SIZES OF OVERFLOW PIPES FOR WATER SUPPLY TANKS
Maximum Capacity Of Water Supply Line To Diameter Of Overflow Pipe (Inches ID)
Tank (gpm)
Maximum Capacity Of Water Supply Line To Diameter Of Overflow Pipe (Inches ID)
Tank (gpm)
0 - 50                                   2
50 - 100                                 21/2
100 - 200                                3
200 - 400                                4
400 - 700                                5
700 - 1,000                              6
Over 1,000                               8
 
(Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1988; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   The potable water outlet to the tank or vat shall terminate a
distance not less than one and one-half (11/2) times the height to which water
can rise in the tank above the top of the overflow. This level shall be
established at the maximum flow rate of the supply to the tank or vat and with
all outlets except the air gap overflow outlet closed. The distance from the
outlet to the high water level shall be measured from the critical point of the
potable water supply outlet. The following figure illustrates this principle:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1634.gif]
Properly protected tank with below rim supply
   F.   Protective Devices:
      1.   Devices Required: Approved devices to protect against backflow and
back siphonage shall be installed at all fixtures and equipment where backflow
and/or back siphonage may occur and where minimum air gap cannot be provided
between the water outlet to the fixture or equipment and its flood level rim.
      2.   Connections Not Subject To Back Pressure: Where a water connection
is not subject to back pressure, a vacuum breaker shall be installed on the
discharge side of the last valve on the line serving the fixture or equipment.
A list of some conditions requiring protective devices of this kind is given in
the following table:
   CROSS CONNECTIONS WHERE PROTECTIVE DEVICES ARE
   REQUIRED AND CRITICAL LEVEL (C-L) SETTINGS FOR VACUUM BREAKERS1
Fixture Or Equipment Method Of Installation
Fixture Or Equipment                    Method Of Installation
Aspirators and ejectors                 C-L at least 6 inches above flood level
                                        of receptacle served
                                        On models without built in vacuum
Dental units                            breakers - C-L at least 6 inches above
                                        flood level rim of bowl
                                        C-L at least 6 inches above flood level
Dishwashing machines                    of machine. Install on both hot and
                                        cold water supply lines
                                        Equip with approved ball cock. Where
                                        ball cocks touch tank water, equip with
                                        vacuum breaker at least 1 inch above
Flush tanks                             overflow outlets. Where ball cock does
                                        not touch tank water, install ball cock
                                        outlet at least 1 inch above overflow
                                        outlet or provide vacuum breaker as
                                        specified above
Flushometers (closet and urinal)        C-L at least 6 inches above top of
                                        fixture supplied
                                        C-L at least 6 inches above flood level
Garbage can cleaning machine            of machine. Install on both hot and
                                        cold water supply lines
Hose bibs (where aspirators or ejectors C-L at least 6 inches above flood level
could be connected)                     of receptacle served
Hose outlets                            C-L at least 6 inches above highest
                                        point on hose line
                                        C-L at least 6 inches above flood level
Laundry machines                        of machine. Install on both hot and
                                        cold water supply lines
Lawn sprinklers                         C-L at least 12 inches above highest
                                        sprinkler or discharge outlet
Steam tables                            C-L at least 6 inches above flood level
Tanks and vats                          C-L at least 6 inches above flood level
                                        rim or line
Trough urinals                          C-L at least 30 inches above perforated
                                        flush pipe
 
Note:
      1.    "Critical level (C-L)" is defined as the level to which the vacuum
breaker may be submerged before backflow will occur. Where the C-L is not shown
on the preventer, the bottom of the device shall be taken as the C-L.
      3.   Connections Subject To Back Pressure: Where a potable water
connection is made to a line, fixture, tank, vat, pump, or other equipment with
a hazard of backflow or back siphonage where the water connection is subject to
back pressure and an air gap cannot be installed, the public works
superintendent will require adequate protection which may include the use of an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventer. A partial list of such
connections is shown in the following table:
   PARTIAL LIST OF CROSS CONNECTORS WHICH MAY BE SUBJECT TO BACK PRESSURE
Chemical lines
Dock water outlets
Hose bibs
Individual water supplies
Industrial process water lines
Pressure tanks
Pumps
Steam lines
Swimming pools
Tanks and vats - bottom inlets
 
   G.   Low Pressure Cutoff Required On Booster Pumps: When a booster pump is
used on a water pressure booster system and the possibility exists that a
positive pressure of less than twenty (20) psi may occur on the suction side of
the pump, there shall be installed a low pressure cutoff on the booster pump to
prevent the creation of a vacuum or negative pressure on the suction side of
the pump, thus cutting off water to other outlets. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1988)
9-2A-5: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Responsibility Of Owner: It shall be the responsibility of building and
premises owners to maintain all backflow preventers and vacuum breakers within
the building or on the premises in good working order and to make no piping or
other arrangements for the purpose of bypassing backflow devices.
   B.   Backflow Preventers: Periodic testing and inspection schedules shall be
established by the public works superintendent, and approved by the board of
trustees, for all backflow preventers, and overhauls of each device shall be
established in accordance with the age and condition of the device. Inspection
intervals shall not exceed one year, and overhaul intervals shall not exceed
five (5) years. These devices should be inspected frequently after the initial
installation to assure that they have been installed properly and that debris
resulting from the installation has not interfered with the functioning of the
device. The testing procedures shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions when approved by the public works superintendent. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-
7-1988)
9-2A-6: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Periodic Inspections; Notice Of Violation: The public works
superintendent, or his designated agent, shall inspect the plumbing in every
building or premises in the village as frequently as the board of trustees, in
its judgment, may, from time to time, deem necessary to ensure that such
plumbing has been installed in such a manner as to prevent the possibility of
pollution of the water supply of the village by the plumbing. The public works
superintendent shall notify or cause to be notified in writing the owner or
authorized agent of the owner of any such building or premises, to correct,
within a reasonable time set by the board of trustees, any plumbing installed
or existing contrary to or in violation of this article, and which, in his
judgment, may, therefore, permit the pollution of the village water supply or
otherwise adversely affect the public health.
   B.   Entry Powers: The public works superintendent, or his designated agent,
shall have the right of entry into any building, during reasonable hours, for
the purpose of making inspection of the plumbing systems installed in such
building or premises; provided, that with respect to the inspection of any
single-family dwelling, consent to such inspection shall first be obtained from
a person of suitable age and discretion therein or in control hereof.
Consistent refusal to allow inspection of a specific dwelling may be cause for
requiring installation of suitable backflow protection or discontinuation of
potable water service. (Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1988)
9-2A-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Corrections Required: The public works
superintendent shall notify the owner, or authorized agent of the owner, of the
building or premises in which there is found a violation of this article, of
such violation. The public works superintendent shall also notify the owner as
to a specific date set by the board of trustees on or before which the
violation shall be removed or corrected, which time period shall be a
reasonable time after notice of the violation. Upon failure of the owner to
have the defect corrected by the end of the specified time interval, the board
of trustees may, if in its judgment an imminent health hazard exists, cause the
water service to the building or premises to be terminated and/or recommend
such additional fines or penalties to be invoked as herein may be provided.
(Ord. 1988-1, 1-7-1988)
   B.   Penalty: The owner or authorized agent of the owner responsible for the
maintenance of the plumbing systems in the building who knowingly permits a
violation to remain uncorrected after the expiration of time set by the board
of trustees shall, upon conviction thereof by the court, be required to pay a
fine as provided in section
9-1-8 of this title for each violation. Each day of failure to comply with the
requirements of this article, after the specified time provided under
subsection A of this section, shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord.
1988-1, 1-7-1988; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-3-2: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
9-3-3: Building Sewers And Connections
9-3-4: Extension Of Public Sewers
9-3-5: Discharges Into System
9-3-6: Interceptors
9-3-7: Pretreatment; Flow Equalization
9-3-8: Control Manhole
9-3-9: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
9-3-10: Special Agreements
9-3-11: Responsibilities Of Owners/Users
9-3-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: No person shall place, deposit,
or permit to be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private
property within the Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
Village, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(1981 Code § 6-3-11)
   B.   Discharges Into Natural Outlets: No person shall discharge to any
natural outlet within the Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
Village, or into any storm sewer any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters. (1981 Code § 6-3-12)
   C.   Private Systems Prohibited: No person having his residence or place of
business within the territorial limits of the Village waterworks and sewerage
system shall be permitted to dispose of sewage of such residence or place of
business located in the Village otherwise than through the sewer mains of the
Village. (1981 Code § 6-3-13)
   D.   Connection To Public System Required: All inhabitants of the Village
will, at their own expense, make, or cause to be made, connections to the
public sewer system within one year after the same is completed and is made
available for use to the particular property concerned, or within such
additional period as the Village Board of Trustees shall determine. All users
shall discontinue within the same period of time any connection which they
heretofore may have had with any other private line, privy, privy vault, septic
tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1981 Code § 6-3-14)
9-3-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
No septic tanks or other similar private sewage disposal system shall be used
from and after the period set forth in subsection
9-3-1D of this chapter except in cases where connections to the same are not
possible or feasible as determined by the Village Board. When such public sewer
main becomes available, as herein provided, any such septic tank, outhouse,
privy, privy vault, cesspool or other private sewage disposal system
theretofore used, shall be discontinued, and a direct connection shall be made
to the Municipal sewerage system in compliance with this chapter, and no septic
tanks or similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be permitted to
discharge into any public sewer main, storm sewer or natural outlet. (1981 Code
§§ 6-4-43, 6-4-44)
9-3-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No person shall install or repair any building
sewer without first obtaining a written permit for such work from the Office of
the Superintendent.
      2.   Application For Permit: See title 10, chapter 4 of this Code for
information on utility permit applications and requirements.
      3.   Restrictions On Issuance Of Permit: A building sewer permit will
only be issued and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be
demonstrated that the downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump
stations and wastewater treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity
to adequately and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(Ord. 2009-29, 3-16-2009)
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no building sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer. (1981 Code § 6-4-
33)
   C.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   Size, Slope And Depth: The size and slope of the building sewer
shall be subject to the approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall
the diameter be less than six inches (6"), except four inches (4") cast iron
shall be permitted, provided it is constructed for the full length of the
building sewer. The slope of the pipe shall not be less than one-eighth inch
(1/8") per foot. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings. In all buildings in which any building drain
is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried
by such drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to
the building sewer. (1981 Code § 6-4-31)
      2.   Materials: The building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe ASTM
specification A-74, or vitrified clay sewer pipe ASTM specification C-700
(extra strength), or plastic specification SDR-35 or stronger, with either O-
ring or solvent weld joints. Cast iron pipes shall be required by the
Superintendent where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If
installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer consisting of any of
the above materials shall be laid on a suitable concrete cradle as approved by
the Superintendent. (Ord. 1987-8, 12-3-1987)
      3.   Building Sewer Joints: All joints and connections shall be gastight
and watertight. Cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp
and filled with molten lead not less than one inch (1") deep. Lead shall be run
in one pour and caulked tight. All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall have a
precast joint as hereinafter specified. Precast joints on vitrified clay pipe
shall be approved, factory made, precast joint of flexible vinyl or polyesters
conforming to ASTM specification C425. Joints shall be fitted at the factory
with a ring die cast into the socket of the pipe, and the spigot of the pipe
shall be fitted with a collar of the same material. (1981 Code § 6-4-29)
   D.   Connections To System: All connections to the public sewer shall be
made in accordance with the directions and under the supervision of the
Superintendent. All taps to an existing main, if necessary to be made, shall
require the use of a saddle and such other special fittings as may be required
by the Superintendent. All users of the public sewer system shall have
responsibility for the installation, maintenance and replacement of all pipes,
fittings and appurtenances from the bell of the service tee or wye. (Ord. 2016-
34, 9-1-2016)
   E.   Excavations:
      1.   Open Trench Work; Inspections: All excavations required for the
installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work, unless otherwise
approved by the Superintendent, and no backfill shall be replaced until the
sewer pipes laid therein have been inspected. (1981 Code § 6-4-34)
      2.   Safety And Warnings: All excavations for building sewer installation
shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the
public from hazard.
      3.   Restoration Of Excavated Area: Streets, sidewalks, parkways and
other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in
a satisfactory manner in accordance with the provisions contained in an
ordinance of the Village pertaining to street openings 1 . (1981 Code § 6-4-35)
   F.   Discharge Of Stormwater And Surface Water:
      1.   No person shall make connections of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or a building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to the public sanitary sewer system. (1981 Code § 6-4-
30A)
      2.   Where foundation drains are installed to serve a building, they
shall discharge to a sump which is equipped with a sump pump of proper size and
capacity. The sump pump discharge shall terminate on the ground surface a
minimum distance of ten feet (10') from the building line. The sump pump may be
discharged to a road ditch, storm sewer, or field tile, if such is available to
the property, in a manner approved by the Superintendent. (1981 Code § 6-4-30B)
   G.   Basement Floor Drains: Basement floor drains are required to be
connected to the sanitary sewer unless the same are removed or permanently
plugged in accordance with the directions of the Superintendent. Footing tile
or other drain tile outside the perimeter of the foundation and footings of the
building cannot be connected to the sanitary sewer, and any cross drain or
connection to the floor drains must be permanently severed and disconnected
also in accordance with the directions of the Superintendent. (1981 Code § 6-4-
38)
   H.   Water Pressure Ejectors: Water pressure ejectors or siphons shall not
be installed for the discharging of any sewerage or waste unless adequately
protected against back siphonage. (1981 Code § 6-4-39)
   I.   Defective, Damaged Sewers:
      1.   Whenever a sanitary building sewer or drain thereto is obstructed,
or if found to be broken or defective so that sewage or drainage escapes into
surrounding soil, or into adjacent premises, repair or replacement may be
ordered by the department. Such repairs shall be at the expense of the owner or
person in control of such property. (1981 Code § 6-4-36)
      2.   When a part of the building sewer system is broken into, such break
shall be properly repaired by replacing the broken part with a corresponding
new part. No patching of such break will be accepted. (1981 Code § 6-4-37)
   J.   Inspections:
      1.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent at least twenty four (24) hours before the building sewer is
ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. (1981 Code § 6-4-41)
      2.   All building sewer pipes and connections shall be inspected and
approved by the Superintendent or other persons under his direction, and no
such sewer pipes shall be covered until they have been so inspected. (1981 Code
§ 6-4-40)
   K.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All cost and expense incident to the
installation of the building sewer and connection therewith to the Municipal
sewer system shall be paid by the applicant. (1981 Code § 6-4-42)
   L.   Sanitary Sewer Lateral Connections For Fully Developed Subdivisions: If
a property is not connected to a sanitary sewer main that is readily available
to a private property in a fully developed subdivision that was developed prior
to 1987, and the Village has constructed or accepted the sewer main that would
reasonably service that property but the main does not have a lateral sanitary
sewer service line connection for that property to connect to from the main;
the Village may, in its discretion, provide a lateral sanitary sewer service
line connection at the property line for that property at a point to be
determined by the Village. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-15-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 4 of this Code.
9-3-4: EXTENSION OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Extensions Required: All property owners requesting new sewer service
connections to property in the future must, at their expense, construct a
public sewer according to specifications as set forth in subsection B of this
section. Such sewer pipe must be extended on a public right-of-way or public
easement which is adjacent to the property to be served, and unless otherwise
provided by the Village Board shall, in every case, be extended across the
entire property line which fronts on the public right- of-way or public
easement. (1981 Code § 6-5-45)
   B.   Size And Construction Details: The size of the sewer to be built shall
be determined by the Village Board, but in no case shall it be less than eight
inches (8") in diameter. All extensions to the public sewer shall be made with
vitrified clay pipe conforming to ASTM C-700 extra strength. Joints shall
conform to specifications as set out under subsection
9-3-3C3 of this chapter. Manholes shall be constructed at each change in
direction (horizontal and/or vertical) and not more than four hundred feet
(400') apart on straight sewers. Construction methods shall be in accordance
with the "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois", third edition, adopted by the Village Board and on file in the
Office of the Superintendent. All construction shall be subject to the
inspection by the Superintendent or other designated representatives. (1981
Code § 6-5-46)
9-3-5: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Water Runoff:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1981 Code § 6-4-18)
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged, on approval of the superintendent, to a storm
sewer or natural outlet. (1981 Code § 6-4-19)
   B.   Prohibited Discharges:
      1.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards. (1981 Code § 6-4-
19A)
      2.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         a.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
         c.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
         d.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders. (1981 Code § 6-4-20)
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and
65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the superintendent.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, and
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
         h.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined in section
9-1-1 of this title.
         j.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
         k.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005
milligrams per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the village board
in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
         l.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligram per liter at any time
except as permitted by the village board in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations. (1981 Code § 6-4-21)
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and which, in
the judgment of the superintendent, may have a deleterious effect upon the
sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent
may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of section
9-3-10 of this chapter.
      3.   If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws. (1981 Code § 6-4-
22)
9-3-6: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (1981 Code § 6-4-23)
9-3-7: PRETREATMENT; FLOW EQUALIZATION:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for any
waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his expense. (1981 Code § 6-4-24)
9-3-8: CONTROL MANHOLE:
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense, and
shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (1981
Code § 6-4-25)
9-3-9: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the Village Board or regulatory
agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the Village Board, but no less than once
per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of
the wastewater discharge to assure there is compliance with Federal, State and
local standards. The owner shall report the results of the measurements and
laboratory analyses to the Village Board at such times and in such manner as
prescribed by the Village Board. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the Village Board. At such
times as deemed necessary, the Village Board reserves the right to make
measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service. (1981
Code § 6-4-27A)
   C.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.) (1981 Code § 6-4-26)
9-3-10: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the Village Board and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the Village Board for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with the provisions of section
9-4-5 of this title by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in
accordance with Federal and State guidelines for user charge system and
industrial cost recovery system. (1981 Code § 6-4-27; amd. 2011 Code)
9-3-11: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS/USERS:
The Village owns and maintains the public mains and the tees for service
laterals. The customer is responsible for the sewer lateral piping from the tee
to the residence. The customer is responsible for all drains, vents, cleanouts,
piping and all other sewer related structures inside the house or structure.
Should the customer need to excavate in the public right-of-way to make
repairs, the customer is responsible to properly backfill the trench. The
Village will repair the street and bill the customer for the cost of materials,
or alternatively, the customer may have a contractor make repairs provided the
repair method and materials are approved by the Director of Public Works. (Ord.
2018-60, 11-15-2018)
CHAPTER 4
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Deposit Requirements
9-4-2: Metered Service Required; Access
9-4-3: Water Service Charges
9-4-4: Wastewater (Sewer) User Charges
9-4-5: Industrial Cost Recovery
9-4-6: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
9-4-7: Remedies For Delinquency
9-4-8: Disconnection Of Service By Owner
9-4-9: Disposition Of Revenues
9-4-10: Accounting
9-4-11: Appeals
9-4-12: Access To Records
9-4-13: Fee Schedule
9-4-1: DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Deposit Required: No water and/or sewer service shall be provided to a
new or reconnected user of the system unless and until the following criteria
are met:
      1.   Such user shall deposit the amount set forth in section
9-4-13 of this chapter with the Village Treasurer or his duly authorized
designee;
      2.   Any and all outstanding water account balances of the user have been
made current; and
      3.   For leased or rental properties, no new account can be established
on such property until any and all outstanding balances affiliated with such
property are paid in full.
   B.   Refund Of Deposit: All deposits provided for in subsection A of this
section shall remain with the Village and shall apply to the final bill of the
water service account holder with any remaining deposit monies being returned
to the water service account holder after application of the deposit to the
final bill. In the event that the water service account holder cannot be
located for refund, the Village shall submit the water deposit to the Illinois
Secretary of State's Office of unclaimed property office or I-cash. (Ord. 2016-
34, 9-1-2016)
9-4-2: METERED SERVICE REQUIRED; ACCESS:
   A.   No free service of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the
Village shall be furnished to any user, whether said user is a person, firm,
organization or corporation, public or private. Every user of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the Village shall have a metered water
connection to said system, and every such water meter shall be sealed. It shall
be the duty of the Public Works Superintendent to maintain all meters of said
system in good and accurate working condition, and to replace all meters as he
shall determine have become inaccurate or faulty. Also, he shall report the
master meter reading to the Village Treasurer on the first of each month.
   B.   All newly installed meters from and after July 15, 1981, shall be
readable from outside of the structure by radio telemetry or other such
technology. In the event of signal interference of these reads, the owner shall
allow access to install an exterior antenna for the meter within thirty (30)
days of written notice being provided to the owner.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the occupant and owner of any
premises, after the said thirty (30) day notice, to give access to the premises
by appointment to do the work during the normal working hours of the Public
Works staff so that the replacement meter and outside dial can be installed.
Failure or refusal to give access after reasonable notice may be the basis of
discontinuance of service after a disconnection notice is issued by the Public
Works Superintendent.
   D.   It shall be the responsibility of the occupant and owner of any
premises to prevent abuse and/or neglect to water meters provided by the
Village. This abuse and/or neglect includes, but is not limited to, damage
caused as the result of the freezing of water lines and pipes or any other
weather related act, or physical act, whether intentional or unintentional.
Should damage occur to a water meter provided by the Village, as provided in
this subsection, the occupant and owner shall be liable in the amount as
provided in section
9-4-13 of this chapter.  (Ord., 7-2-1981; amd. Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999; 2011
Code; Ord. 2012-15, 4-19-2012, eff. 5-1-2012; Ord. 2015-32, 7-16-2015; Ord.
2016-34, 9-1-2016; Ord. 2025-21, 4-17-2025)
9-4-3: WATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Water Service Charges: The water service charge for the use
of and for service supplied by the water facilities of the village shall
consist of a monthly user rate, a basic user charge, a debt service charge, and
a capital improvement charge.
      1.   Monthly User Rate: The monthly user rate is levied upon all users to
recover the operation, maintenance, plus replacement (OM&R) costs and shall be
based on water usage as recorded by water meters. The monthly user rate shall
be determined as provided in section
9-4-13 of this chapter and shall increase by two percent (2%) on May 1, 2013,
and each year thereafter unless otherwise amended by the village. The monthly
user rate may be calculated as follows:
         a.   Estimate the annual water volume.
         b.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the water facilities, including a replacement fund for the year, for
all works categories.
         c.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
      2.   Basic User Charge: The basic user charge is levied upon all users of
the water system to assist in the costs for the operation and maintenance of
the water system.
      3.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge may be computed by
apportioning the annual debt service as a fixed charge per billing period per
section
9-4-13 of this chapter.
      4.   Capital Improvement Charge: The capital improvement charge is levied
upon users to provide for capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of
the waterworks. The capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the
annual amount to be accrued as a fixed charge per billing period per section
9-4-13 of this chapter. This capital improvement charge shall be deposited by
the treasurer or his/her designee in a separate and distinct account. One
dollar ($1.00) of this capital improvement charge shall be deposited into an
account to build a fund for future capital improvements and shall only be
utilized by specific authorization of the village board.
   B.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest transmitted
resolution of the metering device, but no lower than the nearest gallon.
      1.   If the person procures any part or all of his water from sources
other than the public waterworks system, the person shall install and maintain,
at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the village board for the
purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of water may be required by the
village board if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered
water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume shall be installed,
owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and installation, such
meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of
the village board.
   C.   Rates And Charges Established:
      1.   Monthly User Rates: There shall be and is there hereby established a
monthly user rate charge for all users of the water system. The rates shall be
as set forth in section
9-4-13  of this chapter and in this title 9. All users shall be charged a
minimum of one thousand (1,000) gallons per billing cycle with all actual usage
after the first one thousand (1,000) gallons used.
      2.   Debt Service Charge: There shall be and is there hereby established
a debt service charge which shall be determined as provided in section
9-4-13  of this chapter and in this title 9.
      3.   Capital Improvement Charge: There shall be and there is hereby
established a capital improvement charge which shall be determined as provided
in section
9-4-13  of this chapter and in this title 9 .
      4.   Garbage Collection Fee: Any property in the village corporate limits
that has an active water service to the property shall be required to pay a fee
for garbage collection as established in chapter 5 of this title 9.
      5.   Any property located outside of the village corporate limits that
has an active water service to the property shall be charged a two (2) times
the normal monthly user rates as provided in section
9-4-13  of this chapter and in this title 9.
   D.   Computation Of Water Service Charge: The water service charge shall be
computed by the following formula:
      CW = CC + CD + CM + (Vu-X)CU
Where:   
CW     = Amount of water service charge ($) per billing period
CC     = Capital improvement charge (subsection C4 of this section)
CD     = Debt service charge (subsection C3 of this section)
CM     = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (subsection
         C1 of this section)
Vu     = Water volume for the billing period
X      = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (subsection C1
         of this section)
CU     = Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
         (subsection C2 of this section)
 
   E.   Bulk Sale Of Water: Bulk water sold to tank wagons loading water at a
location provided by the village shall be charged at the rate determined in
section
9-4-13 of this chapter.
   F.   New Construction: Upon application by any owner or builder in
preparation for new construction through the public works superintendent, a
permit for temporary water use without a meter will be granted for a period not
to exceed sixty (60) days by payment of a fee, in advance, as provided in
section
9-4-13 of this chapter. Such permits shall be limited to the preliminary
construction and installation of the meter and will be required as soon as
building progress permits. Any new construction of multiple dwellings, mobile
home courts and residence dwellings will have individual meters from the
effective date hereof.
   G.   Permit System For Adjusting Water Charges:
      1.   Water meter readings shall be assumed to be accurate and reflect
actual usage by the user except in cases where the user meets the following
criteria in which case a water usage adjustment may be made:
         a.   Application For Water Usage Adjustment: All persons requesting an
adjustment to their water usage must complete and submit a "water usage
adjustment permit" application subject to the following criteria and receive a
permit issued by the village for a water usage adjustment:
            (1)   Information Required: The applicant shall provide the
following information:
               (A)   Name of applicant;
               (B)   Address of applicant;
               (C)   Reason for water usage adjustment;
               (D)   Date/period requested for water usage adjustment;
               (E)   Signature of applicant; and
            (2)   Number Restricted: A person may apply for and receive no more
than one two (2)-consecutive month permits/adjustments in a calendar year;
            (3)   Increase Above Normal Usage: If there is usage of four
thousand (4,000) gallons or more above the average usage of the immediately
preceding twelve (12) months of usage, a user of the water system may apply for
a water usage adjustment as specified in this Section. The applicant must
complete and provide an application as hereinbefore specified. An adjustment
may be afforded for water leaks or unexplained usage, not for purposeful or
expected higher usage.
               (A)   Users of the water system that experience increases above
normal usage may request and cause the Village to test and replace their water
meter. In the event the meter tests as working within the American Water Works
Association (AWWA) specifications or factory specifications, that user shall be
charged for the replacement meter and test on their water bill. In the event
the meter tests not within those specifications, that user shall not be
responsible for or charged for the replacement meter or the test, and shall
have their water usage reduced in the manner set forth in this section
9-4-3(G)(1)(a)(3). Users requesting such a test may request and receive a copy
of the test results.
            (4)   Approval Of Permit: The "water usage adjustment permit"
application must be approved by the a majority vote of the Administration team,
which shall consist of the Director of Public Works, the Village Administrator,
the Office Manager, and the Mayor (or any designee of each position).
            (5)   Rate Adjusted: In the event that the permit is approved, the
village office staff shall adjust the water usage for the period approved. For
the purposes of this subsection G1a(5), an adjustment shall be calculated by
averaging the water usage for the previous twelve (12) months immediately
preceding the requested adjusted month and subtracting the water usage above
that averaged usage (i.e., July through June average usage = 10,000 gallons,
this year's July usage is 30,000 gallons. Water adjusted by subtracting 10,000
gallons from water usage).
   H.   Review Of Charges: The adequacy of the water service charge shall be
reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the
Village, in their annual audit report. The water service charge shall be
revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or OM&R costs.
(Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999; amd. Ord. 2010-22, 6-21-2010; 2011 Code; Ord. 2013-8,
2-21-2013; Ord. 2013-17, 4-25-2013; Ord. 2020-57, 10-15-2020; Ord. 2024-19, 4-
18-2024; Ord. 2025-21, 4-17-2025)
9-4-4: WASTEWATER (SEWER) USER CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater User Charges: The wastewater (sewer) service
charges for the use of the wastewater facilities of the Village shall consist
of a wastewater user rate, a basic user charge and a capital improvement
charge.
      1.   Wastewater User Rate: The wastewater user rate for the use of and
for services supplied by the wastewater facilities of the Village shall consist
of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, and a
surcharge, if applicable. The user rates shall be determined as provided in
section
9-4-13 of this chapter and shall increase by two percent (2%) on May 1, 2013,
and each year thereafter unless otherwise amended by the Village. The user
rates shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters for normal
waste having the following strengths:
         a.   Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD): A five (5) day, twenty degree
centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per
liter (200 mg/L).
         b.   Suspended Solids (SS): A suspended solids (SS) content of two
hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L).
      2.   Water Meter Readings: Water meter readings shall be assumed to equal
sewage flow except in cases where the user may show adequate proof that water
passed through the meter is not returned to the sewer or if the criteria
hereinafter established is met. An adjustment in meter readings will be made in
such cases if the user furnishes the Village meter readings of water flow not
discharged to the sewer.
      3.   Water Meter Readings: Water meter readings shall be assumed to equal
sewage flow except in cases where the user may show adequate proof that water
passed through the meter is not returned to the sewer or if the criteria
hereinafter established is met. An adjustment in meter readings will be made in
such cases if the user furnishes the Village meter readings of water flow not
discharged to the sewer.
         a.   Permit System For Adjusting Sewer Rates For Special Uses:
            (1)   Established: All persons requesting an adjustment to their
sewer charges must complete and submit a "sewer rate adjustment permit"
application and receive a permit issued by the Village for the adjustment.
            (2)   Applicability: A person may be eligible to receive a sewer
rate adjustment if the following circumstances are met:
               (A)   A person may apply for and receive up to two (2) one-month
permits for the following circumstances: laying sod, seeding/reseeding of
grass, filling or refilling of pools or hot tubs, or other similar
circumstances; or
               (B)   A person may, for up to two (2) months only, receive a
permit for an adjustment within a calendar year for an extremely high and
abnormal water bill. For the purposes of this subsection A3a(2)(B), an abnormal
water bill is usage that is at least five thousand (5,000) gallons above the
average monthly usage. The average monthly usage for the purposes of this
subsection A3a(2)(B) is the average of water usage over the preceding twelve
(12) months.
               (C)     A person may apply for a sewer rate adjustment for any
other reason not specifically set forth herein and such a request will be
reviewed by the appropriate standing committee of the Village, and if such
makes a recommendation for approval of such an adjustment , such recommendation
will be submitted to Village Board for consideration of approval. If the
Village Board approves such a recommendation, the Water Department will adjust
the usage as hereinafter set forth.
            (3)   Application For Permit: Under the "sewer rate adjustment
permit", a citizen of the Village shall fill out an application to have his
sewer rate adjusted. Said application shall, at a minimum, include the
following information:
               (A)   Name of applicant.
               (B)   Address of applicant.
               (C)   Reason for sewer adjustment rate.
               (D)   Date/period requested for sewer adjustment rate.
               (E)   Signature of applicant.
            (4)   Approval Of Permit: The Mayor or Mayor designee shall review
each permit application. If the above criteria are met, the Mayor or Mayor
designee shall approve and issue the permit and notify the office staff of said
approval.
            (5)   Rate Adjusted: In the event that the permit is approved, the
Village office staff shall adjust the sewer rate for the one month period
approved. For the purposes of this subsection A3a(5), an adjustment shall be
calculated by averaging the water usage for the previous twelve (12) months
immediately preceding the requested adjusted month and subtracting the sewer
usage above that averaged usage (i.e., July through June average usage = 10,000
gallons, this year's July usage is 20,000 gallons. Sewer adjusted by
subtracting 10,000 gallons from sewer usage).
      4.   User Rate: The user rate shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year.
         b.   Estimate wastewater volume discharged to the sewer system based
on total water meter readings after appropriate adjustment for water not
returned to the sewer and/or water from unmetered private sources which is
discharged to the sewer system.
         c.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength wastes.
      5.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters
exceed the normal concentrations for BOD (200 mg/L) and SS (250 mg/L). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or
sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the two hundred milligrams per liter
(200 mg/L) and two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/L) concentration
for BOD and SS, respectively. The adequacy of the wastewater service charge
shall be reviewed annually by certified public accountants for the Village in
their annual audit report. The wastewater user charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in operation and maintenance costs, including
replacement costs, and adjusted as required. One of the purposes of the annual
review shall be to maintain service charges in relation to cost and assure that
all use classes are being charged an equitable share.
   B.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing user rates
and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments reported by the water meter.
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his water from sources other than the Village water system, all
or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the
Superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from
these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged to the sanitary
sewer may be required by the Village Board if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
      3.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste not discharged to the
sanitary sewer may be required by the Village Board if reasonable estimates
cannot be made for adjusting water meter readings.
      4.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the Village Board.
   C.   Rates And Charges Established:
      1.   Monthly User Rates: There shall be and is there hereby established a
monthly user rate charge for all users of the wastewater system. The rates
shall be as set forth in section
9-4-13  of this chapter and in this title 9. All users shall be charged a
minimum of 1,000 gallons per billing cycle with all actual usage after the
first 1,000 gallons used.
      2.   Surcharge Rate: For waste strengths above normal strength of two
hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L) BOD and two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/L) SS, a surcharge shall be applied as provided in section
9-4-13  of this chapter. The surcharge for each bimonthly period shall be
computed by the following formula:
         SCBOD = (x-200) x A x 0.0000083 x $0.05
         SCSS = (y-250) x A x 0.0000083 x $0.02
 
Where:
SCBOD = Surcharge above the basic user rate for BOD concentration above 200 mg/
        L
SCSS  = Surcharge above the basic user rate for SS concentration above 250 mg/L
x     = Average BOD concentration in mg/L
y     = Average SS concentration in mg/L
A     = Bimonthly metered water flow adjusted for appropriate losses in gallons
 
      3.   Capital Improvement Charge: There shall be and there is hereby
established a capital improvement charge for wastewater which shall be
determined as provided in section 9-4-13 of this chapter. All persons within
the corporate limits of the Village having water service provided by the
Village shall be charged this wastewater capital improvement charge. This
capital improvement charge shall be deposited by the Treasurer or his/her
designee in a separate and distinct account.
   D.   Computation Of Rates And Charges:
      1.   Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges
shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as
often as may be deemed necessary by the Village Board and shall be binding as a
basis for surcharges.
      2.   Total Wastewater User Charge: The wastewater user charge shall be
computed by the following formula:
         CW = MC + BC + SCBOD + SCSS
 
Where:
CW    = Total wastewater user charge
MC    = Minimum charge as set out in subsection C1 of this section
BC    = Basic user charge as set out in subsection C1 of this section
SCBOD = Surcharge for BOD as computed in subsection C3 of this section
SCSS  = Surcharge for SS as computed in subsection C3 of this section
 
(Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999; amd. Ord. 2017-15, 4-6-2017; Ord. 2023-50, 11-2-2023;
Ord. 2025-21, 4-17-2025)
9-4-5: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
   A.   Industrial Cost Recovery Required:
      1.   Each industrial user shall pay that portion of any State grant which
has been obtained by the Village for the financing of the construction of
wastewater treatment works allocable to the treatment of the wastewater from
such user. Such user's share shall not include an interest component.
      2.   Each year during the industrial cost recovery period, each
industrial user of the treatment works shall pay the cost recovery amount
determined by subsection B or C of this section for such industry, divided by
the recovery period. Where an industry is connected to a public sewer after the
startup of the facilities constructed under a State grant, such industry shall
only pay its portion of the State grant for each billing period remaining in
the recovery period. Such industry will not be required to pay for those
billing periods of the recovery period prior to connection to a public sewer.
   B.   Industrial Cost Recovery Charge: The charge for industrial cost
recovery shall be based on a charge per unit volume of normal strength process
flow. Normal strength flow shall be waste strength less than or equal to two
hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/L) BOD and two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/L) SS. The industrial cost recovery charge will be computed
as follows:
      1.   Estimate the State grant amount allocable to those treatment units
used to process dry weather sewage flow (which includes industrial waste
flows).
      2.   Divide the allocable State grant amount by the industrial cost
recovery period.
      3.   Determine the average annual design flow volume by multiplying the
daily design flow average of four hundred thousand (400,000) gallons per day by
three hundred sixty five (365) days per year. (The result is 146,000,000
gallons per year.)
      4.   Divide the annual allocable grant amount determined in subsection B2
of this section by the average annual design flow volume of one hundred forty
six million (146,000,000) gallons. (Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999)
      5.   The resulting charge as provided in section
9-4-13 of this chapter will be charged all industrial users having a process
waste flow.
   C.   Total Charge To Industrial User:
      1.   The total industrial cost recovery charge for each billing period
shall be determined by multiplying a user's industrial process flow volume
discharged during the billing period by the amount provided in section
9-4-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   Industrial process flow volume shall be determined by measurement or
estimation of all water flow through industrial plant processes. In the absence
of meter readings, process flow shall be estimated by using the following
formula:
         PF = TWF - DF - CF
 
Where:
PF  = Process flow for billing period
TWF = Total water flow for billing period from meter reading, plus estimates of
      flow from private wells, if any
      Domestic flow from employees estimated by multiplying the average number
DF  = of man shifts worked for the billing period by an allowance of 25 gallons
      per man shift worked
CF  = Flow consumed or otherwise not returned to the sewer
 
      3.   If, in the opinion of the Village Clerk, the Village interest would
be served by making the above estimation on an annual basis, then the Clerk may
elect to negotiate with each industry a percentage of the total water flow to
estimate the process flow each billing period.
   D.   Length Of Industrial Cost Recovery Period: The industrial cost recovery
period shall be equal to the useful life of the treatment works which shall be
thirty (30) years from 1979.
   E.   Payments And Billing: Industrial cost recovery charges to industrial
users shall be included with the regular billing for sewer use charges as
specified in this chapter.
   F.   Adjustment Of Charge:
      1.   If, at any time, during the industrial cost recovery period, an
industry begins discharging wastes with strengths greater than two hundred
milligrams per liter (200 mg/L) BOD and two hundred fifty milligrams per liter
(250 mg/L) SS, a study shall be made under the direction of the Village Board
to revise the industrial cost recovery charge to include a high waste strength
surcharge as well as a process flow volume charge. The revised charge factors
shall be applied to process flow volume and measured waste strength quantities
in excess of normal.
      2.   If there is an expansion or upgrading of the treatment works
utilizing a State grant, each existing industrial user's share shall be
adjusted accordingly.
   G.   No Charge For Unused Or Unreserved Capacity: An industrial user's
portion of any State grant shall not include any portion of the grant amount
allocable to unused or reserved capacity.
   H.   Commitment For Increased Use: An industrial user's portion of any State
grant shall include allowance for the cost of any firm commitment to the
Village for any increased use by such user.
   I.   Retained Amounts:
      1.   Disposition: Eighty percent (80%) of the retained amounts, together
with interest earned thereon, shall be used solely for the eligible costs of
the expansion or reconstruction of treatment works associated with the project
and necessary to meet the requirements of the Federal Act and the State. The
Village, prior to commitment of the retained amounts, shall obtain written
approval of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for any expansion or
reconstruction. The remainder of the retained amount may be used for such
expenditures as the Village deems appropriate.
      2.   Investment: Pending use, the grantee shall invest the retained
amounts for reconstruction and expansion in:
         a.   Obligations of the U.S. government;
         b.   Obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S.
government or any agency thereof; or
         c.   Shall deposit such amounts in accounts fully collateralized by
obligations of the U.S. government or by obligation fully guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the U.S. government or any agency thereof.
   J.   Records, Billing, Expenditures: The Village Treasurer shall maintain
the necessary records for determination of user share of the cost and shall
provide the billing and collection services as required, and be responsible for
the investment and expenditure of all monies collected for industrial cost
recovery in accordance with subsections H and I of this section.
   K.   Monitoring Required: The Superintendent of Public Works shall maintain
a program of monitoring industrial user discharges as the Village Board deems
necessary; provided, that any major contributing industry shall be monitored no
less than twelve (12) times annually. (Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999)
9-4-6: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Monthly Bills; Liability For Service: Water service charges, sewer user
charges, and industrial cost recovery charges for service shall be payable
monthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable therefor to the Village. For
purposes of this subsection, an owner includes, but is not limited to, the
owner of the parcel or parcels of a mobile home or trailer park and the owner
of the parcel or parcels of a multi-unit dwelling or apartment complex. (Ord.
2012-10, 3-15-2012)
   B.   Defective Meters: If any water meter at any time fails to register the
quantity of water running through it, the quantity shall be determined and the
charge made based on the amount registered during the billing period preceding
the date of such failure or the usage for the same billing period of the
preceding year, whichever is greater.
   C.   Rendition Of Bills: Bills for water and sewer service shall be sent out
by the Village on the first day of the billing period succeeding the period for
which the service is billed. (Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999)
   D.   Due Date; Late Payment Penalty: All bills, except final bills are due
and payable on or by fifteen (15) days after rendition of bill of each month of
the same billing period. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added to all
bills, including all previous past due amounts, except governmental bodies, not
paid on or by fifteen (15) days after rendition of the bill each month. When
the fifteenth day from rendition of any month is on a Sunday or a legal
holiday, then such bills shall be payable on the next secular day without any
additional penalty. If a payment arrangement is entered into pursuant to
subsection G of this section, no further penalties shall be applied during the
payment arrangement period. (Ord. 2018-60, 11-15-2018)
   E.   Final Bills: All final bills, or bills that are intended to be the last
bill an occupant and/or owner has for a particular property, are due and
payable on or within fifteen (15) days after rendition of the final bill. Final
bills shall be rendered either to the last known address provided in writing to
the Village Water Department or directly to the owner/occupant. A penalty of
ten percent (10%) shall be added to all final bills, except governmental
bodies, not paid on or by the fifteenth of each month thereafter. When the
fifteenth day of any month is on a Sunday or a legal holiday, then such bills
shall be payable on the next secular day without any additional penalty. (Ord.
2012-27, 7-19-2012)
   F.   Delinquent Bills:
      1.   If the charges for services are not paid within thirty (30) days
after rendition of the bill for such service, such charges shall be deemed and
are hereby declared to be delinquent.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the Budget Officer to supply the appropriate
Public Works Supervisor with a list of all delinquencies immediately following
the thirty (30) day period. At that time, the Public Works Supervisor shall be
responsible to see that notices are immediately sent to the delinquent users
and to the owner(s) of the property, notifying them that the services will be
cut off on the tenth day of the month following delinquency or forty (40) days
after rendition of the bill for the water and sewerage service unless payment
of the delinquent account is made or a payment arrangement is made in writing
with the Mayor or Mayor designee. If the delinquent amount is not paid or a
payment arrangement is not made within said notice period, the appropriate
Public Works Supervisor will cause an additional disconnection or shut-off
notice in such manner as deemed appropriate by such supervisor that the service
shall be disconnected at the time specified by such notice. A charge as set
forth in section 9-4-13 of this chapter shall be charged for the shut-off
notice. Thereafter, if settlement of the delinquent account is not made by the
time specified in the shut-off notice, the service shall be disconnected. Upon
the disconnecting of any service, a charge as set forth in section 9-4-13 of
this chapter shall be made for reconnecting the same, after settlement of the
current as well as the delinquent account. If an account does not have a shut-
off/disconnect or reconnect for eighteen (18) consecutive months since the last
disconnection or reconnection, the tiered subsequent disconnect or reconnect
fees set forth in section 9-4-13 shall reset and not apply. (Ord. 2017-15, 4-6-
2017)
   G.   Payment Arrangements: If the charges for services are declared
delinquent, the Mayor or his designee may allow a user of services to enter
into a payment arrangement, in writing, by which the account holder will be
required to pay no less than twenty dollars ($20.00) per month to pay down a
delinquent account. The payment arrangement shall only be entered into for the
delinquent amount owed and the current bill, but in no case shall a payment
arrangement amount exceed two (2) months of billing and it shall not be applied
to any future service amounts owing or accruing. A payment arrangement shall
not be allowed on any account that owes in excess of five hundred dollars
($500.00). If an account of a rental or leased property becomes delinquent and
if the account holder is not the owner of the property, the Superintendent
shall notify the owner of the property of the delinquency. The owner of the
property shall then either authorize, in writing, that the water service to the
property be disconnected or authorize that the account holder may enter into a
payment arrangement. If a payment arrangement is entered into, penalties shall
not be applied to the payment arrangement amount. If a party defaults under a
payment arrangement, then all other remedies, including penalties, shall apply.
(Ord. 2018-60, 11-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-56, 9-16-2025)
9-4-7: REMEDIES FOR DELINQUENCY:
If payment is not received by the first day of the next billing cycle, the
Village may proceed in any of the three (3) following manners, either
individually or in combination thereof: (Ord. 2008-04, 2-4-2008)
   A.   Lien Provisions: Notice of such delinquencies shall constitute liens
upon the real estate for which such service is supplied, and the Village Clerk
is hereby authorized and directed to file sworn detailed statements showing
such delinquencies in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds, and the
filing of such statements shall be deemed notice of the lien for payment of the
service rendered. This statement shall contain the legal description of the
premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, the date when such amount
became delinquent, and a notice that the Village claims a lien for this amount
as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill. In the
event the charges for such services become delinquent, the Village Clerk,
Village Collector or a duly authorized designee of either is hereby authorized
and directed to cause notification to be given in writing to the owner of the
premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the service that such
delinquency exists and that services shall be discontinued without further
notice. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-4-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as in the case of the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the Village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the Village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid thirty (30) days after it has been rendered.
   C.   Civil Action: At the election of the Superintendent of Public Works or
the Village Board of Trustees, the Village may file civil action in the court
of appropriate jurisdiction to recover any amounts due for services rendered
for the waterworks and/or sewerage systems, plus costs of suit and reasonable
attorney fees deriving from said action being brought. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-4-2008)
9-4-8: DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE BY OWNER:
   A.   The owner or owners of any real estate may at any time, whether a water
bill is current or delinquent, notify the Village, in writing, requesting to
have the water service to the premises disconnected. When disconnection occurs,
the owner or owners shall be required to pay the reconnection fee as determined
by section
9-4-13 of this chapter. Upon receipt of such request, the Superintendent,
within five (5) business days thereafter, shall cause the water service to be
disconnected. (Ord. 2009-05, 2-2-2009)
   B.   If a water account of a rental or leased property becomes delinquent
and if the account holder is not the owner of the property, the Water Office
staff shall notify the owner of the property of the delinquency. The owner of
the property shall then either authorize, in writing, that the water service to
the property be disconnected or authorize that the account holder may enter
into a payment arrangement. This subsection shall not be construed to allow the
owner of any property to procure the disconnection of water service on said
property against the will of any occupants thereof if the account is not
delinquent. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-15-2012)
9-4-9: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the waterworks
and sewerage system shall be deposited in the waterworks and sewerage account.
It shall be the duty of the Budget Officer to render bills for service and all
other charges in connection therewith and to collect all monies due thereon.
The Budget Officer shall be covered to the maximum amount on hand at any time
by an approved corporate surety bond. All such revenues and monies shall be
held by the Budget Officer separate and apart from his private funds and
separate and apart from all other funds of the Village, and all of said sum,
without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the Budget Officer not
more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may, from time to time, be directed by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees.
   B.   The Budget Officer shall receive all such revenues from the system and
all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system as the same
may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the fund
designated as the Waterworks and Sewerage Fund for the Village. The Budget
Officer shall administer such fund in every respect according to the manner
provided by statute of the "Revised Cities and Villages Act", effective January
1942. (Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999; amd. 2011 Code)
9-4-10: ACCOUNTING:
   A.   The Village Treasurer or his duly authorized designee or the Village
Administrator shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep proper
books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be
made of all transactions relative to the combined waterworks and sewerage
system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit by
a certified public accountant of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the combined waterworks and sewerage system as well as other
necessary information.
   B.   Separate accounts shall be kept for water and sewerage portions of the
system. Furthermore, it shall be the duty of the Village Treasurer or his duly
authorized designee or the Village Administrator to file with the Mayor and
Board of Trustees a quarterly report which shall include for the month: (Ord.
2009-05, 2-2-2009)
      1.   A list of the turnoff notices which he provided the Superintendent;
      2.   A list of the current month delinquencies;
      3.   The number of bills mailed;
      4.   The number of gallons billed or sold;
      5.   The number of gallons pumped into the system;
      6.   A list of the various revenues of the system for the month and total
year to date along with the expenses for the month and year to date; and
      7.   The cash balances and investments on hand in each of the several
funds of the waterworks and sewerage system.
   C.   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the waterworks
facilities and wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate
that the sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital
amounts required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do
in fact meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be
shown in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons pumped to the water distribution
system.
      2.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      3.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed for water use
and sewer use.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged. (Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999)
9-4-11: APPEALS:
The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in this chapter shall be made available to a user within seven (7) days
of receipt of a written requirement for such. Any disagreement over the method
used or in the computation thereof shall be remedied by the Village within
fourteen (14) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies. (Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999)
9-4-12: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the Village
which are applicable, and the Village system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any State grant. (Ord. 1999-11, 10-4-1999)
9-4-13: FEE SCHEDULE:
The following is a list of applicable charges and fees for the waterworks and
sewerage systems, subject to any automatic increases or subsequent ordinance
amendments:
   Code Section Rates And Charges
                                           Code Section Rates And Charges
Connection and inspection fees:            9-1-4         
 Water meters:                                         
                   5/8 inch                          Actual cost of meter
                   Greater than 5/8 inch             Actual cost of meter
 Inspection fees:                                      
                   Water                             $100.00
                   Sewerage                          100.00
Deposit fee:                               9-4-1
 Residential                                          150.00
 Commercial                                           200.00
 Monthly water user rates:                9-4-3A1      $10.00/1,000 gallons
 Other water charges:                     9-4-3         
 Basic user charge                                     
 Debt service charge                                  6.00/month
 Capital improvement charge                           6.69/month
 Bulk sale of water                                   0.75/25 gallons
 New construction                                     75.00
Monthly sewer user rates:                  9-4-4A1      $7.25/1,000 gallons
Other sewer charges:                       9-4-4        0.00/month
 Debt service charge                                  7.19/month
 Capital improvement                                   
Wastewater service surcharge rate:         9-4-4C2       
 BOD                                                 0.05/pound
 SS                                                  0.02/pound
Industrial cost recovery                   9-4-5B5,     0.19/1,000 gallons
                                           9-4-5C1
Disconnect/reconnect                      9-4-6F2       
fee:
 Shut-off notice/red tag fee                           25.00
 Disconnect/reconnect first occurrence                 25.00
 Disconnect/reconnect second occurrence                75.00
 Disconnect/reconnect third or subsequent              225.00
  occurrence
Unauthorized turn on fee                   9-2-7A       75.00
Nonsufficient funds fee                    9-1-8C       40.00
Neglect/abuse water meter fee              9-4-2D       Current cost of new
                                                        replacement meter
                                                      
 
(Ord. 2019-14, 3-21-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 4-7-2022; Ord. 2022-30, 6-2-2022;
Ord. 2023-18, 4-6-2023; Ord. 2024-19, 4-18-2024; Ord. 2025-21, 4-17-2025; Ord.
2025-56, 9-16-2025)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Receptacle Requirements
9-5-3: Collection Of Garbage And Recyclable Materials
9-5-4: Collection Of Certain Materials Prohibited
9-5-5: Fees
9-5-6: Violations; Penalties
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
BULK MATERIALS: Includes couches, stuffed chairs, bed mattresses and such other
material as authorized by the garbage hauler of the Village.
GARBAGE: Includes all animal and vegetable refuse, all tin cans, wastepaper or
like materials, receptacles which have held any animal or vegetable matter,
broken crockery, glassware or utensils and other like materials, or items
defined as "garbage and debris" and "rubbish and trash" by the Solid Waste
Disposal District Act 1 .
GARBAGE HAULER(S): The company contracted by the Village to perform garbage and
recycling collection for all residential and commercial properties within the
Village.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Includes aluminum cans, trays and foil; aseptic packaging
and gable top containers (milk and juice cartons); steel cans and tins;
newspaper, magazines and other paper products; cardboard boxes; glass
containers, plastic containers and like materials; and such other material as
authorized by the garbage hauler of the Village.
WHITE GOODS: Includes stoves, washers, dryers, furnaces, hot water heaters, and
such other material as authorized by the garbage hauler of the Village.
Freezers, refrigerators and such other appliances that utilize freon are not
considered and not collected with other white goods. (Ord. 2019-22, 4-18-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 70 ILCS 3105/3.
9-5-2: RECEPTACLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Use Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit
any garbage or recyclable material, or cause the same to be placed or
deposited, upon any premises occupied by him, or permit the same to remain
thereon, except in such receptacles or in such locations as are hereinafter
provided, unless it is considered "bulk materials" or "white goods" as defined
in section
9-5-1 of this chapter. It shall also be unlawful for any person to deposit any
garbage or recyclable material or cause the same to be placed or deposited upon
any other person's property unless specifically authorized to do so by that
property owner or occupant of that property.
   B.   Specifications: The occupant of any premises in the Village is required
to utilize containers for garbage and recyclable materials that are provided by
the Village or by the garbage haulers for the Village.
   C.   Preparation For Storage: All garbage and recyclable materials shall be
drained of liquids before being deposited in the containers.
   D.   Storage Of Receptacles: All garbage and recyclable material receptacles
must be stored either adjacent to the primary structure or in some enclosure on
the premises when not placed for collection.
   E.   Placement For Collection: All garbage and recyclable material
receptacles, bulk materials and white goods shall be placed adjacent to the
street running along the property line. The Village Board of Trustees shall
establish the times that collections shall be made; however, no garbage or
recyclable material receptacles shall be placed for collection more than forty
eight (48) hours prior to the collection times established.
   F.   Removal Of Receptacles After Collection: All garbage and recyclable
material receptacles must be removed from the placement for collection not more
than forty eight (48) hours after collection occurs, unless arrangements are
otherwise made with the Village prior to placement for collection. (Ord. 2019-
22, 4-18-2019)
9-5-3: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS:
   A.   Weekly Collection: The Village shall collect from the business and
residential areas of the Village all garbage placed in appropriate containers,
bulk materials and white goods as herein provided, not less than once each
week.
   B.   Bi-Weekly Collection: The Village shall collect from residential
properties only all recyclable materials placed in appropriate containers bi-
weekly (every other week) at the times set forth by the Village.
   C.   Garbage Haulers: No person shall engage in collecting or removing
garbage within the Village except by the express authorization of the Village
Board of Trustees, and it shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder or obstruct the removal of garbage by any person authorized to do so.
   D.   Restrictions On Paint, Varnish And Stain Cans: Paint, varnish, stain,
or other paintlike materials in liquid form will not be collected by garbage
haulers of the Village unless the paint and other liquids are completely dried.
To completely dry the paint or other liquids, the lid must be removed from the
can, and kitty litter or sand must be mixed in the can until the liquid becomes
completely dried. Once the paint or other like liquid is completely dried, the
can may be placed in the garbage receptacle for collection. (Ord. 2019-22, 4-
18-2019)
9-5-4: COLLECTION OF CERTAIN MATERIALS PROHIBITED:
Waste materials including rubbish, grass, weeds, twigs and like materials,
lumber scrap, building material, junk or scrap metal, large automotive parts,
motor oil, insecticides, herbicides, hazardous materials, ashes, other similar
debris or materials not defined as "garbage" in section
9-5-1 of this chapter, or other items not accepted by the State of Illinois
approved transfer stations/landfills shall not be hauled, collected or removed
by the Village. (Ord. 2019-22, 4-18-2019)
9-5-5: FEES:
   A.   Any property in the Village corporate limits that has an active water
service to the property shall be required to pay a fee for garbage and
recycling collection as adopted by the Village Board of Trustees. The
applicable rate is available contacting the Heyworth Village Hall/Water
Department. (Ord. 2019-22, 4-18-2019)
9-5-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person or business entity violating any provision of this chapter, or
refusing or neglecting to conform to or carry out any of the requirements
hereof, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day such violation
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and be punishable as
such. (Ord. 2019-22, 4-18-2019)
CHAPTER 6
STORMWATER UTILITY
SECTION:
9-6-1: Stormwater Utility Established
9-6-2: Definitions
9-6-3: Stormwater Utility Fee Rate Structure, Responsibility For Payment
9-6-4: Stormwater Utility Fee Applicability
9-6-5: Stormwater Utility Rate
9-6-6: Billing; Delinquencies
9-6-7: Adjustments
9-6-8: Utility Administration; Appeals
9-6-9: Schedule Of Fees
9-6-1: STORMWATER UTILITY ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The stormwater utility herein established is a program to provide for
the management, regulation, construction, maintenance, and improvement of the
handling of stormwater runoff in the Village of Heyworth and for such purposes
may include all or part of the necessary engineering, planning, operations,
maintenance, repair, administration and enforcement, capital programs, and
educational efforts thereto related.
   B.   The management and supervision of the stormwater utility shall be under
the direction of the Director of Public Works.
   C.   The Village hereby establishes a Stormwater Utility Fund. All revenues
of the stormwater utility including late fees, administrative fees and interest
earned on the account shall be deposited into the Stormwater Fund and used only
for purposes of the stormwater utility as deemed appropriate by the Village
Board where appropriate or the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 2015-18, 4-16-
2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
9-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
DIRECT DISCHARGE: Means the conveyance of stormwater runoff directly to a
receiving stream (water of the State of Illinois) without entering the Village-
owned stormwater drainage system.
DUPLEX PARCEL: Means any parcel containing a single structure designed with two
(2) dwelling units for occupancy by one family in each unit. Each dwelling unit
shall contain at least one bedroom, a kitchen, and a bathroom.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): Shall be used as the basis for determining
the stormwater service charge to a parcel. Three thousand (3,000) square feet
of impervious area shall be one ERU.
GROSS AREA: Means the entire area of a parcel, including both the impervious
and pervious areas.
IMPERVIOUS AREA OR IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Means those areas that prevent or impede
the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Common impervious areas include,
but are not limited to, rooftops, sidewalks, walkways, patio areas, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas, compacted aggregate and awnings.
MULTI-FAMILY UNIT: Means any residential property that has more than one
single-family and larger than a duplex unit.
PARCEL: Means any designated lot, tract, or area of land, established by a plat
or other legal means and to be used, developed or built upon as a unit which is
partially or wholly inside the corporate limits of the Village of Heyworth.
SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (SFR): Means developed land containing one dwelling
structure which contains one or more bedrooms, with a bathroom and kitchen
facilities, designed for occupancy by one family. SFR units may include houses,
manufactured homes, and mobile homes located on one or more individual lots or
parcels of land.
STORMWATER FUND: Sometimes called, or titled, or stated Stormwater Utility
Fund, means the dedicated fund to support the stormwater utility created
herein.
STORMWATER SYSTEM: Shall mean a conveyance or system of conveyances and include
sewers, storm drains, curbs, gutters, ditches, swales, retention and/or
detention ponds or basins, dams, manmade channels or storm drains, and flood
control facilities and appurtenances thereof which is designed or used for the
collection, control, transportation, treatment or discharge of stormwater.
VILLAGE: Means the Village of Heyworth, Illinois, a municipal corporation.
(Ord. 2015-18, 4-16-2015, eff. 5-1-2015; amd. Ord. 2019-49, 9-17-2019)
9-6-3: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE RATE STRUCTURE, RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   Creation: A stormwater utility fee is hereby created to generate
revenue to fund the Village's stormwater utility. The revenue generated by the
fee will be obligated exclusively to the Stormwater Utility Fund.
   B.   Application: The stormwater utility fee shall be distributed among the
parcels in the Village based on the amount of impervious area on each parcel.
   C.   Responsibility For Payment: The owner of each parcel of real property
that is wholly or partially located within the corporate limits of the Village,
the occupant thereof, and the user of the service shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of any stormwater utility fee assessed against
said parcel. For purposes of this subsection, an owner includes, but is not
limited to, the owner of the parcel or parcels of a mobile home or trailer park
and the owner of the parcel or parcels of a multi-unit dwelling or apartment
complex.
   D.   Fee Rate Structure: The stormwater utility fee billing unit for all
parcels shall be intended to be based on the mean level of imperviousness on
single family residential parcels. This billing unit is known as an "equivalent
residential unit" or "ERU" and has been estimated to be three thousand (3,000)
square feet of impervious surface in the Village of Heyworth.
      1.   The minimum stormwater utility fee charged for any parcel in the
Village shall be one-half (0.5) of an ERU.
      2.   Single family residential and duplex parcels shall be billed one
(1.0) ERU each.
      3.   All other parcels in the Village shall be billed based on the
measured number of ERUs on the parcel. Fractional ERUs shall be rounded to the
nearest tenth (0.1) of an ERU. For example, ten thousand (10,000) square feet
of impervious area represents 3.333 ERUs and would be rounded to 3.3 ERUs for
billing purposes. (Ord. 2015-18, 4-16-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
9-6-4: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The stormwater utility fee shall be charged to all parcels in, or
partially in, the Village of Heyworth that receives a utility bill.
   B.   Parcels that are annexed into the Village after the stormwater utility
becomes operational shall be subject to the fee upon completion by the Public
Works Department of the applicable calculations of the amount of impervious
surface on the parcels in question unless the residential flat fee structure
applies. (Ord. 2015-18, 4-16-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
9-6-5: STORMWATER UTILITY RATE:
   A.   Utility Rate: The initial stormwater utility fee rate per ERU, per
month, shall be as set forth in section
9-6-9 of this chapter and effective as to each such parcel starting with bills
generated on or after such parcels become subject to this chapter.
   B.   Fee Review: The Village Treasurer shall no less than annually review
the Stormwater Utility Fund and make rate recommendations to the Village Board.
The Village Board shall review the recommendations and may adjust the
stormwater utility fee rates accordingly. (Ord. 2015-18, 4-16-2015, eff. 5-1-
2015)
9-6-6: BILLING; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Monthly Bills: The stormwater utility fee for all parcels shall be
billed monthly and be based on the number of ERUs as determined in section
9-6-9 of this chapter and the current monthly stormwater utility rate.
   B.   Set Fee: The stormwater utility fee for any parcel will remain constant
from month to month unless one of the following changes occurs:
      1.   A physical modification to the parcel that changes its level of
imperviousness; or
      2.   The stormwater utility fee rate is changed by the Village Board per
the schedule of fees.
Any new fee will be assessed on all bills processed on or after the effective
date of the fee or new fee unless otherwise specifically stated in the adopting
ordinance.
   C.   Rendition Of Bills; Delinquencies: The stormwater utility fee shall be
billed with the water and sewer utility bill and shall be subject to the due
date, late payment penalties, final bill requirements, and delinquency
provisions set forth in sections
9-4-6 and
9-4-7 of this title or any other such applicable sections or subsequent
applicable amendments to those sections. (Ord. 2015-18, 4-16-2015, eff. 5-1-
2015)
9-6-7: ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Adjustment Authority: A parcel's stormwater utility rate and/or
computed number of ERUs may be adjusted by the Director of Public Works to an
amount which more properly represents the impervious surfaces on a parcel. This
may be done upon presentation by the parcel owner of factual evidence which, in
the Director's sole discretion, establishes that the impervious area used to
determine the parcel's stormwater utility tier or the computed number of ERUs
was incorrect.
   B.   Responsibility Of Initiating Adjustment Process: The owner of the
parcel is responsible for initiating any review of the impervious area
computation for a parcel and presenting factual evidence in support of a change
in the impervious area if the owner wishes to have the parcel's stormwater
utility rate or computed number of ERUs adjusted. (Ord. 2015-18, 4-16-2015,
eff. 5-1-2015)
9-6-8: UTILITY ADMINISTRATION; APPEALS:
   A.   Accounts: Which costs and expenses shall be charged to and paid from
the Stormwater Utility Fund shall be determined by appropriations in the annual
budget or per the purchase and payment policy authorization given to the
Director of Public Works. The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
Stormwater Utility Fund. An annual audit by an independent audit firm will be
procured.
   B.   Access To Records: The Village shall allow any relevant agency of the
State of Illinois or its authorized representative to have access to any
applicable books, documents, paper and records of the stormwater utility fee
for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions
thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of loan agreements and rules of any
State loans.
   C.   Appeals: The method for determination of stormwater utility fee in
section
9-6-9 of this chapter shall be made available to a user within fifteen (15)
days of receipt of a written request by any party responsible for said bill.
Any discrepancy over the method used or in the computations thereof shall be
remedied by the Director of Public Works or his designee within thirty (30)
days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
The appeals process is structured as follows:
      1.   The parcel owner files an appeal requesting reconsideration of the
fees charged to the owner's parcel. The appeal shall be provided in the form
required by the Village and factual evidence in support of the adjustment must
be provided.
      2.   The initial appeal of a fee determination will be reviewed by
Department of Public Works staff. Upon completion of this review a
recommendation will be made to the Director of Public Works regarding the
resolution of the appeal. The written response to the parcel owner will be
mailed within thirty (30) days of receipt.
      3.   If a second appeal of the determination is requested, the request
will be heard by the Mayor. The written response to the third appeal will be
mailed within fifteen (15) days of its receipt by the Mayor. (Ord. 2015-18, 4-
16-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
9-6-9: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
 
Type Of Structure               Calculation                      Fee
Single family/duplexes          Flat fee = 1 ERU per living unit $2.00
Multi-family units: commercial; Parcel impervious area   x $2.00 Formula based
industrial; tax-exempt          ERU size (3,000 sq. ft.)
 
(Ord. 2019-14, 3-21-2019; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 4-7-2022; Ord. 2022-30, 6-2-2022)
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS FORMS AND FIGURES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Figures
9-7-1: FIGURES:
   WATER SERVICE LINE CUSTOMER AND VILLAGE RESPONSIBILITIES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1636.gif]
 
Notes:
   1.    In all instances that a repair is made by the Village on a water
service line, in the ROW the Village will be responsible for paying for
materials.
   2.    In all instances that a property owner must hire a plumber for repairs
the property owner will be responsible for paying for all materials, and the
cost of the plumber.
(Ord. 2019-52, 10-3-2019)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND HOUSING CODES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose And Intent; Compliance Required; Scope
10-1-3: Application And Interpretation Of Provisions
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-5: Enforcement Officials And Duties
10-1-6: Building Code
10-1-7: Residential Code
10-1-8: Life Safety Code
10-1-9: Fire Code
10-1-10: Mechanical Code
10-1-11: Fuel Gas Code
10-1-12: Existing Building Code
10-1-13: Electrical Code
10-1-14: Accessibility Codes
10-1-15: Plumbing Code
10-1-16: Reserved
10-1-17: Reserved
10-1-18: Swimming Pool And Spa Code
10-1-19: Garbage And Refuse Storage
10-1-20: Accessory Structures
10-1-21: Penalties
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the BUILDING AND HOUSING CODES ORDINANCE of the
village. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-2-2009)
10-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; SCOPE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect and preserve the physical and
mental health of the citizens of the village and to promote the general safety
and welfare of the citizens by establishing minimum standards, rules,
regulations and procedures for the location, construction, design,
reconstruction, maintenance and installation of buildings and structures, basic
equipment and facilities for light, plumbing, ventilation and heating, and
provide safety from fire; to establish the responsibilities of owners,
operators and occupants of buildings and structures; and to provide for the
administration and enforcement thereof.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other
business entity to do any building construction regulated by this chapter in
any way other than that authorized by this chapter and the technical codes as
adopted and modified hereby.
   C.   The requirements contained in this chapter covering the maintenance of
buildings and structures shall apply to all buildings or structures erected,
constructed, reconstructed or altered after March 1, 2009. All buildings or
structures, and all parts thereof, shall be maintained in a safe condition, and
all devices or safeguards which are required by this chapter during the
construction, alteration or repair of any building shall be maintained in good
working order. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-2-2009)
10-1-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall control the design and installation of all
building construction within the village, including, but not limited to, the
erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, rebuilding, alteration,
repair, moving, shoring, removal, demolition and conversion of occupancy of
buildings, structures and portions thereof; and the maintenance and
installation of plumbing equipment, heating equipment, boilers, elevators and
electrical wiring and appliances, including mechanical ventilation and natural
lighting fixtures and other mechanical devices located therein. (Ord. 2009-08,
2-2-2009)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
The definition section of any regulation hereinafter adopted by the village
shall be controlling for that specific regulation and may be referenced to
define any term not specifically set forth herein or in any regulation
hereinafter adopted. Any term not specifically defined in this chapter or in
the regulations adopted hereby shall be defined as stated in the latest edition
of Webster's Collegiate Dictionary.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached structure subordinate to the main or principal
structure and located on the same lot, the use of which is customary to the
main building.
OWNER: Any person, firm, corporation or other business entity which, alone,
jointly or severally with others, shall be in actual possession of, or have
charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, structure
or accessory structure within the village as owner, employee or agent of the
titleholder. Any person acting in the capacity of an "owner" shall be bound to
comply with the provisions of this chapter to the same extent as if he were the
"owner".
PERSON: Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization or
any other group acting as a unit as well as an individual. The term shall also
include an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative
appointed according to law. Whenever the word "person" is used in any section
of this chapter prescribing a penalty or fine, as to partnerships or
associations, the word shall include the partners or members thereof. Where
corporations are concerned, the word shall include the officer, agents or
members thereof who are responsible for any violation of such section. (Ord.
2009-08, 2-2-2009)
10-1-5: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Village Enforcement Official: The Building Inspector or Code Compliance
Officer, or in the event those offices are vacant, the Zoning Administrator,
shall, if required, determine that all requirements of this chapter and all
other applicable ordinances of the village are complied with and shall
determine if all applicable structures or accessory structures as set forth
herein are in full compliance.
   B.   Fire Protection District: The Randolph Township fire protection
district shall, if required, determine that all fire hazards have been
eliminated from the duplex, apartment house, motel, hotel or rooming house
premises, that such premises have proper and sufficient fire extinguishing
equipment and that such premises comply with all regulations and
recommendations of the Randolph Township fire protection district. (Ord. 2009-
08, 2-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-6: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules,
standards, regulations and procedures for the location, construction,
maintenance, alteration, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings
and structures and the service equipment located within such buildings or
structures, a Building Code known as the International Building Code 2021,
published by the International Code Council, with specific additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications and amendments as set forth in this
Chapter, which said Code as so amended is hereinafter referred to as the "IBC."
The provisions of the IBC are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if
set out at length and the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted,
modified and amended by this Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the Village.
      The provisions of said Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
as if set out at length and shall be controlling in regard to all buildings and
structures within the jurisdiction of the Village.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
IBC, 2021, are as follows:
      1.   Insert the phrase "Village of Heyworth, Illinois" in all locations
in the IBC where parenthetical reference is made to the "name of jurisdiction".
      2.   Insert the date March 1, 2025, in all locations in the IBC where
parenthetical reference is made to "date of adoption of this Code".
      3.   Section 101.2 - Scope. Add the Phrase "in zero lot line
construction," before the words "multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses)
not more than three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means
of egress."
      4.   Section 101.4.3 - Plumbing. Substitute the word "Illinois State" for
the word "International" in the first sentence.
      5.   Delete Section 102.4, 102.4.1, and 102.4.2 and substitute the
following:
         The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered
part of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between the provisions of this Code and
other adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
      6.   Delete Section 103 - Code Compliance Agency and insert in lieu
thereof the following:
         Section 103.0 - Department of Building Safety
         Section 103.1 - Building and Zoning Department. The Building and
Zoning Department of the Village of Heworth shall be the "Department of
Building Safety" as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.2 - Building Inspector or Code Compliance Officer. The
Building Inspector and or Code Compliance Officer of the Village of Heyworth
shall be the "Building Official" as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.3 - Restriction of Employees. The Building Official or
employee connected with the Building and Zoning Department except one whose
only connection is that of a member of the Village Board or the Zoning Board of
Appeals of the Village of Heworth, Illinois shall not be engaged in or directly
or indirectly connected with the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances
for the preparation of plans or the specifications therefore, unless that
person is the owner of the building, nor shall such officer or employee engage
in any work which conflicts with his official duties or with the interests of
the Department.
      7.   Add a new sentence at the beginning of Section 105.5 - Expiration as
follows:
         Every permit issued shall expire as set forth in Section 10-3-1 et
seq. of the Heyworth Village Code.
      8.   Add the following Section 105.8 - Additional Permit Requirements:
         Section 105.8 - Miscellaneous Permit Requirements: No building permit
shall issue until the following conditions are met:
            a.   Storm Water Storage. No person, firm, corporation or agency
shall be issued a building permit under this Chapter unless and until all
applicable requirements are met as set forth in Title 10, Chapter 6 of the
Municipal Code, Village of Heyworth.
            b.   No person, firm, corporation, agency, partnership or other
entity shall undertake or cause to be undertaken any type of alteration to the
exterior of any property designed a historical landmark by the Village of
Heyworth or any property located within an area designated as a historical
district by the Village of Heyworth without first submitting plans and
obtaining from the Village a building permit for such alteration. As used
herein, the term alteration means any type of modification or repair including
but not limited to maintenance, shoring, repair work, alteration, additions,
rejuvenations, rehabilitations, remodeling, or any other action which changes
in any manner the existing physical appearance of such property, except for
painting.
      9.   Section 107.5 - Retention of Construction Documents. This Section is
deleted.
      10.   Add at the end of Section 109.2 - Schedule of Permit Fees the
following:
         a.   General. The fee for a permit shall be based upon the square
footage of the improvements along with the reasonable cost of the improvements,
including material and labor in accordance with the fee schedule of Title 10,
Chapter 3 of the Heyworth Village Code.
      11.   Add to the existing language of Section 112.1 - Connection of
Service Utilities the following:
         No utility meters shall be placed on the street side(s) of any
commercial or multi-family building.
      12.   Delete Section 114.3 - Prosecution of Violation and substitute
therefore the following:
         In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Building
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law to obtain
penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the
removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the structure. The Village
may take action to abate any violation, and any costs incurred in abating such
violations may be charged against the real estate upon which such abatement
occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
      13.   Delete the existing language of Section 114.4 - Violation
Penalties, and insert in lieu thereof, the following:
         Section 114.4 - Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating,
disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or
opposing the investigation or enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Chapter or any of the Codes as adopted and modified hereby may be subject to
the penalties prescribed in Title 10, Chapter 3 of the Heyworth Village Code.
      14.   Add to Section 1027.1 - Exterior Exit Stairways and Ramps, as
follows:
         No exterior stairways shall be placed or construed on the street side
(s) of commercial or multi-family buildings.
      15.   Add to Table 1607.1 Balconies (exterior) and Decks. Section 5 -
Hotels and Multiple-Family Dwellings - 100.
      16.   Delete the existing language of Section 2901.1 - Scope, and
substitute in lieu thereof, the following:
         Section 2901.1 - Scope. The design and installation of plumbing
systems, including sanitary and storm drainage, sanitary facilities, water
supplies and storm water and sewage disposal in buildings and structures, shall
comply with the requirements of this Article, and the requirements of the
Illinois State Plumbing Code, 2014 edition.
      17.   Add Section 3001.6, as follows:
         Section 3001.6. Each elevator must comply with all state laws,
including required inspections, and must display any certificate of inspection.
A copy of proof of compliance with the state statute must be sent to the
Building Official upon the demand of the Building Official.
(Ord. 2010-36, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-7: RESIDENTIAL CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of regulating and controlling the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use of maintenance of building
systems in residential buildings thereto, a building code known as the
International Residential Code, 2021 Edition, published by the International
Code Council, as amended thereto with specific additions, deletions,
insertions, modifications, and amendments, as set forth in this Chapter which
said Code as so amended is hereinafter referred to as the "IRC." The provisions
of the IRC are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
and the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by
this Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all matters pertaining to the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use of or maintenance
of building systems in residential buildings thereto.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
IRC, 2021, are as follows:
      1.   In Section 101.2 - Delete the exceptions and insert the phrase "in
zero lot line construction" before the words: "townhouses not more than three
stories above grade plan in height with a separate means of egress and their
accessory ..."
      2.   Delete Sections 102.4 inclusive of the exception 102.4.1 and 102.4.2
and substitute the following:
      The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered part
of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this Code and other
adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
      3.   Delete Section 103 - Department of Building Safety and insert in
lieu therefore, the following:
         Section 103.0 - Department of Building Safety.
         Section 103.1 - Building and Zoning Department. The Building and
Zoning Department of the Village of Heworth shall be the "Department of
Building Safety" as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.2 - Building Inspector/Code Compliance Officer. The
Building Inspector and/or Code Compliance Officer of the Village of Heyworth
shall be the "Building Official" as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.3 - Restriction of Employees. The Building Official or
employee connected with Building and Zoning Department shall not be engaged in
or directly or indirectly connected with the furnishing of labor, materials or
appliances for the preparation of plans or the specifications therefore, unless
that person is the owner of the building, nor shall such officer or employee
engage in any work which conflicts with that person's official duties or with
the interests of the Department.
      4.   Section 104.6 - Right of Entry. Delete this entire section and
substitute therefore the following: The Building Official or his or her
designee is authorized to enter the structure or premises to inspect, subject
to constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry
is refused or not obtained, the Building Official is authorized to seek a
search warrant as authorized by law.
      5.   Section 105.2 - Work Exempt from Permit. Delete this section, work
exempt from a permit listed under Title 10, Chapter 3, Section 3 (10-3-3) of
the Heyworth Village Code.
      6.   Add at the beginning of Section 105.5 - Expiration as follows:
         Every permit issued shall expire and become invalid 365 days after the
issuance or a later date if a later date is indicated on the permit by the
building official. A permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for a one-
time extension per the requirements set forth in Section
10-3-1 et seq. of the Heyworth Village Code.
      7.   Section 105.8 - Responsibility. Add at the end of the Section the
following:
         Condition of Permits: A construction permit issued pursuant to the IRC
does not permit a person to perform electrical, plumbing, or other mechanical
work. All construction work performed in the Village of Heyworth shall be
performed in accordance with all plans and specifications submitted to the
Village of Heyworth for the issuance of a permit. It shall be unlawful for any
person to perform construction in a manner not consistent with the permit
issued. It shall be unlawful for any person to perform construction work for
which a permit is required without a permit. It shall be unlawful for any
person to perform construction work after a stop work order has been issued.
All having, mechanical, plumbing, and electrical work must be inspected before
being covered. It is the responsibility of the permit holder to call for all
inspections. No permit shall be assigned or transferred to any other person.
      8.   Add the following Section 105.10 - Additional Permit Requirements.
         Section 105.10 - Miscellaneous Permit Requirements. No building permit
shall be issued until the following conditions are met:
            a.   Storm Water Storage. No person, firm, corporation or agency
shall be issued a building permit under this Chapter unless and until all
applicable requirements are met as set forth in Title 10, Chapter 1 Section 6
(10-1-6) of the Heyworth Village Code, as amended.
      9.   Delete Section 106.3.1 - Approval of Construction Documents.
      10.   Amend Section 109.1.5 - Other Inspections to include:
         In addition to the called inspections above, a site inspection prior
to excavation, a pre-footing inspection prior to the placement of concrete and
a lot grading inspection shall all be required inspections enforced by the
Building and Zoning Department.
      11.   Delete Section 112 and substitute therefore, the following:
         Section 112 - Board of Appeals. All persons shall have the right to
appeal any decision of the Building Official to the Village Board of Trustees
of the Village of Heyworth, except no appeal may be taken after the Village of
Heyworth has initiated legal or administrative proceedings seeking compliance
with this Code or fines for violation of this Code.
      12.   Delete Section 113.3 - Prosecution of Violation and substitute
therefore:
         In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Building
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law to obtain
penalties or to restrain, correct, or abate such violation, or to require the
removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the structure. The Village
may take action to abate any violation, and any costs incurred in abating such
violations may be charged against the real estate upon which such abatement
occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
      13.   Delete the existing language of Section 113.4 - Violation Penalties
and substitute in lieu therefore the following:
         Section 113.4 - Violation Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation
violating any provision of this Code shall be subject to the penalty provisions
provided in the Heyworth Village Code.
      14.   Amend Table No. 301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria as
follows:
         a.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (20psf) under "Ground Snow
Load".
         b.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (107 mph) under "Wind Design
(Speed)".
         c.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (No) under "Wind Design"
(Topographic effects).
         d.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (No) under "Wind Design"
(Special wind region).
         e.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (No) under "Wind Design" (Wind-
borne debris zone).
         f.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (A) under "Seismic Design
Category".
         g.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (Severe) under "Subject to
Damage From" (Weathering).
         h.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (40") under "Subject to Damage
From" (Frost Line Depth).
         i.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (Moderate to Heavy) under
"Subject to Damage From" (Termite).
         j.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (Yes) under "Ice Barrier
Underlayment Required."
         k.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (Engineering Insurance Study)
under "Flood Hazards."
         l.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (2000) under "Air Freezing
Index."
         m.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (51 degrees) under "Mean Annual
Temp."
      15.   Delete the word "Townhouse" from Sections 302.2, 302.2.1 302.2.2,
302.2.3 and 302.2.6, and insert "Zero Lot Line Unit".
      16.   Amend Section 302.2 - Townhouses to read:
         Section 302.2 - Zero Lot Line Units. Each zero lot line unit shall be
considered a separate building and shall be separated by 2-hour assembly from
the foundation to roof underside. The assembly shall be continuous and shall
not be interrupted by unit partitions. This assembly shall be a UL listed or
USG approved.
      17.   Amend Section 302.6 - Dwelling/Garage fire separation by adding the
following sentence:
         With a detached garage where the separation between the garage and
another structure is less than 10', the entire garage shall be protected by 1/
2" gypsum board applied to the inside of the garage.
      18.   Delete Section 313 - Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems.
      19.   Amend Section 401.3 - Drainage to:
         Lot grading shall comply with the approved verified subdivision
grading plan as submitted by the lot developer. In addition, sump pump
discharge lines shall be connected to the storm water drainage system where
provided.
      20.   Amend Section 403.1.6 - Foundation Anchorage. Delete exceptions 2
and 3.
      21.   Delete the following Chapters in their entirety.
         a.   Chapter 11 - Energy Efficiency.
         b.   Chapter 25 - Plumbing Administration.
         c.   Chapter 26 - General Plumbing Requirements.
         d.   Chapter 27 - Plumbing Fixtures.
         e.   Chapter 28 - Water Heaters.
         f.   Chapter 29 - Water Supply and Distribution.
         g.   Chapter 30 - Sanitary Drainage.
         h.   Chapter 31 - Vents.
         i.   Chapter 32 - Traps.
         j.   Chapter 33 - Storm Drainage.
         k.   Chapter 34 - General Requirements.
         l.   Chapter 35 - Electrical Definitions.
         m.   Chapter 36 - Services.
         n.   Chapter 37 - Branch Circuit and feeder Requirements.
         o.   Chapter 38 - Wiring Methods.
         p.   Chapter 39 - Power and Lighting Distribution.
         q.    Chapter 40 - Devices and Luminaires.
         r.   Chapter 41 - Appliance Installation.
         s.   Chapter 42 - Swimming pools.
         t.   Chapter 43 - Class 2 Remote Control Signaling and Power-Limited
Circuits.
      22.   Delete the following Appendices:
         a.   Appendix AA. Sizing and Capacities of Gas Piping.
         b.   Appendix AB. Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances
Equipped with Draft Hoods, Category I Appliances, and Appliances Listed for Use
with Type B Vents.
         c.   Appendix AC. Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Direct-Vent
Venting Systems.
         d.   Appendix AD. Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an
Existing Appliance Installation.
         e.   Appendix AE. Manufactured Housing Used as Dwellings.
         f.   Appendix AF. Radon Control Methods.
         g.   Appendix AG. Piping Standards for Various Applications.
         h.   Appendix AH. Patio Covers.
         i.   Appendix AI. Private Sewage Disposal.
         j.   Appendix AJ. Existing Buildings and Structures
         k.   Appendix AK. Sound Transmission
         l.   Appendix AL. Permit Fees.
         m.   Appendix AM. Home Day Care - R-3 Occupancy.
         n.   Appendix AN. Venting Methods.
         o.   Appendix AO. Automatic Vehicular Gates
         p.   Appendix AP. Sizing of Water Piping System.
         q.   Appendix AR. Light Straw Clay Construction
         r.   Appendix AS. Strawbale Construction
         s.   Appendix AV. Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2010-36, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-8: LIFE SAFETY CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by reference for
the purpose of establishing rules, standards, and regulations for the
construction, protection, and occupancy features necessary to minimize danger
to life from effects of fire and address protective features and systems,
building services, operating features, maintenance activities to achieve life
safety, a Life Safety Code known as the National Fire Protection Association's
Life Safety Code, 2015 Edition, published by the National Fire Protection
Association (which said Code as so amended is hereinafter referred to as the
"LSC"). Not less than one copy of the LSC with any specified additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications and amendments as provided for herein, has
for more than thirty (30) days prior to the adoption of the Ordinance, been
filed and shall in the future be filed in the office of the village clerk of
Heyworth. As editions and amendments to the LSC are officially adopted and
published by the National Fire Protection Association, such new editions and
amendments are hereby adopted by the Village of Heyworth without further action
by the village board of trustees and such new editions and amendments shall be
effective when published by the National Fire Protection Association except for
those sections which are specifically modified, amended or deleted by this
chapter of the Village Code of Heyworth.
      The provisions of said Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
as if set out at length and shall be controlling in regard to all buildings,
materials, equipment, property and structures within the jurisdiction of the
Village of Heyworth.
   B.   Enforcement. The Office of the Illinois State Fire Marshall and all
local officers charged with the duty of investigating fires or conducting fire
prevention and life safety inspections per the Illinois Fire Investigation Act
(425 ILCS 25/0.01 et seq.) shall enforce the provisions of the LSC. (Ord. 2010-
36, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-9: FIRE CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of establishing rules, standards, regulations and
procedures for the location, construction, maintenance, alteration, use and
occupancy of buildings, property and structures with regard to fire safety and
the materials and equipment located within such buildings or structures and on
property, a fire code known as the International Fire Code 2021 Edition
published by the International Code Council as amended thereto with specific
additions, deletions, insertions, modifications, and amendments, as set forth
in this Chapter, which said Code as so amended is hereinafter referred to as
"IFC". The provisions of the IFC are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
as if set out at length and the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted,
modified and amended as hereinafter shall be controlling in regard to all
buildings, materials, equipment, property and structures within the corporate
limits of the Village. Nothing in the adoption of this IFC is intended to
abrogate or modify provisions of any the Fire Prevention Code adopted by the
Heyworth Village Code. Whenever provisions of this IFC conflict or are
different from the Illinois Fire Prevention Code (425 ILCS 25/0.01 et seq.),
any similar code adopted by the Randolph Township Fire Protection District, or
any other Code adopted by the Village of Heyworth, the stricter Code sections
shall prevail.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
IFC, 2021, are as follows:
      1.   Delete Chapter 1 except for Section 105 and substitute for the
deleted sections Chapter 1 of the International Building Code as adopted and
amended by the Heyworth Village Code as the administration chapter of this Fire
Code. All provisions of the IFC shall be enforced in the manner provided in the
International Building Code, including penalties for violation. Wherever in the
IFC reference is made to the "Fire Official" the term "Building Official" as
used in the International Building Code may be substituted.
      2.   Delete Appendix A - Board of Appeals, Appendix C - Fire Hydrant
Locations and Distributions and Appendix D - Fire Apparatus Access Roads.
      3.   Adopt as part of the International Fire Code Appendix B - Fire-Flow
Requirements for Buildings, Appendix E - Hazard Categories, Appendix F Hazard
Ranking and Appendix G Cryogenic Fluids - Weight and Volume Equivalents.
      4.   Adopt as part of the International Fire Code, Chapter 99 of the
National Fire Code, also known as NFPA 99, for the installation of all Medical
Gas Systems.
(Ord. 2010-36, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-10: MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the
utilization of materials, construction, installation, alteration, maintenance
and repair of all mechanical systems, heating systems, ventilating systems,
cooling systems, steam and hot water heating system process piping, boiler and
pressure vessels, appliances utilizing gas, liquid or solid fuels, chimneys and
vents, mechanical refrigeration systems, fireplaces, barbecues, incinerators,
crematories and other process matter or material regulated by or within the
scope of the International Mechanical Code, 2021, placed in or utilized in
connection with any building or structure within the Village of Heyworth, a
certain Code known as the International Mechanical Code, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., particularly the 2021 Edition thereof, with
specific additions, deletions, insertions, modifications and amendments as set
forth in this Chapter, which said Code as so amended is in this Chapter is
referred to as the "IMC." The provisions of the IMC are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length and the provisions thereof as
added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by this Chapter shall be
controlling in regard to all buildings and structures within the corporate
limits of the Village.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
IMC, 2021, are as follows:
      1.   Insert the phrase "Village of Heyworth, Illinois" in all locations
in the International Mechanical Code, 2021, where parenthetical reference is
made to the "name of jurisdiction".
      2.   Delete Section 102.8 - Referenced Codes and Standards and substitute
therefore the following:
         The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered
part of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between the provisions of this Code and
other adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
      3.   Delete Sections 103.1 - 103.3 and substitute therefore the
following:
         Section 103.0 - Building and Zoning Department.
         Section 103.1 - Building and Zoning Department. The Building and
Zoning Department of the Village of Heyworth shall be the "Department of
Mechanical Inspection" as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.2 - Building Commissioner. The Building Inspector and/or
Code Compliance Officer of the Village of Heyworth shall be the "Code Official"
as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.3 - Restriction of Employees. The Code Official or
employee connected with the Building and Zoning Department except one whose
only connection is that of a member of the Village Board of Trustees or the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall not be engaged in or directly or indirectly
connected with the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for the
preparation of plans or the specifications therefore, unless he is the owner of
the building, nor shall such officer or employee engage in any work which
conflicts with his official duties or with the interests of the Department.
      4.   Section 104.7 - Department Records. Delete this Section.
      5.   Sections 106.1.1 and 106.1.2 Annual audits. Delete these sections.
      6.   Section 106.4.3 - Expiration. Add the following sentence to the
beginning of this Section 106.4.3:
         Every permit issued shall expire per the terms of Section 10-3-1 et
seq. of the Heyworth Village Code.
      7.   Sections 106.1.1 and 106.1.2 Annual permits. Delete these sections.
      8.   Section 110.2 - Retention of Construction Documents. Delete this
Section.
      9.   Section 106.4.6 - Previous Approvals. Delete this Section.
      10.   Section 109.6 - Fee Refunds. Delete this Section.
      11.   Section 115.1 - Unlawful Acts. Add the following at the end of
Section 115.1:
         It shall be unlawful for any property owner to have on his or her
proper any equipment which is in violation of any provision of this Code or to
allow any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair,
remove, demolish or utilize a mechanical system in violation of this Code.
      12.   Section 115.2 - Notice of Violation. Substitute the word "may" for
the word "shall" in this Section. Add the following at the end of this Section:
         In addition, notice may be provided to the owner of any property upon
which a violation occurs. The owner of any property shall be responsible for
assuring that all mechanical systems on the property are in compliance with
this Code.
      13.   Section 115.3 - Prosecution of Violation. Delete this Section and
substitute therefore the following:
         In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Code
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law to obtain
penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the
removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the structure. The Village
may take action to abate any violation, and any costs incurred in abating such
violations may be charged against the real estate upon which such abatement
occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
(Ord. 2010-36, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-11: FUEL GAS CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the design,
installation, alteration, maintenance and repair of all fuel gas piping
systems, fuel gas utilization equipment and related accessories within the
scope of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 placed in or utilized in
connection with any building or structure within the Village of Heyworth, a
certain Code known as the International Fuel Gas Code, 2021, of the
International Code Council, Inc., with specific additions, deletions,
insertions, modifications and amendments as so amended is in this Chapter
referred to as the "IFGC". The provisions of IFGC are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length and the provisions thereof as
added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by this Chapter shall be
controlling in regard to all buildings and structures within the corporate
limits of the Village.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
IFGC, 2021, are as follows:
      1.   Insert the phrase "Village of Heyworth, Illinois" in all locations
in the IFGC, 2021, where parenthetical reference is made to the "name of
jurisdiction."
      2.   Delete Section 102.8 - Referenced Codes and Standards and substitute
therefore the following:
         The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered
part of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this Code and other
adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
      3.   Delete Section 103 and substitute therefore the following:
         Section 103.0 - Department of Building Inspections.
         Section 103.1 - Building and Zoning Department. The Building and
Zoning Department of the Village of Heyworth shall be the "Department of
Inspection" as the term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.2 - Building Commissioner. The Building Inspector and/or
Code Compliance Officer of the Village of Heyworth shall be the "Code Official"
as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.3 - Restriction of Employees. The Code Official or
employee connected with the Building and Zoning Department except one whose
only connection is that of a member of the Village Board or the Zoning Board of
Appeals of the Heyworth Village Code shall not be engaged in or directly or
indirectly connected with the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for
the preparation of plans or the specifications therefore, unless that person is
the owner of the building, nor shall such officer or employee engage in any
work with conflicts with his or her official duties or with the interests of
the Department.
      4.   Sections 106.1.1 and 106.1.2 - Annual permits. Delete these
sections.
      5.   Section 106.5.3 - Expiration. Add the following sentence at the
beginning of this Section:
         Every permit issued shall expire per the terms of Section 10-3-1 et
seq. of the Heyworth Village Code.
      6.   Section 107.2 - Retention of Construction Documents. Delete this
Section.
      7.   Section 106.5.6 - Previous Approvals. Delete this Section.
      8.   Section 109.2 - Schedule of Permit Fees. Insert "See Title 10 the
Heyworth Village Code."
      9.   Section 109.6 - Fee Refunds. Delete this section.
      10.   Section 115.1 - Unlawful Acts. Add the following sentence at the
end of this Section:
         It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property to allow or permit
any erection, construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition or
utilization of any equipment or piping in violation of any provision of this
Code.
      11.   Section 115.2 - Notice of Violation. Substitute the word "may" for
the word "shall" in this section.
      12.   Section 115.3 - Prosecution of Violation. Delete this section and
insert in lieu thereof the following:
         In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Building
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law to obtain
penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the
removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the structure. The Village
may take action to abate any violation, and any costs incurred in abating such
violations may be charged against the real estate upon which such abatement
occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
      13.   Section 115.4 - Violation Penalties.  Delete this Section and
substitute therefore the following:
         Section 115.4 - Violation Penalties. - Any person, firm or corporation
violating any provision of this Code shall be subject to the penalty provisions
provided in the Heyworth Village Code.
(Ord. 2010-36, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-12: EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of regulating and controlling the design,
construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair,
location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use of and maintenance of
existing buildings, a building code known as the International Existing
Building Code, 2021 Edition, published by the International Code Council, as
amended thereto with specific additions, deletions, insertions, modifications,
and amendments, as set forth in this Chapter which said Code as so amended is
hereinafter referred to as the "IEBC." The provisions of the IEBC are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length and the provisions
thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by this Chapter shall
be controlling in regard to all matters pertaining to the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, replacement,
addition to, use of or maintenance of existing buildings.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
IEBC, 2021, are as follows:
      1.   Insert the phrase "Village of Heyworth, Illinois" in all locations
in the IEBC where parenthetical reference is made to the "name of
jurisdiction".
      2.   Section 101.7 - Correction of Violations of Other Codes. Delete this
section.
      3.   Delete Sections 102.4, 102.4.1, and 102.4.2 and substitute the
following:
         The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered
part of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between the provisions of this Code and
other adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
      4.   Delete Section 103 - Code Compliance Agency and insert in lieu
thereof the following:
         Section 103.0 - Department of Building Safety.
         Section 103.1 - Building and Zoning Department. The Building and
Zoning Department of the Village of Heyworth shall be the "Department of
Building Safety" as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.2 - Building Commissioner. The Building Inspector and/or
Code Compliance Officer of the Village of Heyworth shall be the "Code Official"
as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.3 - Restriction of Employees. The Building Official or
employee connected with the Building and Zoning Department except one whose
only connection is that of a member of the Village Board or the Zoning Board of
Appeals established under the provisions of the Heyworth Village Code shall not
be engaged in or directly or indirectly connected with the furnishing of labor,
materials or appliances for the preparation of plans or the specifications
therefore, unless that person is the owner of the building, nor shall such
officer or employee engage in any work which conflicts with his or her official
duties or with the interests of the Department.
      5.   Section 104.2.2. Replace the word "shall" with the word "may" in
this Section and delete the exception.
      6.   Delete Section 105.1.1 and 105.1.2.
      7.   Add a new sentence at the beginning of Section 105.5 Expiration as
follows:
         Every permit issued shall expire as set forth in Section 10-3-1 et
seq. of the Heyworth Village Code.
      8.   Add the following Section:
         Section 105.8 - Permit - Demolition.
         Before any permit required by this Chapter is issued granting
authority to wreck a building or structure, the person engaged in the work of
wrecking, hereafter the wrecking contractor, shall file with the Village Clerk,
a Certificate of Liability Insurance from an insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Illinois. Said Certificate shall be in compliance with
the requirements set forth in Section
10-3-1 et seq. of the Heyworth Village Code.
      9.   Add the following Section:
         Section 105.9 - Moving Buildings.
            a.   Permit Required. No person, firm, or corporation shall move
any building along or over the public streets, alleys or other places within
the Village unless a permit is first obtained from the Village per the
requirements of Section 10-3-1 et seq. of the Heyworth Village Code.
      10.   Add the following Section 105.10 - Additional Permit Requirements:
         Section 105.10 - Miscellaneous Permit Requirements: No building permit
shall issue until the following conditions are met:
            a.   Storm Water Storage. No person, firm, corporation or agency
shall be issued a building permit under this Chapter unless and until all
applicable requirements are met as set forth in Title 10, Chapter 6, of the
Village Code, Village of Heyworth.
            b.   No person, firm, corporation, agency, partnership or other
entity shall undertake or cause to be undertaken any type of alteration to the
exterior of any property designed a historical landmark by the Village of
Heyworth or any property located within an area designated as a historical
district by the Village of Heyworth without first submitting plans and
obtaining from the Village a building permit for such alteration. As used
herein, the term alteration means any type of modification or repair including
but not limited to maintenance, shoring, repair work, alteration, additions,
rejuvenations, rehabilitations, remodeling, or any other action which changes
in any manner the existing physical appearance of such proper, except for
painting.
         In addition to the general penalties set forth in this Chapter, any
violation of the foregoing shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
Section 10-3-1 et seq. of the Heyworth Village Code.
      11.   Add at the end of Section 108.2 - Schedule of Permit Fees the
following:
         a.   General. The fee for a permit shall be based upon the reasonable
cost of the improvements, including material and labor in accordance with the
fee schedule of sub-section (b) of this Section. Estimated cost shall include
all cost of labor and material given a fair market value. In the absence of a
bona fide contract establishing the estimated costs, the values for arriving at
the fee for a permit shall be established by the Code Official upon the basis
of area and type of construction.
         b.   Fee Schedule. Fees shall be as set forth in Title 10 of the
Heyworth Village Code.
      12.   Section 108.4 - Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance. Delete the
language of this section and substitute in lieu thereof the following:
         If any person initiates construction without first taking out a
permit, such person shall pay, in addition to the regular fees prescribed for
permits, an additional amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the fee
required, and may be subject to all penalty provisions of this Chapter.
      13.   Add to the existing language of Section 111.1 - Connection of
Service Utilities the following:
         No utility meters shall be placed on the street side(s) of any
commercial or multi-family building.
      14.   Delete the existing language of Section 112 - Means of Appeals and
substitute therefore the following:
         Section 112 – Means of Appeals. Decisions of the Building Official may
be appealed to the Village Board of Trustees except no appeal may be filed
after the Village has initiated legal or administrative proceedings seeking
compliance with this Code or penalties for a violation of this Code.
      15.   Delete Section 113.3 - Prosecution of Violation and substitute
therefore the following:
         In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Building
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law to obtain
penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the
removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the structure. The Village
may take action to abate any violation, and any costs incurred in abating such
violations may be charged against the real estate upon which such abatement
occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
      16.   Delete the existing language of Section 113.4 - Violation/
Penalties, and insert in lieu thereof, the following:
         Section 114.4 - Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating,
disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or
opposing the investigation or enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Chapter or any of the Codes as adopted and modified hereby may be subject to
the penalties prescribed in the Heyworth Village Code.
      17.   Section 115.4 - Method of Service. Add the following to the end of
this Section. Notice sent by regular First-class mail to the last known address
of the owner shall be deemed to be proper service.
      18.   Section 116.5 - Emergency Repairs. Substitute the word "owner" for
the word "jurisdiction" in the first sentence of this section.
      19.   Section 116.6 - Hearing. Delete this Section. (Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-
2025)
10-1-13: ELECTRICAL CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for the
utilization of materials, construction, installation and alteration of all
electrical work placed in or utilized in connection with any building or
structure within the Village of Heyworth, a certain electrical code known as
the National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection Association,
particularly the 2020 Edition thereof, with specific additions, deletions,
insertions, modifications and amendments as set forth in this Chapter and
referred to as the National Electrical Code. The provisions of said Code are
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length and the
provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by this
Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all buildings and structures within
the corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
National Electrical Code, 2020, are as follows:
      1.   Article 230-91. Location of Overcurrent Protection. The service
overcurrent device shall be connected by no more than eight feet (8') of
raceway or service entrance cable from the meter device, in dwellings.
      2.   Article 240-54. Type "S" fuses and fuse holders for plug fuses are
mandatory, unless circuit breaker type panels are installed.
      3.   The use of #10 or smaller aluminum or copper-clad aluminum building
wire shall be prohibited.
      4.   Add at the end of the National Electrical Code - Section 1A - Local
Administration.
         Section 1A.1 - Application. Nothing in this Local Administration
Portion is intended to modify the obligations of persons performing electrical
work in the Village of Heyworth as required by the National Electrical Code.
Rather, this Section is intended to provide the means of obtaining compliance
with the National Electrical Code.
         Section 1A.2 - Position of Electrical Inspector.
            a.   Establishment - There has heretofore been created and is
hereby continued the Village of Heyworth employment positions of Building
Inspector and Code Compliance Officer (either of which occasionally referred to
in this Chapter as "Inspector"), which shall also have authority as and may be
referred to as an Electrical Inspector.
            b.   Supervision - An Inspector shall be hired as set forth in the
Village's Personnel Policy and per the requirements of the Heyworth Village
Code.
            c.   Qualifications - An Inspector shall be knowledgeable about
electricity and the installation and alteration of electrical equipment and
appurtenances and well versed in the rules, regulations, and requirements of
the National Electrical Code to perform the duties of the Electrical Inspector.
            d.   Duties - The Inspector shall have the following duties,
functions and responsibilities:
               (1)   To interpret and apply this Chapter;
               (2)   To issue all electrical permits hereunder,
               (3)   To inspect or cause the inspection of all construction,
installation, maintenance and alteration of electrical appliances, apparatus,
systems of electrical wiring, systems of poles for the carriage of such
electrical wiring, electric or illuminated signs or billboards and the
electrical wiring of all buildings or structures to see that such work is in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter;
               (4)   To perform the duties, functions and responsibilities
specified in the current Job Description of the Village of Heyworth employment
position "Building Inspector" or "Code Compliance Officer", which job
descriptions are approved from time to time by the Village Board.
         Section A. Permits Application, Issuance, Transferability and
Expiration. Persons desiring an electrical permit shall make application
therefore to the Inspector on forms prescribed by him or her. Before issuing
any permit, the Electrical Inspector may require such detailed plans,
specifications and drawings as are necessary to describe the work, materials
and manner of installation, alteration or repair. The Inspector shall issue a
permit when such plans show that said electrical work will be installed in
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. After a permit has been issued
by the Inspector, no change or modification in the plans or specifications
shall be made unless such change has been submitted to the Electrical Inspector
and approved by him. No electrical permit shall be issued to any person other
than someone appropriately licensed under this Chapter unless the permit is for
a dwelling or accessory structure that the permittee occupies as his residence.
         The term of an electrical permit shall comply with the requirements of
Section 10-3-1 et seq. of the Heyworth Village Code. Electrical permits shall
not be transferable and if after issuance, another person, trim or corporation
desires to complete the work initiated under a permit, it shall be necessary to
obtain a new electrical permit authorizing such completion.
         Section 1A.12 - Fees. The fees for electrical permits and inspection
of work performed thereunder shall be as follows:
            a.   Fees shall be as set forth in Title 10 of the Heyworth Village
Code.
         Section 1A.13 - Inspections.
            a.   Inspection Required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to conceal electrical conductors or equipment, energize an
electrical service or occupy or permit the occupancy of any building or
structure having wiring, equipment or components within the scope of regulation
provided by the National Electrical Code as adopted and modified hereby,
without in each case and in each stage of installation, calling for an
electrical inspection in the manner provided in this Chapter and obtaining
approval thereof by the Building Inspector.
            b.   Procedure. The Inspector shall be notified by the person
performing the electrical work when it or any portion of it is ready for
inspection, at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the requested inspection
time. All work shall be left uncovered and convenient for inspection until
inspected and approved.
         The Inspector shall endeavor to examine the work within one working
day after being notified that it is ready for inspection. All electrical work
when placed in position may be required to be tested by appropriate tests in
the presence of the Inspector and any and all defects corrected. Upon
satisfactory completion of the electrical work and approval by the Inspector,
the premises, installation or portion thereof obtaining approval shall be so
posted.
            c.   Inspection Upon Complaint. Upon written complaint of any
citizen of this Village as to the unsafe condition of any part of any such
electrical system within the Village, it shall be the duty of said Inspector to
inspect such part complained of, and if he finds that such complaint is well
grounded, or if the Inspector otherwise finds any defect, to require the owner
of the property on which the defective condition is located to put such part in
proper condition, and it shall then be the duty of such person, firm or
corporation to put such defective part in proper condition.
            d.   Condemnation of Electrical Work or Equipment. The Inspector
shall have the authority upon inspection or reinspection to condemn any or all
electrical work installed or being installed that may be considered unsafe or
hazardous to life and property. Upon condemnation of such work, the Inspector
shall serve a written notice upon the person owning, using or installing the
same to place the work in a secure and safe condition and in compliance with
the provisions herein contained.
         Upon condemnation of any electrical work, the Building Inspector is
authorized to refuse the connection or to order the disconnection of any
electrical supply lines until the condemned electrical work has been made safe
and is approved by the Inspector. Such order shall be in writing, signed by the
Inspector and served upon both utilities furnishing services in the Village and
upon the owner.
         It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to utilize
condemned electrical work or to reconnect an electrical supply to any condemned
electrical work from which the Building Inspector has refused to authorize a
connection or ordered a disconnection of electrical supply lines.
         Section 1A.14 - Violations, Penalties and Appeals.
            a.   Violations. In case of a violation of any provision of this
Code, the Inspector may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at
law or in equity or to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of
the structure. The Village may take action to abate any violation, and any
costs incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real
estate upon which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
            b.   Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying,
omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
investigation or enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any
of the Codes adopted and modified hereby, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine as prescribed in Title 10 of the Heyworth Village Code.
            c.   Appeals. All appeals of rulings or determinations of the
Inspector shall be to the Village Board. However, no appeal shall be taken
after the Village has initiated legal or administrative proceedings seeking
fines for violation of this Code or compliance with this Code. (Ord. 2010-36,
9-20-2010; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-14: ACCESSIBILITY CODES:
   A.   There is hereby adopted by reference, for the purpose of establishing
rules, standards, regulations and procedures required to allow a person with a
physical disability to independently get to, enter, and use a site, facility,
building or element, accessibility codes known as the Illinois accessibility
code, which shall be the most current version published by the capital
development board of the state of Illinois, with specific additions, deletions,
insertions, modifications and amendments that may hereinafter be stated in this
section (which said code, as so amended, is hereinafter referred to as the
"IAC") and ICC/ANSI 117.1, known as the "Standard for Accessible and Usable
Buildings and Facilities" (ICC A117.1 2017 edition), published by the
International Code Council, with specific additions, deletions, insertions,
modifications and amendments that may hereinafter be stated in this section.
Not less than one copy of these codes, with any specified additions, deletions,
insertions, modifications and amendments as provided for herein, has, for more
than thirty (30) days prior to the adoption hereof, been filed and shall in the
future be filed in the office of the Village Clerk of Heyworth.
   B.   The provisions of said codes are hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length and shall be controlling in regard to all
buildings, materials, equipment, property and structures within the
jurisdiction of the Village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2010-36, 9-20-2010; amd. Ord.
2021-09, 2-4-2021; Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-15: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations for materials,
construction, alteration and inspection of all plumbing placed in or in
connection with any building or structure, a certain plumbing code known as the
Illinois State Plumbing Code, particularly the 2014 Edition thereof, with such
amendments to said Code as are published from time to time by the State of
Illinois with specific additions, deletions, insertions, modifications and
amendments as set forth in this Chapter and referred to as the "ISPC" or
"Code." The provisions of the ISPC are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
as if set out at length and the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted,
modified and amended by this Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all
buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
ISPC, 2014, are as follows:
      1.   Section 890.120 Definitions - Add to the existing definitions in its
appropriate alphabetical location, the following:
         "Authorities Having Jurisdiction" - Within its corporate limits, the
Village of Heyworth shall be the "Authorities Having Jurisdiction" as that term
is used in this Code.
      2.   Section 890.120 Definitions - Building Classification - Add to the
existing language thereof, the following:
         "Building Classification" as used in this Code shall refer to the
building classifications set forth in the Building Codes of the Village of
Heyworth.
      3.   Section 890.510 Grease Interceptor Requirements - Amend Section
890.510 by adding to the existing language thereof the following:
         In all new construction and remodeling in which a grease interceptor
is required, only a grease interceptor with a capacity of no less than 1,000
gallons placed outside of the building no closer than 5 feet from the wall of
the building shall be approved. If physical limitations prohibit installation
of a 1,000 gallon grease interceptor, then the Plumbing Inspector may permit a
250 gallon interceptor if the Plumbing Inspector believes that there are
adequate safeguards in place to prevent grease from entering the sewer system.
Grease interceptors may only be placed inside a building in the event of a
remodel of a building for which there is no space available outside of the
building for a grease interceptor, or where the expected use of the property is
that of a restaurant that will not cook food, but serve only prepared foods
that will produce so little grease as to not require an exterior grease
interceptor as determined by the Plumbing Inspector. In the event that the use
of the property becomes such that an exterior grease interceptor is needed, the
Plumbing Inspector may order that an exterior grease interceptor be placed on
the property. All interior grease traps shall be Plumbing Drainage Institute
approved with a solid waste interceptor located before the grease trap.
      4.   Section 890.1200 - Water Service Sizing - Delete from Section
890.1200 the following:
         "Water service pipe and fittings shall be at least three-fourths (3/4)
inch diameter."
         Add in place thereof the following:
         "Water service pipe and fittings shall be at least one inch (1") in
diameter except that existing water service pipe and fittings may be repaired
or replaced with pipe and fittings at least ¾ inch in diameter."
      5.   Section 890.1910 - Inspections - Amend Section 890.1910 by adding to
the existing language the following:
         All drain, waste and vent piping in commercial, industrial or multiple
family buildings shall be tested with water while the Plumbing Inspector is
present.
      6.   Section 890. Appendix A - Plumbing Materials, Equipment, Use
Restrictions and Applicable Standards - Amend Table A - Approved Materials for
Water Service Pipe by adding the following at the end thereof:
         When polyethlene (PE) tubing is used as water service pipe, it must
meet ASTM D 2737 standards. Polyethlene (PE) pipe shall be installed only with
compression fittings with insert and clamp type fittings. All clamps shall be
of corrosion resistant material. The inside diameter (ID) of any insert fitting
shall not be less than the minimum allowable size for water service as required
by the Village of Heyworth ordinances and State plumbing code. PE tubing water
service shall be one continuous pipe from the curb stop or pig tail to the
building water meter. Every plastic, polyethylene (PE) or other non-metallic
water service pipe shall have a solid 12 gauge blue sheathed coated, copper
coated steel wire, suited for direct burial, this tracer wire shall be
connected to the coupling or curb stop secured to the service every 6 feet,
unbroken, and accessible at the water meter.
      7.   Section 890. Appendix A - Plumbing Materials, Equipment, Use
Restrictions and Applicable Standards - Amend Table A - Approved Materials for
Water Distribution Pipe by adding at the end thereof:
         Every plastic, polyethlene (PE) or other non-metallic water
distribution pipe which is not inside a building shall have a solid 12 gauge
blue sheathed coated, copper coated steel, suited for direct burial, tracer
wire connected to the coupling or curb stop secured to the service every 6
feet, and be unbroken for the length of the pipe. (Ord. 2010-36, 9-20-2010;
amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-16: RESERVED:  
(Reserved by Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-17: RESERVED:  
(Reserved by Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-18: SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE:
   A.   Incorporation by Reference. There is hereby adopted by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of establishing rules, standards, regulations and
procedures for the design, construction, alteration, repair, and maintenance of
swimming pools, spas, hot tubs, and aquatic facilities known as the
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2021 Edition, published by the
International Code Council as amended thereto with specific additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications, and amendments, as set forth in this
Chapter which said Code as so amended is hereinafter referred to as "ISPSC".
The provisions of the ISPSC are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if
set out at length and the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted,
modified and amended as hereinafter set forth shall be controlling in regard to
all design, construction, alteration, repair, and maintenance of swimming
pools, spas, hot tubs, and aquatic facilities within the corporate limits of
the Village. Nothing in the adoption of this ISPSC is intended to abrogate or
modify provisions of any adopted by the Municipal Code of the Village of
Heyworth. Whenever provisions of this ISPSC conflict or are different from any
other Code adopted by the Village of Heyworth, the stricter Code Sections shall
control.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
ISPC, 2021, are as follows:
      1.   Insert the phrase "Village of Heyworth, Illinois" in all locations
in the ISPSC where parenthetical reference is made to the "name of
jurisdiction".
      2.   Section 103 - Code Compliance Agency. Delete and insert in lieu
thereof the following:
         Section 103.0 - Department of Building Safety.
         Section 103.1 - Building and Zoning Department. The Building and
Zoning Department of the Village of Heworth shall be the "Department of
Building Safety" as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.2 - Building Inspector/Code Compliance Officer. The
Building Inspector and/or Code Compliance Officer of the Village of Heworth
shall be the "Building Official" as that term is used in this Code.
         Section 103.3 - Restriction of Employees. The Building Official or
employee connected with the Building and Zoning Department except one whose
only connection is that of a member of the Village Board or the Zoning Board of
Appeals the Village of Heworth, Illinois shall not be engaged in or directly or
indirectly connected with the furnishing of labor, materials or appliances for
the preparation of plans or the specifications therefore, unless that person is
the owner of the building, nor shall such officer or employee engage in any
work which conflicts with his or her official duties or with the interests of
the Department.
      3.   Section 106.2 - Retention of Construction Documents. Delete this
Section.
      4.   Section 108.6 - Refunds. Delete this Section. (Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-
2025)
10-1-19: GARBAGE AND REFUSE STORAGE 1 :
Every dwelling unit shall have adequate refuse, garbage, or rubbish storage
facilities on its property and shall utilize that facility. A failure to have
or utilize a property facility shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
2009-08, 2-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
 
Notes
1    See title 9, chapter 5 of this code.
10-1-20: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   A.   Prohibited Conditions: Accessory structures shall not obstruct light
and air of doors and windows of any dwelling unit or obstruct a safe means of
access to any dwelling unit or create fire and safety hazards or provide rat or
vermin harborage.
   B.   Maintenance And Repair:
      1.   Accessory structures shall be functional and shall be maintained in
a state of good repair and alignment.
      2.   All exterior appurtenances or accessory structures which serve no
useful purpose, and which are in a deteriorated condition which is not
economically repairable, shall be removed. Such structures include porches,
terraces, entrance platforms, garages, driveways, carports, walls, fences, and
miscellaneous sheds. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-02, 1-9-2025)
10-1-21: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, corporation, owner, lessee, agent, tenant or other person
or business entity that violates any of the provisions of this chapter, upon
being found guilty, shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each violation, or be imprisoned for not to exceed six (6) months, or both such
fine and such imprisonment. Each day that any such violation or failure
continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such.
   B.   Should a violation of this chapter be found, any occupancy or building
permit issued by the Village of Heyworth for the property in violation may be
revoked or a stop work order may be issued by the appropriate administrating
official of the Village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2025-
02, 1-9-2025)
CHAPTER 2
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Short Title
10-2-2: Purpose And Intent
10-2-3: Definitions
10-2-4: Enforcement Officials And Duties
10-2-5: Adoption Of And Amendments To Code
10-2-6: Dangerous, Incomplete Or Abandoned Buildings
10-2-7: Broken Windows And Light Fixtures; Boarded Up Premises
10-2-8: Emergency Measures
10-2-9: Violation; Penalties
10-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ORDINANCE of the
village. (Ord. 2009-09, 2-2-2009)
10-2-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and welfare
by establishing rules, standards and regulations and requirements for the
continued use and maintenance of plumbing, mechanical, electrical and fire
protection systems in all existing residential and nonresidential structures,
together with the land on which they are situated, to prevent blight and
deterioration of neighborhoods, and establish the responsibilities of owners,
operators and occupants of any property within the jurisdiction of the village.
(Ord. 2009-09, 2-2-2009)
10-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Any definitions pertaining to health and sanitation that are set forth
in chapter 1 of this title are hereby adopted by reference as a part of this
chapter.
   B.   "Public nuisance" includes any of the following:
      1.   The physical condition or use of any premises regarded as a public
nuisance at common law; or
      2.   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of the premises considered
an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not limited to, abandoned
wells, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences and structures; or
      3.   Any premises which is manifestly capable of being a fire hazard, or
is manifestly unsafe or unsecured as to endanger life, limb or property; or
      4.   Any premises which is unsanitary or which is littered with rubbish
or garbage; has uncontrolled growth of weeds; is damaged by fire to the extent
the structure is beyond repair; or is in danger of collapse; or
      5.   Any premises cluttered with junk and debris so as to prevent the
orderly maintenance or care of the property; or
      6.   Any other nuisance as defined in title 5 of this code. (Ord. 2009-
09, 2-2-2009)
10-2-4: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Village Enforcement Official: The designated administrating official
shall administer, enforce and determine that all requirements of this chapter
are complied with and shall determine if all applicable structures or accessory
structures as set forth in this chapter are in full compliance.
   B.   Enforcement Duties: The administrating official is authorized and
empowered to enter upon any premises for the purpose of inspecting the same. If
any of the conditions enumerated in this chapter exist, creating a nuisance
according to the provisions of this chapter, the inspector is authorized to
give ten (10) days' notice to the owner or occupant of the premises to correct
the condition(s). If the same is not corrected within the time specified in the
notice, the officer is authorized and directed to post the premises with a sign
stating "occupancy prohibited" and revoke any occupancy permits issued by the
village. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-18-2010)
10-2-5: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
   A.   Adoption. There is hereby adopted by reference by the Village of
Heyworth for the purpose of ensuring the public health, safety and welfare
insofar as they are effected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of
structures and premises in the Village of Heyworth, and to prevent blight and
deterioration of neighborhoods, a property maintenance code known as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021, published by the International
Code Council, Inc. with specific additions, deletions, insertions,
modifications and amendments as set forth in this Chapter. The provisions of
the International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition, are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length, and the provisions thereof
as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by this Chapter shall be
controlling in regard to all premises, buildings and structures within the
corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   Additions, Deletions, Insertions, Modifications and Amendments to the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021, are as follows:
      1.   Insert the phrase "Village of Heyworth, Illinois" in all locations
in the International Property Maintenance Code where parenthetical reference is
made to the "name of jurisdiction".
      2.   Section 101.3 - Delete the second sentence and substitute therefore
the following:
         An additional purpose of this Code is to prevent blight and
deterioration of neighborhoods. Existing structures and premises that do not
comply with these provisions and which do not meet a minimum level of health
and safety shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health
and safety as required herein.
      3.   Section 102.1 - Delete the second sentence.
      4.   Section 102.2 - Delete the last sentence and substitute therefore
the following:
         The owner and the owner's designated agent shall be jointly and
severally responsible for the maintenance of buildings and structures and
premises.
      5.   Section 102.3 - Delete this section in its entirety and substitute
therefore the following:
         Repairs, additions, or alterations to a structure, or changes of
occupancy shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the
appropriate zoning, building, mechanical, and other Codes of the Village of
Heyworth. Nothing in this Code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set
aside any provision of the zoning, building, mechanical, or other Code of the
Village of Heyworth.
      6.   Section 102.7 - Delete this section and substitute therefore the
following:
         The provisions of this Code shall not be mandatory for structures
designated by the state or the Village of Heyworth as historic buildings when
such buildings or structures are judged by the Code Official to be safe and in
the public interest of health, safety, and welfare.
      7.   Sections 102.8, 102.8.1, and 102.8.2 - Delete and substitute
therefore the following:
         The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be those that
are listed in this Chapter and considered part of the requirement of this Code
to the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur
between provisions of this Code and the referenced standards, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.
      8.   Section 103 - Delete the entirety of Section 103 - Department of
Property Maintenance Inspection and insert in lieu therefore the following:
         Section 103 - Building and Zoning Department.
         Section 103.1 - The Building and Zoning Department of the Village of
Heyworth shall be the "Department of Public Works" as that term is used in this
Code."
         Section 103.2 - The Building Inspector and/or Code Compliance Officer
of the Village of Heyworth shall be the "Code Official" as that term is used in
this Code.
         Section 103.3 - Restriction of Employees. The Code Official or
employee connected with the enforcement of this Code, except one whose only
connection is that of a member of the Village Board or Zoning Board of Appeals
established under the provisions of the Heyworth Village Code shall not be
engaged in, or directly or indirectly connected with, the furnishing of labor,
materials or appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance of a
building, or the preparation of construction documents thereof, unless that
person is the owner of the building; nor shall such officer or employee engage
in any work that conflicts with official duties or with interests of the
department.
      9.   Section 105.3 - Right of Entry. Delete this entire Section and
substitute therefore the following: The Code Official or his designee is
authorized to enter the structure or premises to inspect, subject to
constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is
refused or not obtained, the Code Official is authorized to seek a search
warrant as authorized by law.
      10.   Section 107.1:
         Delete the existing language of Section 107.1 and substitute in lieu
therefore the following:
         Section 107 - All persons shall have the right to appeal any decision
of the Code Official to the Village Board of the Village of Heyworth, however
if the Village of Heyworth has instituted legal or administrative proceedings
against any person, the Village Board shall not have jurisdiction unless
specifically authorized by the court or Administrative Hearing Officer.
      11.   Section 109.2 - Notice of Violation. Add the following sentence:
         However, the failure to seize a notice shall not prevent the
prosecution of legal actions, including administrative adjudication procedures,
seeking fines and compliance with this Code.
      12.   Section 109.3 - Prosecution of Violation. Delete the existing
language and substitute therefore the following:
         In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Code
Official may, subject to the policies of the Village, cause to be instituted
the appropriate proceeding at law to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct
or abate such violation, or to require the removal or termination of an
unlawful occupancy of the structure. Any violation of any provision of this
Code shall be deemed a strict liability offense. The Village may take action to
abate any violation, and any costs incurred in abating such violations may be
charged against the real estate upon which such abatement occurs and shall be a
lien upon such property.
      13.   Section 109.4 - Violation Penalties. Delete the existing language
and substitute therefore the following:
         Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Code shall
be subject to any fines or penalties as enumerated in Sections 5-1C-6 and/or
10-1-21 of the Heyworth Village Code.
      14.   Section 111.4 - Notice. Delete this section and substitute
therefore the following:
         Notice to Owner, Agent or Other Responsible Person. Whenever the Code
Official determines that there has been a violation of this Code or has grounds
to believe that a violation has occurred, notice may be given in the manner
prescribed in Sections 109.2 and 109.3 to the owner, agent or person
responsible for the maintenance of the property as specified in this Code.
Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply with Section 108.3.
      15.   Section 111.4.1- Form. Delete this Section and substitute therefore
the following:
         Such notice prescribed in Section 111.4.1 shall be in accordance with
all of the following:
            a.   Be in writing.
            b.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
            c.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued.
            d.   May include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to
make the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or
structure into compliance with the provisions of this Code.
            e.   Inform the property owner, agent or other person responsible
of the right to appeal.
            f.   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance
with Section 109.3.
      16.   Section 111.4.2 - Method of Service.
         Add the following language to option 2 after the last sentence:
         “The address listed with the McLean County Tax Assessor's Office for
receipt of the property tax bill for the property shall be considered the last
known address unless the property owner has otherwise notified the Village with
their utility billing address.”
      17.   Section 301.2 - Responsibility. Insert the words "including the
interior of the structure" after the word "structure' in the first sentence.
Insert the words "exclusively" after the word "they" in the third sentence.
      18.   Section 302.1 - Sanitation. Delete the second sentence and
substitute therefore:
         “No well, cistern, excavation or other depression shall exist in a
dangerous or unprotected condition.”
      19.   Section 302.2 - Grading and Drainage. Add at the end of this
section:
         No fill excavation dirt, or concrete chunks should be mounded above
the natural terrain.
      20.   Section 302.4 - Weeds. Delete the language of this Section and
substitute therefore the following:
         Section 302.4 - Vegetation.
            a.   All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free
from noxious weeds or turf grass, which exceed eight inches (8") in height.
            b.   All areas not containing a structure, paved pathway, driveway,
or permitted hard surfaced parking area must be covered with vegetation such as
grass, shrubs, trees or gardens. Where the vegetation has died, the area must
be re-planted.
            c.   All dead trees, tree limbs and shrubs shall be removed.
            d.   All bushes and trees must be trimmed to allow for free passage
along sidewalks and streets, and to allow for adequate line of sight for
vehicular and pedestrian traffic along streets and sidewalks.
            e.   Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property
to cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice violation, the Village of
Heyworth shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and cut
and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall be
paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property and such costs may
become a lien on the property.
      21.   Section 302.7 - Accessory Structures.
         Add the word "sheds" after the word garages.
      22.   Section 302.8 - Motor Vehicles. Delete the entire Section and
substitute therefore:
         No unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicle shall remain on a premises
unless such vehicle is in an enclosed principal use for the maintenance,
repair, sale, storage or manufacture of vehicles. Motor vehicles may not be
parked other than on a permitted hard- surfaced area except major recreational
equipment and domestic utility trailers as provided by the Heyworth Village
Code. In areas where repeated violations of this section occur, the Code
Official can require a property owner to install curbs, fences, posts or other
devices intended to prevent violations of this section. No truck with more than
two axles or any vehicle with a height in excess of eight feet (8') or a gross
weight of more than ten thousand (10,000) pounds, or any trailer, except for
major recreational equipment or domestic utility trailers, shall be parked on
any premises outside of a building which are zoned for residential purposes
except when such vehicle is being used for delivery purposes, or when a
construction permit has been issued for the property and the truck or trailer
is reasonably necessary for the completion of the construction, or as otherwise
provided by law. No owner of property or person responsible for the maintenance
of property shall permit a violation of this Section to occur on their
property.
      23.   Section 304.1.1 - Add at the end: The foregoing list shall not be
considered an exhaustive list of unsafe conditions but shall be considered as
examples of unsafe conditions. Any condition which causes a structure to be
unsafe so as to create a danger to the occupants or the public may be declared
an unsafe condition requiring repair, removal, replacement, or closure.
      24.   Section 304.2 - Add the following language at the end of this
Section:
         All exterior surfaces including windows and doors shall be maintained
in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling paint, cracked or loose plaster,
decayed wood, and other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
         Exterior painted surfaces of dwelling and child and day care
facilities, including fences and accessory structures, which contain lead
levels equal to or greater than 1.0 milligram per square centimeter or an
excess of 0.50 percent lead by weight shall be maintained in a condition free
from peeling, chipping and flaking paint.
      25.   Section 304.5 - Foundation walls. Add the words "and water" after
the word "pests".
      26.   Section 304.7 - Roofs and Drainage. Delete the entire section and
substitute therefor the following:
         The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects that
admit rain. The roof shall not have curled or missing shingles or tiles. Only
approved roofing materials may be used for repairs. Roof drainage shall be
adequate to prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion
of the structure, and the exterior of the structure. Roof drains, gutters and
downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from obstructions. Roof
water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a private or public
nuisance or the accumulation of standing water, either on the property or other
properties. Gutters and downspouts shall be required on all buildings
originally designed to have gutters and downspouts.
      27.   Section 304.13 - Window, Skylight and Door Frames. Add the
following:
         Boarding Up. No window, door or other opening shall be boarded up or
otherwise secured by any means other than conventional methods used in the
design of the building or otherwise permitted for new construction of similar
type for a period in excess of thirty (30) days unless authorized pursuant to a
vacant building plan.
      28.   Section 304.14 - Insect Screens.
         Insert the dates "April 15" and "October 15" as the beginning and
ending dates for the requirement of insect screens.
      29.   Section 305.1.1 - Add at the end: The foregoing list shall not be
considered an exhaustive list of unsafe conditions but shall be considered as
examples of unsafe conditions. Any condition which causes a structure to be
unsafe so as to create a danger to the occupants or the public may be declared
an unsafe condition requiring repair, removal, replacement, or closure.
      30.   Section 305.3 - Interior Surfaces.
         Delete this section and substitute in lieu therefore the following:
         Section 305.3 - Interior Surfaces. All interior surfaces, including
windows and doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition.
Peeling paint, cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood, and other defective
surface conditions shall be corrected. Interior painted surfaces of dwelling
and child and day care facilities, which contain lead levels equal to or
greater than 1.0 milligram per square centimeter or an excess of 0.50 percent
lead by weight shall be maintained in a condition free from peeling, chipping
and flaking paint. No interior surface shall have an excess accumulation of
mold or mildew. All worn, frayed or un-cleanable carpet or vinyl shall be
replaced.
      31.   Section 307.1 - Handrails and Guardrails. Delete the number 30
wherever it appears in this Section and substitute therefore the number 36.
      32.   Section 308.1.1 - Outdoor Storage of Indoor Upholstered Furniture.
Add the following:
         Section 308.1.1 - Outdoor Storage of Indoor Upholstered Furniture. No
person shall place, use, keep, store or maintain outdoors any indoor
upholstered furniture not manufactured for outdoor use, including, but not
limited to, upholstered chairs and couches, except when said indoor upholstered
furniture is placed at the curb on the customary collection day for it to be
removed as part of bulky waste removal, or when said indoor upholstered
furniture is placed outdoors as part of a garage sale allowed under the Village
Code. No real property owner or real property manager or other person in
control of such real property shall permit indoor upholstered furniture to
remain on such real property after it has been placed there in violation of
this Section. As used herein indoor upholstered furniture means any furniture
constructed with stuffing or cushions or springs, not intended for outdoor use.
As used herein, outdoors means any place visible from a public place and
exposed to precipitation, including but not limited to yards, rooftops, and
unenclosed porches, decks, patios, and balconies. As used herein "unenclosed"
means an area not totally surrounded with a combination of walls, windows,
doors, floor and roof
      33.   Section 308.2.1 - Rubbish Storage Facilities.
         Add the phrase "of adequate size and number" before the word "and".
      34.   Section 308.3.1 - Garbage Facilities. Delete this Section and
substitute therefore:
         The owner of every dwelling unit shall supply approved leak-proof,
covered outside garbage containers of sufficient size to accommodate all
garbage generated by the dwelling unit(s).
      35.   Section 309.2 - Owner. Delete the phrase "within the structure
prior to renting or leasing the structure."
      36.   Section 309.3 - Single Occupant. Delete this Section.
      37.   Section 309.4 - Multiple Occupancy. Delete this Section.
      38.   Section 309.5 - Occupant. Delete this Section.
      39.   Section 401.1 - Add the following to the end of this Section:
         Nothing in this Code shall abridge the requirements of the Mechanical
Code of the Heyworth Village Code. In places where this Code and the Mechanical
Code conflict, the stricter restriction shall control.
      40.   Section 402.1 Habitable Spaces - Add the following to the end of
this Section:
         a.   For residential properties that are used as rental properties,
bedrooms that are below grade and that existed prior to October 1, 2010, shall
cease their use as bedrooms effective March 1, 2028, unless those rooms can
meet the following standards:
            (1)   Stair and hallway geometry. All stairs leading to such
bedrooms must have a riser height of no more than 8.25 inches, a tread depth of
no less than 9 inches, a tread width of no less than 32 inches and a headroom
clearance of no less than 76 inches. Hallways and doors serving bedrooms must
be at least 32 inches wide.
            (2)   Ceiling height. The ceiling height in the bedroom and all
hallways and doors serving bedrooms shall be a minimum of 80 inches high.
Projections from the ceiling into the room, such as beams and ducts, may not
intrude so that the remaining height is below 76 inches. Projections into the
room may not constitute more than 25% of the overall ceiling area.
            (3)   Egress windows and doors. Except as set forth in Subsection
(l) of this Section, egress must be provided as set forth in Section R310 and
R311 of the Edition of the International Residential Code adopted by the
Heyworth Village Code.
            (4)   Smoke alarms. Smoke alarms must be provided as set forth in
the International Residential Code adopted by the Heyworth Village Code.
      41.   Section 403.3 - Cooking Facilities. Delete the second exception.
      42.   Section 404.1 - Privacy. Add at the end of this Section the
following language:
         No dwelling unit shall be constructed so that access to the street or
additional facilities such as laundry rooms or heating facilities requires a
person to pass through any other dwelling unit or commercial unit.
      43.   Section 404.5 - Overcrowding. Add the phrase at the end of the
first sentence "or as permitted by the Zoning Code of the Heyworth Village
Code."
      44.   Section 501.1 - Add the following to the end of this Section:
         Nothing in this Code shall abridge the requirements of the Illinois
State Plumbing Code, current edition. In places where this Code and the
Plumbing Code conflict, the stricter restriction shall control.
      45.   Section 502.5 - Public Toilet Facilities. Delete the word
"International."
      46.   Section 503.4 - Floor Surface. Add at the end of this Section the
following:
         In dwelling units, the floor must be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      47.   Section 505.1 - General. Omit word "International."
      48.   Section 507.1 - Storm Drainage.
         Delete the words "a public nuisance" and substitute therefore "a
private or public nuisance. The accumulation of standing water, either on the
property or other property, is prohibited. Gutters and downspouts shall be
required and shall be in good repair."
      49.   Section 601.1 - General.
         Add the following to the end of this Section:
         Nothing in this Code shall abridge the requirements of the Mechanical
or the Electrical Code of the Village of Heyworth. In places where this Code
and the Mechanical or Electrical Code conflict, the stricter restriction shall
control.
      50.   Section 602.2 - Residential Occupancies.
         Delete the exception and the phrase "based on the winter outdoor
design temperature for the locality indicated in Appendix D of the plumbing
code" and substitute therefore "when the outdoor temperature is minus ten
degrees Fahrenheit (-10° F). Portable heating equipment shall not be considered
as heating facilities".
      51.   Section 602.3 - Heat Supply.
         Insert October 1 and May 1 for the starting and ending dates of the
heating season.
         Delete the exception and add the following at the end of the sentence:
"when the outdoor temperature is above minus ten degrees Fahrenheit (-10°F).
When the outdoor temperature is below minus ten degrees Fahrenheit (-10° F),
the heating system must be operating at full capacity".
      52.   Section 602.4:
         Insert October 1 and May 1 for the starting and ending dates of the
heating season.
      53.   Section 606 - Elevators, Escalators, and Dumbwaiters. Delete
Section 606.
      54.   Section 701.1 - Add the following to the end of this Section:
         Nothing in this Code shall abridge the requirements of the Fire Code,
of the Heyworth Village Code, or any other Code of the Village of Heyworth. In
places where this Code and any other Code conflict, the stricter restriction
shall control.
      55.   Section 702.1 - Omit the second sentence and substitute therefore
the following: No egress door shall be blocked by any chair, table, or other
object at any time.
      56.   Section 702.2 - Omit this Section:
         Arrangements of chairs or tables and chairs shall provide for ready
access by aisle accessways and aisles to each egress door. The clear width of
aisles shall not be blocked by chairs, tables or other objects.
      57.   Section 702.3 - Locked Doors. Add the following after the word
"Code":
         "and is approved by the Code Official for security purposes."
      58.   Section 702.5 - Arrangements. Add the following:
         Arrangements. Exits from dwelling units, rooming units, guest rooms,
or dormitory units shall not lead through other such units or through toilet
rooms or bathrooms.
      59.   Section 702.6 - Exit Signs. Add as follows:
         Exit Signs. All means of egress shall be indicated with approved exit
signs as required by the Building Code. All exit signs shall be maintained
visible and illuminated at all times that the building is occupied.
      60.   Section 702.7 - Stairway Identifiable. Add as follows:
         Stairway identifiable. A sign shall be provided at each floor landing
in all interior stairways more than three stories above grade, designating the
floor level above the floor of exit discharge.
      61.   Section 702.8 - Emergency escape. Add as follows:
         Emergency escape. Every sleeping room located below the third story in
residential occupancies shall have at least one operable window or exterior
door approved for emergency egress or rescue or shall have access to not less
than two approved independent exits, except for buildings equipped throughout
with an automatic fire suppression system.
      62.   Section 703.4 - Opening Protectives. Add the following sentence at
the end:
         Fire doors shall not be held open by door stops, wedges or other
unapproved hold-open devices.
      63.   Section 704.1.3 - Fire protection systems. Add as follows:
         Fire extinguishers shall be maintained in operating condition and
shall be visible with ready access thereto. Fire extinguishers shall display a
certificate of inspection from a licensed Illinois Fire Equipment Distributor
bearing a date no more than one year old.
      64.   Section 704.5 - Fire Department Connection. Delete this Section.
      65.   Section 704.6 - Single and Multiple Station Smoke Alarms. Delete
this Section and substitute therefor the following:
         Approved smoke alarms shall be installed and maintained in all
structures except sheds with no electrical service and which are generally not
occupied by persons.
      66.   Section 704.6.1 - Where Required. Delete this Section.
      67.   Section 704.6.1.1- Group R-1. Delete this Section.
      68.   Section 704.6.1,2 - Group R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1. Delete the words
"Group R-2, R-3, R-4 and 1-1" and substitute therefore the words "all
buildings" and add the following at the end of this Section: "4. Hard-wired
smoke alarms or smoke detectors may not be replaced with battery operated smoke
detectors or smoke alarms."
      69.   Section 705.1 - Carbon Monoxide Detectors. Add as follows:
         Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with at least one approved
carbon monoxide alarm in an operating condition within fifteen feet (15') of
every room used for sleeping purposes.
      70.   Section 706 - Hazardous Materials. Add as follows:
         Combustible, flammable, explosive or other hazardous materials such as
paints, volatile oils, and cleaning fluids or combustible trash such as
wastepaper, boxes and rags shall not be accumulated or stored unless such
storage complies with applicable requirements of the Fire Code.
(Ord. 2009-09, 2-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2010-42, 10-18-2010; Ord. 2025-03, 1-23-
2025)
10-2-6: DANGEROUS, INCOMPLETE OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS:
Dangerous or unsafe buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the
corporate limits of the village are hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall
be remediated, abated or otherwise addressed in the manner set forth in title
5, chapter 1, article A of this code. (Ord. 2009-09, 2-2-2009)
10-2-7: BROKEN WINDOWS AND LIGHT FIXTURES; BOARDED UP PREMISES:
   A.   Every window, glazed exterior door, exterior transom or exterior
sidelight shall be provided with properly installed glass or other approved
glazing material. In the event of breakage, the owner shall cause the immediate
removal of broken glass from the premises and shall temporarily board up the
affected openings with suitable material to provide protection from the
elements and to prevent entry of insects, birds or animals and to provide
security to occupants or contents of the building.
   B.   Adequate ventilation and artificial lighting shall be provided for all
occupied dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, hotels or motels. Whenever
any exterior openings are found boarded up, it shall be the duty of the
appropriate village official to notify the owner or agent of this requirement
by giving him a period of not more than ten (10) working days in which to
properly replace the broken glass in the dwelling unit, rooming unit, dwelling,
hotel or motel, or said dwelling unit, rooming unit, dwelling, hotel or motel
shall be vacated. This notice shall be given in the manner required by
subsection 10-2-4B of this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or
agent to fail to comply with the order of the village official contained in
such notice.
   C.   Since the presence of boarded up buildings, particularly those where
the boarding is unpainted or applied in an insecure, careless or unpresentable
fashion, invites vandalism and creates a blighting influence which adversely
affects the general welfare of the people of the village, it is hereby required
that all boarding up of exterior openings be accomplished in a neat,
workmanlike manner with not less than one-half inch (1/2") thick, weather
resistant plywood, cut to fit within openings, fastened in place as securely as
possible and suitably coated with an appropriate neutral color blending with or
harmonizing with the exterior colors of the building as inconspicuously as
possible. It shall be the duty of the appropriate village official to notify
the owner or agent of any boarded up dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit,
hotel or motel not complying with the above requirements of the necessity of
compliance by giving him a period of not more than ten (10) working days in
which to replace the broken glass or in which to repair, replace or paint the
boarding. This notice shall be given in the manner required in subsection 10-2-
4B of this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or agent to fail to
comply with the order of the village official contained in such notice. (Ord.
2009-09, 2-2-2009)
10-2-8: EMERGENCY MEASURES:
   A.   When any dwelling unit, rooming unit, dwelling, hotel or motel has
become so damaged by fire, wind or other causes, or has become so unsafe,
unhealthful or unsanitary that, in the opinion of the appropriate village
official, life or health is immediately endangered by the occupation of the
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, hotel or motel, the said village
official is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke without notice any
occupancy permits for such structures, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
units, hotels or motels, and to order and require the occupants to vacate the
same forthwith, and to order the owner or agent to proceed immediately with the
corrective work and repairs required to make the dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming unit, hotel or motel temporarily safe and fit for human habitation,
whether or not a notice of violation has been given as described in this
chapter, and whether or not legal procedures described by ordinances of the
village have been instituted. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to
comply with any emergency order of the village.
   B.   Whenever the appropriate village official finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the health and safety of the
residents or of the public, he may issue an order citing the existence of an
emergency and require immediate action to be taken as deemed necessary to meet
the emergency. Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, such order
shall take effect immediately. (Ord. 2009-09, 2-2-2009)
10-2-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or agent of the same to
occupy premises within the village and permit any of the conditions enumerated
herein, which are declared a nuisance, to exist.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation or other business entity found in
violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day the violation
continues.
   C.   Should a violation of this chapter be found, any occupancy or building
permit issued by the village for the property in violation may be revoked or a
stop work order may be issued by the appropriate administrating official of the
village. (Ord. 2009-09, 2-2-2009)
CHAPTER 3
BUILDING PERMITS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Short Title
10-3-2: Purpose And Intent
10-3-3: Applicability
10-3-4: Submittal Requirements
10-3-5: Building Permit Review Process
10-3-6: Additional Permitting
10-3-7: Expiration Of Building Permit
10-3-8: Responsibility For Damage
10-3-9: Violations And Penalties
10-3-10: Fee Structure
10-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the BUILDING PERMITS ORDINANCE of the Village of
Heyworth. (Ord. 2015-07, 2-5-2015)
10-3-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the Village of Heyworth, including the protection of the citizens
and the preservation of the character and structures of the Village, by
establishing minimum requirements and regulations governing the erection,
movement, reconstruction or alteration of any building or structure. (Ord.
2015-07, 2-5-2015)
10-3-3: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Building Permit Required: A building permit shall be required prior to
commencement of certain demolition or construction related activities which may
include, but is not limited to, the following improvements:
      1.   Demolitions;
      2.   Building additions;
      3.   Any modification of a load bearing wall;
      4.   Porches, decks, and patios;
      5.   Fences, pergolas, and gazebos;
      6.   Pools and hot tubs (excluding wading/kiddie pools);
      7.   Accessory structures fifty (50) square feet or more;
      8.   Solar panel installations
      9.   Roof/Shingle installations or replacements; or
      10.   All structures intended for occupancy.
   B.   Building Permit Not Required: A building permit is not required, but
may be issued at no charge if requested by the owner, for the following
activities:
      1.   Interior remodeling, plumbing or electrical alterations that are
less than 50% of the fair market value of the property;
      2.   Residing or replacement of windows or doors that do not require
enlargement of the opening size;
      3.   Sheds without a permanent foundation and less than fifty (50) square
feet;
      4.   Items that are maintenance in nature and not otherwise specified as
requiring a building permit.
(Ord. 2015-07, 2-5-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-20, 4-18-2024)
10-3-4: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   In order for a building permit to be issued, the owner/applicant shall
submit the completed "Building Permit & Plan Examination Application" and any
applicable fees to the Village of Heyworth. Refer to section
10-3-10 of this chapter for the fee structure. Checks shall be made payable to
the "Village of Heyworth".
   B.   Plans or plans and specifications shall be submitted for all structures
intended for occupancy. (Ord. 2015-07, 2-5-2015)
10-3-5: BUILDING PERMIT REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Administration: The designated administrating official shall administer
the review of the "Building Permit & Plan Examination Application" and any
accompanying plans and specifications. (Ord. 2015-07, 2-5-2015)
   B.   Engineering Review: The Village Engineer shall review plans for
improvements in areas zoned Commercial or Industrial or for residential multi-
family structures of five (5) or more units. The Village Engineer is not
responsible for performing surveys or locating or determining lot dimensions
for applicants. (Ord. 2016-38, 9-15-2016)
   C.   Building Code Compliance Review: All plans and specifications shall be
reviewed for compliance with the building regulations established by chapter 1
of this title by the administrating official, or in the event that an
administrating official is not designated, a copy of the plans and
specifications shall be maintained in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   D.   Processing Request: Review of the "Building Permit & Plan Examination
Application" and any accompanying plans and specifications shall be completed
within fourteen (14) calendar days of their receipt.
      1.   All applicants are responsible for adhering to any applicable
restrictive covenants, easements, or any other applicable restriction,
regulation, or law affiliated with the property.
   E.   Display Of Approved Permits: Approved building permits shall be
displayed in a location on the construction site that is visible from the
street.
   F.   Inspection/Reinspection: The administrating official is authorized and
empowered to enter upon any premises for the purpose of inspecting the same for
compliance with the building regulations established by provisions of this
title. After completion of the structure requested to be constructed with the
permit, the owner or applicant shall notify the administrating official for
final inspection. Upon final inspection, if the premises and structure are
constructed in compliance with the permit, the administration official shall
provide a certificate of compliance, also referred to as a use permit. If the
premises is found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
the owner of the property shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
section
10-3-9 of this chapter. If the premises are found to be in violation, the
administrating official may require reinspection for verification of compliance
after such violations are found. If the premises are found to be in violation
after reinspection and further reinspection is necessary to verify compliance,
each reinspection after the first reinspection shall be at a charge of twenty-
five dollars ($25.00) per reinspection. Such reinspection charge shall be due
prior to issuance of a use or occupancy permit.
   G.   Compliance: Any approved building permit or approval after inspection
by the Village does not alleviate compliance of any law or give affirmation of
compliance with any law related to Building Codes or any other item relevant to
the building permit.
   H.   Monthly Reports: At the first regularly scheduled Board meeting of
every month, the Administrative Officer shall provide a monthly report to the
Board of Trustees of all building permits issued by the Village.
(Ord. 2015-07, 2-5-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-20, 4-18-2024)
10-3-6: ADDITIONAL PERMITTING:
   A.   Excavation/Utility/Curb Cut: If applicable, the owner/applicant shall
apply for the "Excavation/Utility/Curb Cut Permit Application" and receive the
necessary permits prior to the commencement of construction. Refer to chapter 4
of this title for the requirements of excavation/utility/curb cut permits.
   B.   Permit For Occupancy: Occupancy of any structure within the Village
limits shall be prohibited unless a permit for occupancy has been applied for
and issued by the Village of Heyworth. Refer to chapter 5 of this title for the
requirements of occupancy permits.
   C.   Additional Requirements: It is the responsibility of the owner to
satisfy any additional permitting requirements of the Village of Heyworth and
of other relevant permitting authorities and to pay all costs associated with
obtaining the necessary approvals to construct the proposed improvements. (Ord.
2015-07, 2-5-2015)
10-3-7: EXPIRATION OF BUILDING PERMIT:
Building permits shall expire at the end of one year or as noted on the permit
unless work has not begun within six (6) months of issuance or if work is
suspended or abandoned, then building permits shall expire six (6) months from
the date of issuance if work has not yet begun or six (6) months from the date
that work is suspended or abandoned if the one year expiration period has not
or will not have elapsed from the date of issuance at the expiration of the six
(6) months. A six (6) month extension of a permit may be granted for an
additional fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2015-07, 2-5-2015)
10-3-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE:
The owner shall be responsible for all contractors that are performing
construction activities on subject property and any damage that might be caused
to the streets, curb and gutters, sidewalks, and line and grade of ditches and
sewer. The owner shall be responsible to repair any damages to the satisfaction
of the Village of Heyworth. If the owner has not completed the repair within
three (3) months after notice to repair has been issued, the Village of
Heyworth may complete the repair at the expense of the property owner. (Ord.
2015-07, 2-5-2015)
10-3-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly or
with reckless disregard for the truth or veracity make any false statement or
statements or provide inaccurate plans and specifications in the "Building
Permit & Plan Examination Application". If a permit is issued in reliance upon
an inaccurate "Building Permit & Plan Examination Application" the appropriate
administrating official may issue a stop work order and/or revoke the building
permit issued.
   B.   In case of a violation of any provision of this chapter, the applicable
code official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or
in equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation,
or to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy or
construction of the structure by issuance of a stop work order, revocation of
building permit or any other means permitted by law. The Village may take
action to abate any violation, and any costs incurred in abating such
violations may be charged against the real estate upon which such abatement
occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   C.   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day upon
which a violation occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2015-07, 2-5-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-20, 4-18-2024)
10-3-10: FEE STRUCTURE:
   A.   Basis For Fees: The fees assessed for building permits shall be
determined in accordance with the following:
      1.   The square footage of the improvements;
      2.   The applicability of plan review for a permit application. Refer to
section
10-3-5 of this chapter;
      3.   Whether or not certain Village offices established for the purpose
of plan review and/or inspection are currently vacant or filled. Refer to
subsections
10-3-5B, C, and F of this chapter; and
      4.   The valuation of the improvements. If the valuation of the
improvements is less than or equal to five hundred dollars ($500.00), the "plan
review fee" and/or the "inspection fee" may be waived.
   B.   Fee Timeline: The various building permit fees shall be due in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   The "plan review fee", if applicable, shall be due at the time that
plans are submitted. Refer to subsections
10-3-5B and C of this chapter for applicability.
      2.   The "permit fee" shall be due when the permit application/plans have
been approved and before a permit is issued.
      3.   The "inspection fee", if applicable, shall be due when the permit
application/plans have been approved and before a permit is issued. Refer to
subsection
10-3-5F of this chapter for applicability.
   C.   Fee Structure:
                    Plan Review Fee (If Applicable)     Inspection Fee (If
Activity Permit Fee Building Code      Village Engineer Applicable)
                    Compliance Officer
                               Plan Review Fee (If
                               Applicable)                    Inspection Fee
Activity            Permit Fee Building Code                  (If Applicable)
                               Compliance    Village Engineer
                               Officer
New construction,
additions, and
modifications -
square footage of
improvements:
 1,499 or less     $75.00     See note 1    $300.00          See note 1
 1,500 to 2,499    75.00      $150.00       300.00           $150.00
 2,500 to 2,999    75.00      250.00        300.00           250.00
 3,000 to 3,499    75.00      300.00        300.00           300.00
 3,500 to 3,999    75.00      350.00        300.00           350.00
 4,000 to 4,499    75.00      400.00        300.00           400.00
 4,500 to 4,999    75.00      450.00        300.00           450.00
 5,000 to 9,999    75.00      See note 1    500.00           See note 1
 10,000 to 19,999  75.00      See note 1    750.00           See note 1
 20,000 to 29,999  75.00      See note 1    1,000.00         See note 1
 30,000 to 39,999  75.00      See note 1    1,250.00         See note 1
 40,000 to 49,999  75.00      See note 1    1,500.00         See note 1
 50,000 to 59,999  75.00      See note 1    1,750.00         See note 1
 60,000 to 69,999  75.00      See note 1    2,000.00         See note 1
 70,000 to 79,999  75.00      See note 1    2,250.00         See note 1
 80,000 to 89,999  75.00      See note 1    2,500.00         See note 1
 90,000 to 99,999  75.00      See note 1    2,750.00         See note 1
 100,000 or more   75.00      See note 1    3,000.00         See note 1
Fixed fee permit
costs:
  Accessory
 structures        75.00      n/a           n/a              n/a
  (garages, sheds,
  etc.)
 Building          50.00      n/a           n/a              n/a
  demolitions
  Fences, and
  patios, roof
 replacement or    25.00      n/a           n/a              n/a
  reshingling,
  solar panel
  installations
 Pools and hot     75.00      n/a           n/a              n/a
  tubs
  Porches (open
 air), decks,      75.00      n/a           n/a              n/a
  pergolas, and
  gazebos
  Decks and gazebos
 (multi-tiered or  75.00      See note 1    n/a              See Note 1
  greater than 200
  sq. ft.
  Structures
 Relocation/       200.00     n/a           n/a              200.00
  Moving
 
Note:
    1.    The fee imposed shall be determined by multiplying the square footage
of the improvements by $0.10 (i.e., 500 square foot project x $0.10 = $50.00).
   D.   Refunds: Permit fees may be refundable subject to the following
circumstances:
      1.   There shall be no refunds on permit (application) fees.
      2.   Code review fees are refundable if the request for refund is prior
to the start of the code review process.
      3.   Fees for water meters, water/sewer tap fees, and onsite inspections
are refundable if the project is cancelled prior to the start of construction.
      4.   Once a permit is cancelled, a new permit must be applied for and
issued with new fees paid in order to restart the project.
   All requests for refunds must be made in writing to the Village code
official. Payments made by cash or check shall be refunded via check made to
the applicant after the next regular check run of the Village. Payments made by
credit card shall have any applicable refund made to the card less any card
processing fees. (Ord. 2015-07, 2-5-2015; amd. Ord. 2024-20, 4-18-2024; Ord.
2025-04, 1-23-2025)
CHAPTER 4
EXCAVATION/UTILITY/CURB CUT PERMITS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Short Title
10-4-2: Purpose And Intent
10-4-3: Permits Required
10-4-4: Submittal Requirements
10-4-5: Review Process
10-4-6: Additional Permits
10-4-7: Expiration Of Permit; Extensions
10-4-8: Responsibility For Damage
10-4-9: Fees
10-4-10: Violations; Penalties
10-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the EXCAVATION/UTILITY/CURB CUT PERMITS
ORDINANCE of the village. (Ord. 2009-03, 1-20-2009)
10-4-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the village, including the protection of the citizens and the
infrastructures of the village by establishing minimum requirements and
regulations governing the excavation of land, connections to the public water
and sewer systems, and cutting, alteration or removal of curbs, sidewalks and
streets located in village rights of way. (Ord. 2009-03, 1-20-2009)
10-4-3: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Excavation Permit; Exceptions: An excavation permit shall be required
prior to commencement of all demolition or construction related activities
except for the following activities:
      1.   Excavation or fill less than fifty (50) cubic yards, with less than
a four foot (4') cut and disturbing less than five thousand (5,000) square feet
on the site.
      2.   Any interior remodeling.
      3.   Additions, remodeling, or accessory structures smaller than five
hundred (500) square feet which disturb less than two thousand (2,000) square
feet on the site.
   B.   Utility Permit: A utility permit shall be required prior to any
connection of a private water service or sanitary sewer service to a public
water main or a public sewer main. See sections
9-1-4 and
9-4-13 of this code for the requirements of utility permits.
   C.   Curb Cut Permit: A curb cut permit shall be required prior to any cut
or removal of public curb and gutter, sidewalk, or street. Replacement of
sidewalk and street pavement by the village shall be at the applicant's/owner's
expense per the fee structure set out in section
10-4-9 of this chapter. Alternatively, the applicant/owner may replace the
sidewalk and street pavement under village supervision; however, the inspection
fee set out in section
10-4-9 of this chapter still applies. (Ord. 2009-03, 1-20-2009)
10-4-4: SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   To apply for an excavation/utility/curb cut permit, the owner/applicant
shall submit the completed excavation/utility/curb cut permit application and
any applicable fees to the village. See section
10-4-9 of this chapter for the fee structure. Checks shall be made payable to
the "Village of Heyworth".
   B.   As a requisite for approval of the excavation/utility/curb cut permit,
a sketch of the improvements or plans and specifications shall be submitted for
review. If a building permit is applied for concurrently with the excavation/
utility/curb cut permit application, the owner/applicant need not resubmit any
plans or sketches submitted as part of that application. (Ord. 2009-03, 1-20-
2009)
10-4-5: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Administration: The superintendent of public works shall administer the
review of the excavation/utility/curb cut permit application and any
accompanying plans and specifications.
   B.   Engineer Review: The village engineer may, at the request of the
superintendent of public works, review sketches, plans, and/or specifications
for conformance of proposed work with the village design standards enumerated
elsewhere in this code. Otherwise, the review of all sketches, plans, and
specifications shall be performed by the village superintendent of public
works.
   C.   Processing Request: Review of the excavation/utility/curb cut permit
application and any accompanying plans and specifications shall be completed
within fourteen (14) calendar days of their receipt.
   D.   Inspection: It is the responsibility of the owner and/or applicant to
schedule all required inspections with the superintendent of public works at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to commencing the permitted work. (Ord.
2009-03, 1-20-2009)
10-4-6: ADDITIONAL PERMITS:
   A.   Occupancy Permit: Occupancy of any structure within the village limits
shall be prohibited unless a permit for occupancy has been applied for and
issued by the village. See chapter 5 of this title for the requirements for
permits for occupancy.
   B.   Additional Requirements: It is the responsibility of the owner and/or
applicant to satisfy any additional permitting requirements of the village and
of other relevant permitting authorities and to pay all costs associated with
obtaining the necessary approvals to construct the proposed improvements. (Ord.
2009-03, 1-20-2009)
10-4-7: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT; EXTENSIONS:
Excavation/utility/curb cut permits shall expire at the end of one year or as
noted on the permit unless work has not begun within six (6) months of
issuance, or if work is suspended or abandoned, then the excavation/utility/
curb cut permits shall expire six (6) months from the date of issuance if work
has not yet begun or six (6) months from the date that work is suspended or
abandoned if the one year expiration period has not or will not have elapsed
from the date of issuance at the expiration of the six (6) months. A six (6)
month extension of a permit may be granted for an additional fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2009-03, 1-20-2009)
10-4-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE:
The owner shall be responsible for all contractors that are performing
construction activities on subject property and any damage that might be caused
to the streets, curb and gutters, sidewalks, and line and grade of ditches and
sewer. The owner shall be liable for the repair to the satisfaction of the
village. If the owner has not completed the repair in a timely manner, the
village may complete the repair at the expense of the property owner. (Ord.
2009-03, 1-20-2009)
10-4-9: FEES:
   A.   Fee Time Line: All permit fees shall be due when the permit
application/plans have been approved.
   B.   Fee Structure:
 
Permit                     Inspection Fee Connection Fee
Excavation                    --          --
Curb cut:                                 
Curb cut                   $50.00          
     Sidewalk replacem50.00          $15.00/square yard (if performed by
                                          the village)
    Street cut replacem50.00          $15.00/square yard (if performed by
                                          the village)
Utility                    As stated in section
                           9-4-13 of this code
 
(Ord. 2009-03, 1-20-2009)
10-4-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly or
with reckless disregard for the truth or veracity make any false statement or
statements in the excavation/utility/curb cut permit application.
   B.   In case of a violation of any provision of this chapter, the applicable
code official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or
in equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation,
or to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the
structure. The village may take action to abate any violation, and any costs
incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real estate upon
which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   C.   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day upon
which a violation occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2009-03, 1-20-2009)
CHAPTER 5
OCCUPANCY PERMITS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Short Title
10-5-2: Purpose And Intent
10-5-3: Definitions
10-5-4: Permit Required; Exemptions
10-5-5: Types Of Permits
10-5-6: Application And Fees
10-5-7: Administration And Review Process
10-5-8: Violations; Penalties
10-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the OCCUPANCY PERMITS ORDINANCE of the village.
(Ord. 2009-01, 1-20-2009)
10-5-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, welfare and safety
of the citizens of the village by requiring structures fit or used for
occupancy to be in compliance with the requirements and standards as set forth
in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-01, 1-20-2009)
10-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
OCCUPANCY: Any structure used by any person for living, sleeping, cooking,
eating in or having possession or use of a dwelling unit or rooming unit or any
structure used for industrial or commercial purposes.
OCCUPANCY PERMIT: The certificate or permit, by whatever name denominated,
which the village, under its authority to regulate the construction of
buildings, issues as evidence that there has been compliance with all
applicable requirements, and such permit is required before any new,
reconstructed or remodeled building may be lawfully occupied. (Ord. 2009-01, 1-
20-2009; amd. Ord. 2009-120, 11-2-2009)
10-5-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or any other entity to
occupy, or for any owner or agent thereof to permit the occupancy of, any
building or structure or addition thereto, or part thereof, for any purpose
unless and until an occupancy permit, which shall state that the occupancy
complies with one of the types of occupancy permit provisions of this chapter,
is issued. This section shall not apply to any occupancy or use of structures
in existence prior to February 1, 2009. (Ord. 2009-120, 11-2-2009)
10-5-5: TYPES OF PERMITS:
   A.   Certificate Of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy may only be issued
if the following requirements have been met:
      1.   The structure has been erected or structurally altered in
conformance with the provisions of this code;
      2.   The structure has been erected or structurally altered in
conformance with all applicable health and building laws;
      3.   The structure has been erected or structurally altered in
conformance with the building permit issued for the structure;
      4.   The lot on which the structure occupies has been approved, filed and
recorded in accordance with the requirements of this code;
      5.   The structure is connected to an appropriate potable or public water
system;
      6.   The structure is connected to an appropriate septic or public sewer
system;
      7.   Final grading has been completed in accordance with the approved
plat;
      8.   Lot areas, including areas between the sidewalks and curbs, have
been stabilized by seeding and mulching;
      9.   A public or private road surface allowing for ingress and egress to
the property and in compliance with this code has been completed and approved
by the village; and
      10.   A driveway surface has been constructed and completed in compliance
with this code.
   B.   Individual Occupancy Permit: An individual occupancy permit may be
issued to multi-tenant commercial buildings or multi-family residential
buildings on a store by store or unit by unit basis if the individual store or
unit has met all the requirements for the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy, except for the requirements of final grading and stabilization of
lot areas by seeding and mulching; however, no such permit shall be issued
unless work on portions of such commercial buildings or residential buildings
has advanced to the point that the individuals using the portions of such
buildings for which the certificates are to be issued will not be endangered by
construction in progress and the building is safe for the area to be occupied.
An individual occupancy permit shall only be valid for six (6) months.
   C.   Temporary Occupancy Permit:
      1.   A temporary occupancy permit may be issued when adverse weather
conditions do not permit for compliance of all of the requirements for the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy. The minimum requirements that must be
met for a temporary occupancy permit to be issued are:
         a.   The structure has substantially been erected or structurally
altered in conformance with the provisions of this code;
         b.   The structure has substantially been erected or structurally
altered in conformance with all applicable health and building laws;
         c.   The structure has substantially been erected or structurally
altered in conformance with the building permit issued for the structure;
         d.   The structure is connected to an appropriate potable or public
water system;
         e.   The structure is connected to an appropriate septic or public
sewer system; and
         f.   A public or private road surface allowing for ingress and egress
to the property and in compliance with this code has been completed and
approved by the village.
      2.   Application for a temporary occupancy permit shall include a
statement covering the items of work to be completed, denoting the reasons for
which the temporary occupancy permit is requested, and certifying that the work
can and will be completed within the duration of the temporary occupancy
permit. A temporary certificate of occupancy shall only be valid for six (6)
months. (Ord. 2009-01, 1-20-2009)
10-5-6: APPLICATION AND FEES:
   A.   Application: In order for a certificate of occupancy or occupancy
permit to be issued, the owner/applicant must submit a completed occupancy
permit application**** and any applicable fees to the village.
   B.   Fees: There shall be a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each type of
certificate of occupancy issued. Fees shall be submitted along with the
completed occupancy permit application. Checks shall be made payable to the
“Village of Heyworth”.
   C.   Reinspection Fee: Should a reinspection fee be imposed pursuant to
Section
10-3-5 of the Building Permit Ordinance in the Village Code, such fee shall be
due prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 2009-01, 1-20-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-21, 4-18-2024)
10-5-7: ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Administration: The designated administrating official shall administer
the review of the "occupancy permit application" and inspect the applicable
structure and property to determine if the structure and property are in
compliance with this code. (Ord. 2010-38, 10-4-2010)
   B.   Review Process And Issuance Of Permit: Review of the occupancy permit
application and any accompanying plans and specifications shall be completed
within fourteen (14) calendar days of their receipt. Upon review of the
occupancy permit application and applicable structure and property, the
applicable administrating officer shall either: 1) issue the applicable
occupancy permit; or 2) deny the request for occupancy in writing stating the
reason(s) for the denial. If a request for issuance of an occupancy permit is
denied, the applicant/owner may submit a new occupancy permit application and
applicable fees after compliance has been made. (Ord. 2009-01, 1-20-2009)
   C.   Record Of Certificates: A record of all certificates or permits shall
be kept on file in the office of the village clerk, and copies shall be
furnished, upon request, to any persons having a proprietary or tenancy
interest in the building affected. (Ord. 2010-38, 10-4-2010)
10-5-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly or
with reckless disregard for the truth or veracity make any false statement or
statements in the occupancy permit application. If a permit is issued in
reliance upon an inaccurate occupancy permit application, the appropriate
administrating official may revoke the occupancy permit issued and post a sign
at the location stating “occupancy prohibited”.
   B.   In case of a violation of any provision of this chapter, the applicable
code official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or
in equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation,
or to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the
structure. The village may take action to abate any violation, and any costs
incurred in abating such violation may be charged against the real estate upon
which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   C.   Any person who violate(s) any of the provisions of this chapter, upon
being found guilty, shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day upon which a violation occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 2009-01, 1-20-2009; amd. Ord. 2024-21, 4-18-2024)
CHAPTER 6
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Short Title
10-6-2: Purpose And Intent
10-6-3: Village Policy
10-6-4: Administration And Enforcement
10-6-5: Interpretation Of Provisions
10-6-6: Application Of Provisions
10-6-7: Exemptions
10-6-8: Definitions
10-6-9: Drainage System Components
10-6-10: Drainage Plans
10-6-11: Design Requirements
10-6-11-1: General Design Methods And Standards
10-6-11-2: Stormwater Detention
10-6-11-3: Dry Bottom Stormwater Storage Areas
10-6-11-4: Wet Bottom Stormwater Storage Areas
10-6-11-5: Alternative Stormwater Storage Areas
10-6-12: Maintenance Of Privately Owned Facilities
10-6-13: Inspections
10-6-14: Dry Weather Water Outlets
10-6-15: Variances
10-6-16: Appeals
10-6-17: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-6-18: Penalties
10-6-19: Exhibits
10-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
ORDINANCE of the village. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to control the transportation
or movement of stormwater so as to reduce the damage to property; prevent
injury to persons and property; protect the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the community; and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources.
   B.   Intent: The intent of this chapter is to require temporary storage of
stormwater runoff, to control the rate of release of stormwater runoff, to
provide for adequate drainage of development sites and surrounding areas, and
to protect existing agricultural drainage systems. Further, it is intended that
this chapter complement and coordinate with the village subdivision regulations
1 . (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. Title 12 of this code.
10-6-3: VILLAGE POLICY:
This chapter establishes a stormwater management policy for the future control
of stormwater runoff within the jurisdictional limits of the village.
Accordingly, a combination of temporary storage and the controlled release of
stormwater runoff shall generally be required for all new commercial and
industrial developments, residential subdivisions, planned unit developments,
and any redevelopment or other new construction, further defined in sections
10-6-5 and
10-6-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility
of the village board of trustees. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-5: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   More Restrictive Provisions Apply: When this chapter imposes a greater
restriction than that imposed or required by the provisions of existing
ordinances or rules and regulations, this chapter shall control. When the
provisions of existing ordinances or rules and regulations impose greater
restrictions than those imposed or required by this chapter, they shall
control.
   B.   Retroactivity:
      1.   The adoption of this chapter, as herein provided, shall not operate
to amend, modify or otherwise alter any current development (approved final
plat with approved construction plans) or previously approved permits for
development, absent resubmittal of applications or the submittal of proposed
amendments to permits or applications and the full and complete review, as
herein provided, for determination of the application of the provisions within
this chapter.
      2.   All work being performed under previously issued permits must be
performed in conformance with the terms and provisions of each permit, and
failure to so perform shall continue to give cause for the initiation of
enforcement, prosecution or other pursuit of remedy against persons responsible
for the violation of the provisions of the permit. Notwithstanding the adoption
of this chapter, enforcement and such other actions as may be necessary in
order to compel compliance with the permit provisions are hereby directed and
authorized, and the ordinances upon which such actions are based, are continued
in full force and effect as applied upon the provisions of any heretofore
issued permit. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-6: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall apply to the following developments:
      1.   All new or expanded subdivisions which require the approval of the
village pursuant to the provisions of the village subdivision regulations, as
amended.
      2.   Generally, any new construction within the village area of zoning
jurisdiction, pursuant to the provisions of the village zoning ordinance, that
increases the amount of impervious area of the lot or parcel of land upon which
it is constructed. See section
10-6-7 of this chapter.
      3.   Except as may otherwise be provided herein, all structures erected
hereafter, all uses of land or structures established hereafter, all
improvements to watercourses, all structural alterations or relocation of
existing structures occurring hereafter, and all enlargements of or additions
to existing uses which increase the amount of impervious area occurring
hereafter shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Whenever storage and controlled release of stormwater is required for
existing developed parcels, and where improvements upon such parcels were
constructed prior to February 2, 2009, such storage and the required controlled
release rate shall apply to the net increase in the amount of runoff since
February 2, 2009.
   C.   Any area proposed for development, consisting of a tract of land of one
or more acres in common ownership or interest and upon which phased development
is proposed, shall be required to provide a combination of storage and
controlled release of stormwater runoff for future development of the entire
tract.
   D.   Where phased development is proposed, the owner may construct, after
receiving site specific approval from the village board of trustees, one
stormwater detention facility which is built larger than initially needed in
order to anticipate subsequent phases of development and/or is designed to be
enlarged at later dates as additional portions of the overall site are
developed. Phased construction shall include implementation of sufficient and
enforceable covenants upon the land to properly document the phased
implementation. The form of covenant shall be approved by the village attorney,
and the substance of the covenant shall reflect the approved overall stormwater
detention plan for the site.
   E.   Except as provided in section
10-6-7 of this chapter, no building permit may be issued; no subdivision or
plat of land may be approved or recorded; no mobile home, independent travel
trailer, or recreational travel trailer park permit may be issued; no planned
unit development may be approved; no watercourse, stormwater drainage system,
storm sewer, or stormwater control structure may be constructed; and no paved
or compacted area designed to be used for loading, open storage, or the parking
or movement of vehicles may be constructed without first having complied with
the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   F.   Any property or development falling within the scope of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to review by the village engineer in order to
establish and determine, in the opinion of the village engineer, that no
adverse consequences will arise downstream as a result of construction of
improvements under the sought after permit. Any property located within
"floodplain areas", as defined in the flood hazard area development ordinance
of the village 1 , shall be governed by such ordinance in the event of and to
the extent of conflict with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-
2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 8 of this title.
10-6-7: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of sections
10-6-9 through
10-6-13 shall not apply to the following developments:
      1.   Any development that contains less than fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet of impervious surface area or less than twenty five percent (25%)
impervious surface area, whichever is less; or
      2.   Any single-family residential or two-family residential development
on any lot or parcel of land; or
      3.   Modification of single-family residential or two-family residential
structures which will continue to be used as single-family or two-family
dwellings; or
      4.   Modification of existing structures or appurtenances, other than
single-family dwellings or two-family dwellings, which does not increase the
amount of impervious area of the lot or parcel upon which they are constructed;
or
      5.   Traditional agricultural land uses; or
      6.   Improvement of existing roadways which does not increase the number
of traffic lanes in the typical cross section of the roadway.
   B.   Where a subdivision plat or a planned unit development involves new
lots which are more than one acre in size that are zoned for commercial or
industrial purposes, the developer/owner may provide for storage and controlled
release of stormwater runoff for the developed lots by sufficient and
enforceable covenant upon the individual lots. The covenant shall require
construction of on site stormwater detention facilities upon each lot at the
time of subsequent development of that lot. The form of covenant shall be
approved by the village attorney, and the substance of the covenant shall
require construction of on site stormwater runoff storage and controlled
release of stormwater runoff from each lot in a manner approved by the village
engineer and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-10,
2-2-2009; Ord. 2021-43, 7-15-2021)
10-6-8: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted. Words
not defined shall be interpreted in accordance with the definitions contained
in "Webster's New Collegiate Dictionary", latest edition.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The board of trustees of the village of Heyworth.
CAPACITY OF A STORMWATER DETENTION FACILITY: The maximum volume that can be
stored by a stormwater detention facility without causing damage to the public
or encroachment upon private property. The "capacity of a stormwater detention
facility" is generally determined utilizing average end area or similar volume
calculation methods.
CAPACITY OF A STORMWATER DRAINAGE FACILITY: The maximum flow at atmospheric
pressure that can be conveyed by the facility without causing damage to the
public or encroachment upon private property. The "capacity of a stormwater
drainage facility" is determined utilizing "Mannings Equation" or similar
approved formula.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse of perceptible extent which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
line between two (2) bodies of water. A "channel" has a definite bed and banks
which serve to confine the water.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A facility constructed to regulate the volume and rate of
stormwater that is released during a specific length of time.
CULVERT: A closed conduit for the passage of surface drainage water under a
roadway, railroad, or other surface impediment.
DETENTION STORAGE: Temporary detention or storage of stormwater in storage
basins, on rooftops, in parking lots, schoolyards, parks, open space, lakes,
ponds, or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with the
rate of drainage therefrom regulated by appropriately installed devices.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, construction of or substantial improvements to
buildings or other structures, the placement of mobile homes, paving, mining,
filling, or other similar activities.
DISCHARGE: The rate of outflow of water from a stormwater drainage or
stormwater detention facility.
DRAINAGE AREA: The area from which water is carried off by a drainage system; a
watershed or catchment area above a given point.
DRAINAGE EASEMENT: Authorization by a property owner allowing use of a
designated portion of his/her property by others for drainage purposes.
DRY BOTTOM STORMWATER DETENTION BASIN: A facility that is designed to be
normally dry and which accumulates stormwater runoff only during periods when
the restricted stormwater runoff release rate is less than the stormwater
inflow rate.
DRY WEATHER WATER OUTLET: An outlet from a sump pump, footing tile, field tile,
or other source which may discharge at times other than during periods of
rainfall and pursuant to direct surface runoff.
EXCESS STORMWATER PASSAGEWAY: A channel formed on the surface of the soil to
carry excess stormwater runoff through a specific area from dominant to
servient land areas.
EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of stormwater runoff which exceeds the
transportation capacity of storm sewers, swales, ditches or natural drainage
channels serving a specific watershed.
FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation of all locations delineating the maximum level
of high waters for a flood of a given return period.
FLOODPLAIN: The special flood hazard lands adjoining a watercourse, the surface
elevation of which is lower than the flood elevation and which are subject to
periodic inundation during floods.
FLOODWAY: A channel of a watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplain which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the design
flood.
GRADE: The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, etc., or natural
ground surface, usually expressed in terms of the percentage the vertical rise
(or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
ILLINOIS URBAN MANUAL: "A Technical Manual Designed For Urban Ecosystem
Protection And Enhancement", prepared by the United States department of
agriculture (USDA) natural resources conservation service, latest edition.
IMPERMEABLE: A term applied to material through which water cannot pass.
IMPERVIOUS: A term applied to material through which water cannot pass, or
through which water passes with great difficulty or at a very slow rate.
INLET: An opening into a storm sewer system for the entrance of surface storm
runoff, more completely described as a "storm sewer inlet".
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Water flow by gravity in channels formed by the true surface
topography of the earth prior to changes made by the efforts of man.
NATURAL DRAINAGE CONDITION: The situation whereby water flows by gravity in
channels formed by the true surface topography of the earth prior to changes
made by the efforts of man or as defined by Illinois Compiled Statutes.
NATURAL SAFE STORMWATER DRAINAGE CAPACITY: The quantity of stormwater runoff
that can be transported by means of a channel, passage, conduit, tube, duct, or
combination thereof, in such a manner that the elevation of the water does not
rise significantly above the level of the adjacent soil surface and cause
damage or encroachment upon public or private property. For the purposes of
this chapter, it is presumed that the maximum "natural safe stormwater drainage
capacity" for downstream stormwater drainage systems is the capacity required
to carry the rate of stormwater runoff from a 5-year return period storm prior
to the effective date hereof.
OWNER: The record titleholder or a beneficiary of a land trust which is the
record titleholder, and includes singular or plural; if the owner is other than
an individual, the term includes beneficiaries, agents, shareholders, officers
and directors, partnerships, associations, firms, trusts, clubs, companies, or
corporations.
PEAK FLOW: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel or
conduit resulting from a predetermined storm or flood.
PERSON: An individual, public or private corporation, government, partnership,
or unincorporated association.
POSITIVE GRAVITY OUTLET: A term used to describe the drainage of an area in a
manner that will ensure complete removal of all surface water by means of
gravity.
RECOGNIZED AGENCY: A governmental unit or agency which has statistically and
consistently examined local, climatic, and geologic conditions and maintained
records as they apply to stormwater runoff, e.g., national weather service,
University Of Illinois engineering experiment station, and the Illinois state
water survey.
RETENTION BASIN: A structure or feature designed to retain stormwater over a
period of time, with its release being positively controlled over a longer
period of time than a typical stormwater "detention" storage facility.
RETURN PERIOD: The average interval of time within which a given rainfall event
will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a "return period" of fifty
(50) years has a two percent (2%) probability of being equaled or exceeded in
any one year.
RUNOFF COEFFICIENT: A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm sewer system to the total amount of
rain falling. For example, a coefficient of 0.50 implies that fifty percent
(50%) of the rain falling on a given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: All means, natural or manmade, used for conducting
stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final outlet,
including, but not limited to, any of the following: conduits, storm sewers,
swales, canals, channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets and pumping
stations.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The water that results from precipitation which is not
absorbed by soil or plant material, which does not evaporate and which flows
over the surface of the ground or is collected in channels, conduits or ponds.
STORMWATER RUNOFF RELEASE RATE: The rate at which stormwater runoff is released
from dominant to servient land.
STORMWATER STORAGE AREA: An area designated to temporarily accumulate excess
stormwater.
STRUCTURE: Anything which is constructed or erected with a fixed location on
the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, "structures" include buildings, fences, signs, mobile
homes, swimming pools, and walls.
TIME OF CONCENTRATION: The time required for stormwater runoff from the
remotest part of the drainage basin to reach the point being considered.
Minimum "time of concentration" required for design of drainage facilities
shall be fifteen (15) minutes.
TRADITIONAL AGRICULTURAL USES: Uses commonly classed as agricultural or
horticultural, including forestry, crop farming, truck gardening, wholesale
nursery operations, animal husbandry, the operation of any machinery or
vehicles incidental to said uses, and the construction of a single- family
dwelling and other farm structures incidental to and typically associated with
said uses. The term does not include commercial feedlots, commercial grain
storage/processing facilities or other similar agriculturally related
commercial and industrial land uses.
TRIBUTARY WATERSHED: The entire catchment area that contributes stormwater
runoff to a given point.
VILLAGE: The village of Heyworth, McLean County, Illinois.
WATERCOURSE: Any stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, slough, gulch, reservoir, lake, pond or natural or manmade
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff and floodwaters flow either
regularly or intermittently.
WET BOTTOM STORMWATER STORAGE AREA: A facility that contains a body of water
and which accumulates excess stormwater during periods when the restricted
stormwater runoff release rate is less than the stormwater inflow rate. (Ord.
2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-9: DRAINAGE SYSTEM COMPONENTS:
   A.   Minor Drainage System Components: The minor drainage system components
shall consist of storm sewers, street gutters, small open channels, and swales
designed to store and convey the peak rate of runoff from the 5-year return
period precipitation event of critical duration, as determined utilizing the
Illinois state water survey bulletin 70, and shall generally conform to the
requirements of the village subdivision ordinance.
   B.   Major Drainage Components: The major drainage components, such as open
ditches and large surface swales draining forty (40) acres or more in the area,
shall be designed to store and convey stormwater flows beyond the capacity of
the minor drainage components. They shall be designed to convey the peak rate
of runoff from the 100-year return period precipitation event.
   C.   Excess Stormwater Passageways:
      1.   An excess stormwater passageway shall be provided for the floodplain
of all natural watercourses and such manmade watercourses and storm drainage
systems as the village engineer may direct, which shall have adequate capacity
to convey the excess stormwater runoff from the tributary watershed. The
capacity of this excess stormwater passageway shall be adequate to transport
the peak rate of runoff from the 100-year return period storm, assuming all
upstream areas are fully developed for uses specifically permitted by existing
zoning, and antecedent rainfall in the tributary watershed is average (e.g.,
antecedent moisture condition II).
      2.   No building structures shall be constructed within this passageway;
however, streets, parking lots, playgrounds, park areas, pedestrian walkways,
open green space, and utility and sewer easements may be considered compatible
uses. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-10: DRAINAGE PLANS:
Once it is determined that a development is subject to the provisions of this
chapter, the owner shall submit a drainage plan containing the following
information, to ensure that the provisions of this chapter are met. The
submittal shall include sufficient information to evaluate the environmental
characteristics of the property, the potential adverse impacts of the
development on water resources, both on site and downstream, and the
effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan in managing stormwater runoff. The
materials submitted shall be as follows:
   A.   Topographic Map: A topographic survey of the property with one foot
(1') contour intervals meeting national map accuracy standards under existing
and proposed conditions, and areas upstream and downstream, as necessary, in
the opinion of the village engineer, to determine off site impacts of the
proposed drainage plan. Proposed spot elevations at lot corners, at building
sites, along pavement centerlines, along drainage swales and at other relevant
locations may be provided in lieu of proposed contours. The map shall be keyed
to a consistent datum specified by the village engineer (normally the North
American vertical datum of 1929).
   B.   Drainage System Map And Descriptions: Mapping and descriptions, where
relevant, of existing and proposed drainage system features of the property and
immediate vicinity including:
      1.   The banks and centerline of streams and channels;
      2.   Shoreline of lakes, ponds, and existing or proposed stormwater
detention basins;
      3.   Farm drains and field tiles;
      4.   Subwatershed boundaries within the property controlled by the owner;
      5.   Watershed soils classifications;
      6.   The property's location within the larger watershed and the area of
all upstream watersheds;
      7.   Location, size, cross sectional shape, and slope of stormwater
conduits, storm sewers and drainage swales;
      8.   Direction and velocity of stormwater flows;
      9.   Delineation of upstream and downstream drainage features and
watersheds which might be affected by the development;
      10.   Locations, size, and shape of stormwater detention and retention
facilities;
      11.   Roads, streets, other paved areas and associated stormwater inlets;
      12.   Base flood elevation and regulatory floodway where identified for
the property; and
      13.   Basis of design for the final drainage network components,
including design calculations and a summary of design assumptions utilized.
   C.   Environmental Features: A depiction of environmental features of the
property and immediate vicinity including the following:
      1.   The limits of wetland areas, as depicted on the national wetland
inventory maps;
      2.   Any designated natural areas, such as, but not limited to, a public
park, wildlife management area, or conservation area; and
      3.   Any proposed environmental mitigation features, including permanent
and temporary soil erosion control features.
   D.   Engineer's Certificate: All design work must be signed and sealed by an
Illinois professional engineer. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-11: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
10-6-11-1: GENERAL DESIGN METHODS AND STANDARDS:
The following requirements shall be applicable and shall be satisfied prior to
the construction, improvement or development of any structure, project or land
which is subject to the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Calculation Of Drainage Capacity: The rational method, USDA soil
conservation service (SCS) TR-55 method, Illudas, Mannings equation, or other
similar recognized methods may be used to size the minor components for any
development.
   B.   Precipitation Data: Illinois state water survey bulletin 70 or other
more recently available data acceptable to the village engineer shall be
utilized to determine precipitation.
   C.   Design Procedures: General design procedures and methods for all
drainage system components shall comply with the provisions of the Illinois
department of transportation "Drainage Manual", latest edition.
   D.   Storm Sewer Systems:
      1.   Capacity: All storm sewer systems shall be designed for the peak
rate of runoff from a minimum of a 5-year return period storm under
nonpressurized gravity flow conditions. Low pressure systems may be allowed by
the village engineer under site specific conditions when outlet conditions
preclude nonpressurized flow. In general, low pressure conditions will be
tolerated only in the first segment of storm sewer upstream from the outlet.
All design calculations must be submitted to the village engineer for approval.
      2.   Storm Sewer: The minimum pipe diameter shall be ten inches (10");
except, that all public storm sewers shall have a minimum pipe diameter of
twelve inches (12"). The system shall have a free outlet and shall be designed
for gravity flow conditions. Low pressure outlets may be allowed by the village
engineer if physical conditions preclude nonpressurized flow.
      3.   Grade: Sewer grades shall be such that, in general, a minimum of two
feet (2') of cover is maintained over the top of the pipe. Pipe cover less than
the minimum may be used upon site specific approval by the village board of
trustees. Uniform slopes shall be maintained between inlets, manholes and inlet
to manhole. Minimum and maximum allowable slopes shall be those capable of
producing velocities between two feet (2') and ten feet (10') per second,
respectively, when the sewer is flowing full. Velocities lower than the minimum
or higher than the maximum may be used upon site specific approval by the
village board of trustees.
      4.   Overland Flow: The maximum distance for overland flow of stormwater
runoff to an underground storm sewer system shall be six hundred feet (600'),
unless a longer distance is approved by the village board of trustees.
      5.   Alignment: Storm sewers shall be constructed in a straight line
between manholes insofar as possible. Where long radius curves are necessary to
conform to street layout, the minimum radius of curvature shall be no less than
three hundred feet (300'). Deflection of pipe sections shall not exceed the
maximum deflection recommended by the pipe manufacturer. The deflection shall
be uniform, and the finished installation shall follow a smooth curve.
      6.   Manholes:
         a.   Manholes shall be installed to provide access to continuous
underground storm sewers for the purpose of inspection and maintenance.
Manholes shall be provided at the following locations:
            (1)   Where two (2) or more storm sewers converge.
            (2)   At the point of beginning or at the end of a curve (PC or PT)
and at the point of reverse curvature (PRC) of a storm sewer.
            (3)   Where pipe size changes.
            (4)   Where an abrupt change in alignment occurs.
            (5)   Where a change in pipe slope occurs.
            (6)   At suitable intervals in straight sections of sewers.
         b.   The maximum distance between manholes shall be as follows:
 
10 inch diameter pipe            300 feet
12 inch to 24 inch diameter pipe 350 feet
Over 24 inch diameter pipe       500 feet
 
         c.   Diameter of manholes shall be as follows:
 
Outlet Pipe Diameter Manhole Diameter
18 inch and under    4 feet
21 inch to 42 inch   5 feet
48 inch to 60 inch   6 feet
 
         d.   All manholes shall be constructed in accordance with the standard
details in section
10-6-19 of this chapter.
      7.   Hydraulic Grade Line: Pipes of equal diameter shall be provided with
not less than 0.1 foot of fall across manholes. The crowns or 0.8 diameter
point of pipes of unequal diameter shall be matched at manholes so as to
promote continuous hydraulic grade lines.
      8.   Inlets And Catch Basins:
         a.   Inlets and catch basins on drainage structures shall be utilized
to collect surface water through grated openings and convey it to storm sewers
or culverts.
         b.   Inlet spacings in streets shall comply with the design provisions
of the Illinois department of transportation "Drainage Manual", latest edition.
Sufficient inlets shall be provided so that water will not drain across the
crown of any street or flow in the gutter of any street from more than five
hundred feet (500') during the 5-year return period storm event. Flow along the
gutter shall extend no more than ten feet (10') out from the face of the gutter
during the 5-year return period storm event. Engineering calculations shall be
submitted to the village engineer showing compliance with these requirements.
         c.   All inlets and catch basins shall be constructed in accordance
with the standard details of section
10-6-19 of this chapter.
      9.   Trench Backfill: Trench backfill requirements shall conform to the
applicable portions of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction, Illinois Department Of Transportation" (latest edition), or as
otherwise approved by the board of trustees.
      10.   Materials:
         a.   Pipe for storm sewers shall be specified as follows, unless
directed otherwise by the village superintendent of public works:
            (1)   Concrete pipe, twelve inches (12") in diameter and larger,
shall be placed below all roadways or other impervious surfaces and shall
conform to the design requirements of "Reinforced Concrete Culvert, Storm
Drain, And Sewer Pipe", AASHTO designation M170 (ASTM standard C-76). Joints
shall be mastic joints.
            (2)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe may be placed below all other
surfaces and specified as follows:
               (A)   PVC pipe (4 through 15 inch diameter) generally conforming
to ASTM standard D-3034, type PSM, with minimum wall thickness standard
dimension ratio (SDR) of 26 and push on flexible elastomeric seal joints
conforming to ASTM standard D-3212; smooth wall, unperforated.
               (B)   PVC pipe (18 through 27 inch diameter) conforming to
"Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Large- Diameter Plastic Gravity Sewer Pipe And
Fittings", ASTM standard F-679; with flexible elastomeric joints.
               (C)   PVC pipe (4 through 48 inch diameter) conforming to
"Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Ribbed Gravity Sewer Pipe And Fittings Based On
Controlled Inside Diameter", ASTM standard F-794, with flexible elastomeric
joints.
         b.   The strength and material requirements of the sewer pipe shall
conform to the requirements of the Illinois department of transportation
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", latest edition.
         c.   Storm sewer pipe shall be joined and sealed with tightly drawn,
authorized connectors and joints with gaskets or mastic as needed, to provide a
tightly sealed joint.
      11.   Workmanship:
         a.   The specifications for the construction of storm sewers shall not
be less stringent than those set forth in the Illinois department of
transportation "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction",
latest edition.
         b.   Construction of any utility pipe or conduit, such as gas,
electric and water, through any storm sewer structure shall be prohibited,
except with approved conflict structures.
      12.   Reduction Of Flow Velocity: Storm sewer discharges shall be
provided with end sections and measures to reduce flow velocity to minimize
soil erosion at the discharge point.
      13.   Culverts: The design and construction of culverts shall be as
specified in title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
   E.   Surface Drainage Systems:
      1.   Open Ditches: In general, open ditches which run parallel to streets
and sidewalks, generally in front of residential and commercial buildings,
typically referred to as a "rural cross section", will not be permitted.
However, surface drainage may be permitted for stormwater, where cost estimates
show that storm sewers are not economically feasible (including all life cycle
costs and the value of the land consumed), where land use conditions indicate
this method is feasible, and where topographic conditions indicate there will
be no difficulty from this method of disposal of stormwaters. Such economic and
feasibility studies shall be reviewed by the village engineer and approved by
the village board of trustees.
      2.   Capacity: All surface drainage systems of stormwater shall be
designed for the peak rate of runoff from a minimum of a 5-year return period
storm when the upstream watershed has an area of less than forty (40) acres.
Surface drainage systems shall be designed for the peak rate of runoff from a
minimum of the 25-year return period storm when the upstream watershed has an
area larger than forty (40) acres. All design calculations must be submitted to
the village engineer for approval.
      3.   Hydraulic Grade Line: The surface drainage system shall have a free
outlet and shall be designed for gravity flow conditions. The effects of
backwater due to culverts or other obstructions shall be accounted for in the
design.
      4.   Grade: Stormwater surface drains shall be constructed with uniform
bottom slopes the entire length of the drains. Minimum and maximum allowable
grade shall be those capable of producing velocities between one-half foot
(0.5') and five feet (5.0') per second. Stormwater velocity shall be controlled
to eliminate problems of soil erosion or other damage which could detract from
the primary use of the area.
      5.   Side Slopes And Bottom Widths: Surface drains shall be constructed
having side slopes of not less than three and one-half feet (31/2') horizontal
to one foot (1') vertical, or flatter. Side slopes steeper than three and one-
half feet (31/2') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical shall not be used
without site specific approval by the village superintendent of public works. A
channel bottom width of not less than one foot (1') shall be provided.
      6.   Erosion: Design of surface drains shall include control of soil
erosion. Temporary seeding, straw bale dikes, silt fencing, or other soil
stabilization measures shall be utilized during construction to control
erosion. Permanent erosion control measures such as mulching, hydroseeding,
nursery crops, conventional seeding, or other similar measures shall be
utilized upon completion of construction. These measures shall meet the
standards established in chapter 7 of this title.
      7.   Culverts: Culverts and similar structures shall be in conformance
with the requirements and specifications for culverts enumerated in title 8,
chapter 2 of this code.
      8.   Workmanship: The specifications for the construction of stormwater
surface drains shall meet those set forth in the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction", Illinois department of transportation, latest
edition thereof, or shall be as otherwise approved by the village engineer.
   F.   Tile Drains:
      1.   All major stormwater surface drains as designated by the village
superintendent of public works and all dry bottom stormwater detention basins
shall also be constructed with a subsurface drainage tile system as shown on
the standard details in section
10-6-19 of this chapter.
      2.   Tile drains shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements
of the Illinois department of transportation, "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction", latest edition.
      3.   Minimum pipe size shall be six inch (6") diameter.
      4.   Minimum capacity shall be the rate of discharge necessary for a
drainage coefficient of 0.35 inch per acre per day for the tributary watershed.
      5.   Unless directed otherwise by the village superintendent of public
works, drainpipe materials shall be PVC pipe with minimum wall thickness
standard dimension ratio (SDR) of 35 and push on flexible elastomeric seal
joints conforming to ASTM standard D-3212, smooth wall, unperforated.
      6.   Subsurface drainage tile systems shall be provided adjacent to new
residential lots to allow for connection of sump pump outlets, footing drains,
downspouts and other dry weather water outlets to the tile drainage system.
      7.   Tile drains shall be provided with inlets or cleanouts to allow for
inspection and maintenance of the tile system.
      8.   Existing agricultural tile drains serving upstream, off site areas
shall be intercepted at the edge of the development site and shall be
redirected into the storm sewer or the drainage system provided within the
development.
      9.   Existing easements for any agricultural drainage tile located within
development sites shall be preserved. If no easement exists, an easement shall
be granted for access and maintenance of the tile drain. Such easements shall
be of sufficient width and located to provide for continued functioning and
necessary maintenance of drainage facilities. No buildings or permanent
structures, including paved areas, but excluding streets, sidewalks, or
driveways, which cross the easement by the shortest possible route may be
located within the easement without the consent and approval of the public body
to which the easement is granted.
      10.   Agricultural drainage tile which, due to development, will be
located underneath roadways, drives, or parking areas, shall be replaced with
storm sewer quality pipe materials.
      11.   All drainage tile facilities which are broken or damaged during
construction shall be restored as nearly as possible to their original state by
the subdivider; except, that all field tiles shall be connected to the storm
sewer system where necessary for protection of improvements or prevention of
upstream flood damage. This requirement may be waived by the village board of
trustees if the repair or connection would serve no useful purpose. All field
tile repairs shall be witnessed by the subdivider's engineer or the village
superintendent of public works. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-11-2: STORMWATER DETENTION:
   A.   General Requirements: When the maximum controlled stormwater runoff
rate would be exceeded upon the development, redevelopment, or new construction
on the owner's land, stormwater storage methods shall be provided and
constructed by the owner. See sections
10-6-6 and
10-6-7 of this chapter for a complete determination of applicability and
exemptions. Any one or all of the stormwater storage methods listed shall be
provided and constructed.
   B.   Release Rate For Design Event: The maximum controlled release rate for
the 50-year postdevelopment precipitation event for each independent watershed
area within the owner's land as stormwater exits the owner's land shall be
equal to the peak rate of discharge from the development area prior to
development in a 5-year return frequency precipitation event. The release rate
shall be as determined by the rational method as outlined on the latest
Illinois department of transportation "Drainage Manual" for total contributing
areas between twenty (20) acres and five (5) acres, TR-55 method for areas
greater than twenty (20) acres, or other method acceptable to the village
engineer.
   C.   Maximum Release Rate For Pass-Through Situations: In general,
stormwater runoff from upstream off site areas shall be directed around the
stormwater storage area. However, when pass-through conditions are deemed
necessary, the maximum controlled release rate for the impacted watershed area
within the owner's land shall be determined in the following manner:
      1.   For that portion of the watershed outside of an owner's land, the
peak rate of runoff which would have occurred for a 50-year return period storm
under the state of development existing just prior to application for
development of an owner's land shall be calculated and determined.
      2.   For that portion of the watershed within the lands of an owner
developed as proposed, the peak rate of runoff from a 50-year return period
storm shall be calculated and determined.
      3.   The maximum controlled release rate for each independent watershed
area within the owner's land as it exits the owner's land for storms up to and
including the 50-year return period storm shall be the sum of subsections C1
and C2 of this section.
   D.   Maximum Release Rate For Small Developments: For total contributing
areas of less than five (5) acres, the following storage and release rates will
be required:
 
Area Allowed  Required Storage Rate Maximum Release Rate
Up to 1 acre  10,700 cu. ft./acre   1.05 cfs/acre
Up to 2 acres 9,100 cu. ft./acre    0.90 cfs/acre
Up to 3 acres 7,800 cu. ft./acre    0.78 cfs/acre
Up to 4 acres 6,900 cu. ft./acre    0.64 cfs/acre
Up to 5 acres 6,200 cu. ft./acre    0.60 cfs/acre
 
   E.   Reduced Release: The village may consider or require reduced release
rates under certain circumstances.
      1.   In the event that the downstream stormwater runoff drainage system
is inadequate to accommodate the maximum release rate provided in subsection D
of this section, then the village, at its option, may reduce the allowable
release rate to that rate permitted by the capacity of the receiving stormwater
runoff drainage system, and additional storage as determined by the village
engineer may be required to store that portion of the runoff exceeding the
capacity of the receiving stormwater runoff drainage system. When the village
exercises this option, the owner and village shall pay a proportional share of
the costs of the storage, as mutually determined by the village and the owner.
      2.   In the event that stormwater runoff control can be provided
exceeding the requirements of this chapter, and the benefit of this additional
control would accrue to the village at large, the village may participate in
the increased cost of the control of stormwater runoff in proportion to the
additional benefits derived therefrom.
   F.   Calculation Of Required Storage: The volume of required stormwater
storage shall be calculated on the basis of the maximum value achieved from the
runoff of a design event less the volume of water released through the outlet
structure. The following standards shall apply to watersheds of various sizes:
      1.   Standard Methods: Standard reservoir routing methods shall be
utilized to determine the required storage volume. Soil conservation service
TR-55 or TR-20 methodologies shall be utilized to develop hydrographs of the
stormwater runoff for the site. Stage/storage/discharge relationships shall be
developed for the detention basin utilizing standard engineering methods and
utilized to route the hydrographs through the stormwater detention storage
facility. All analyses and calculations shall comply with the recommended
procedures of the Illinois department of transportation "Drainage Manual".
      2.   TR-55 Methods: Soil conservation service TR-55 methods may be
utilized to calculate the required storage volume for developments with
watershed areas of less than twenty five (25) acres and which do not involve
significant off site drainage that must be passed through the detention basin.
Soil conservation service type II rainfall shall be utilized to estimate
storage volume and peak inflow requirements.
      3.   Modified Rational Methods:
         a.   The modified rational method may be utilized to calculate
required storage volume for developments with watershed areas of less than
twenty five (25) acres and which do not involve significant off site drainage
that must pass through the detention basin.
         b.   Time of concentration shall be estimated utilizing SCS TR-55
methods for developed conditions. "C" values utilized shall be set at one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of "normal" 5-year storm values to account
for reduced soil infiltration capabilities during large storm events, up to a
maximum "C" value of 1.0. In determining the volume of storage required when
using the modified rational method, the release rate of the outlet structure
can be assumed constant only if the release rate utilized in the calculations
is equal to the release rate through the outlet structure when one-half (1/2)
of the storage volume is filled.
         c.   When using the modified rational method, the critical storm
duration (that requiring the largest detention volume) for any design event
shall be identified and used in determining storage volume.
   G.   Outlet System:
      1.   An outlet system shall be provided to discharge water from the basin
at the design outlet controlled rate specified in subsections B, C, D, and E of
this section.
      2.   The outlet control structure shall be provided with an interceptor
for trash and debris, and it shall be designed and constructed to minimize soil
erosion and shall not require manual adjustments for its proper operation. The
control structure shall be designed to operate properly with minimal
maintenance or attention. The control structure shall be provided with safety
screens for any pipe or opening, other than a weir, to prevent children or
large animals from crawling into structures. The control structure shall be
constructed to allow access to it at all times, including times of flood flow.
      3.   Each stormwater storage facility shall be provided with a means of
emergency overflow. This emergency overflow structure shall be constructed to
function without special maintenance attention and can become a part of the
excess stormwater passageway for the entire development. The emergency overflow
structure shall be capable of passing the 100-year return period storm event
flow.
   H.   Flood Elevations: The entire stormwater storage facility shall be
designed and constructed to fully protect the public health, safety, and
welfare. The minimum building site elevation adjacent to stormwater detention
basins shall be set at a minimum of one foot (1') above the maximum created
head during the 100-year return period storm event. The maximum created head
will include the energy head at the emergency overflow structure.
   I.   Freeboard: Stormwater detention basins shall be provided with a
freeboard of not less than one foot (1') above the water surface elevation that
is anticipated to occur during the 50-year return period storm event. The
freeboard shall not be overtopped during the 100-year return period storm
event.
   J.   Sediment Traps: Stormwater storage facilities that receive runoff from
tributary areas outside of the development site that are utilized primarily for
row crop agricultural purposes shall be provided with permanent sediment
trapping basins upstream from the stormwater storage area. Minimum storage
volume shall be one hundred fifty (150) cubic yards per acre of upstream
watershed. Minimum discharge capacity from the main spillway shall be not less
than 0.2 cfs per acre of upstream watershed. The basin shall have a length to
width ratio of at least 2.0 at the spillway crest elevation.
   K.   Compensatory Storage: Where portions of the owner's land are tributary
to the same drain for an outlet, but which are within two (2) or more tributary
areas to that drain, the owner may construct, upon site specific approval by
the village board of trustees, compensatory stormwater detention facilities
within one tributary area which offset the lack of construction of stormwater
detention facilities in another tributary area. Such compensatory storage shall
be designed and constructed such that the net effect of the facilities shall be
to limit the rate at which stormwater runoff is released into the drain to that
rate which would have occurred had stormwater detention facilities been
constructed for all the tributary areas.
   L.   Storage Duration: The storage of excess stormwater runoff from a 50-
year return period storm having a duration of twenty four (24) hours, released
at the allowable rate, shall generally not result in a storage duration in
excess of twenty four (24) hours. Storage duration may be as long as thirty
(30) hours due to unique site conditions, upon site specific approval of the
village board of trustees.
   M.   Joint Construction: Stormwater storage areas may be planned and
constructed jointly by two (2) or more landowners, provided the provisions of
this chapter are met. Adequate easements and provisions for future maintenance
by the landowners must be provided.
   N.   Construction Time Line: Where stormwater detention, retention, or
depressional storage areas are to be used as part of the drainage system for a
property, they shall be constructed as the first element of the initial
earthwork for the development. Construction of impervious surfaces shall not
begin until the necessary detention facilities are in place and operational.
Any eroded sediment captured in these facilities shall be removed by the
applicant before project completion in order to maintain the design volume of
the facilities.
   O.   Protection Of Public Health, Safety, And Welfare: The entire stormwater
storage area shall be designed and constructed to fully protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. If a condition occurs in the stormwater storage
area which is hazardous to the public health, safety, or welfare, the person
responsible for the condition will be required to provide approved corrective
measures. In the event these corrective measures are not provided, the village
may eliminate the hazard at the expense of the person responsible.
   P.   Warning Signs: Warning signs shall be placed at appropriate locations
to warn of deep water, possible flood conditions during storm periods, and of
other dangers that exist to pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   Q.   Backyard Storage Areas: Backyard storage areas in residential
developments will generally not be allowed unless extraordinary lot depth and
area are provided, along with appropriate easements. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-11-3: DRY BOTTOM STORMWATER STORAGE AREAS:
   A.   Dry bottom stormwater storage facilities should be designed, where
possible, to serve a secondary purpose for recreation, open space, or similar
types of uses which will not be adversely affected by occasional intermittent
flooding and will not interfere with stormwater management.
   B.   Minimum grades for turf areas within the basin shall be two percent
(2%) (50 units horizontal to 1 unit vertical); except, that the minimum grade
shall be one-half percent (0.5%) (200 units horizontal to 1 unit vertical) if
tile underdrains are adequately installed underneath the turf areas. Storage
facility side slopes shall not be steeper than four (4) units horizontal to one
unit vertical, and shall provide for the reasonably safe approach of persons
and reasonably safe maintenance practices. Side slopes steeper than four to one
(4:1) may be allowed upon a determination by the village superintendent of
public works that adequate precautions are taken to avoid unreasonable hazard.
Storage basin excavations shall follow the natural land contours as closely as
practicable. The geometry of dry bottom stormwater storage basins shall be
approved by the village engineer.
   C.   Subsurface low flow conduits shall be provided in dry bottom stormwater
storage basins. These conduits shall be constructed so that they will not
unnecessarily interfere with any secondary use of the storage area and will
reduce the frequency of time that the storage area will be covered with water.
The low flow conduits shall facilitate dewatering of the soils in the
stormwater storage area to avoid saturated soil conditions. Low flow conduits
shall facilitate complete interior drainage of the stormwater storage area and
shall be designed to intercept trickle flows from storm sewers and other
drainage facilities which outlet into the basin. Low flow conduits shall be not
less than eight inches (8") in diameter. Tile underdrain systems may be
combined with the low flow conduits.
   D.   Pipe outlets of less than eight inches (8") in diameter shall not be
allowed unless specifically approved by the village engineer. Multiple outlet
pipes from a stormwater storage area shall be avoided if they are designed to
be less than twelve inches (12") in diameter.
   E.   Temporary seeding, silt fencing, straw bale dikes or other soil
stabilization measures shall be established in the stormwater storage area
immediately following construction. During construction of the overall
development, it is recognized that a limited amount of sediment buildup may
occur in the stormwater storage area due to erosion. In no case shall the
volume of the storage area be reduced to less than ninety percent (90%) of the
required volume during the construction phase of the development. All sediment
shall be removed before construction is completed. (See also section
10-6-14 of this chapter.)
   F.   Permanent erosion control measures such as mulching, hydroseeding,
conventional seeding, nurse crops, fertilizing, or sod installation shall be
utilized to control soil movement and erosion within the storage area. These
measures shall meet the standards established in "Procedures And Standards For
Urban Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control In Illinois" and the Illinois
urban manual. See chapter 7 of this title. The installation of these permanent
measures shall take place only after the majority of construction and other
silt and sediment producing activities have been completed. Prior to the
establishment of the permanent erosion control measures, the required capacity
of the stormwater storage area and the excess stormwater passageway shall be
restored by removal of any deposited sediment.
   G.   Adequate impact stilling basins shall be provided at the downstream
side of any outlet structure to ensure that downstream soil erosion is
mitigated as much as practicable and the regime of the downstream drainage
facility is not disturbed.
   H.   The maximum planned depth of stormwater stored shall not exceed three
feet (3').
   I.   Tile underdrains shall be provided for all detention basins serving a
watershed area of more than five (5) acres and for all detention basins located
in soils with typical groundwater elevations of less than three feet (3') below
ground surface. Tile underdrains shall be constructed so that they will not
interfere with any secondary usage of the storage area. Tile underdrains shall
be constructed so that they shall facilitate dewatering of the soils in the
stormwater storage area to avoid marshy or saturated soil conditions. Tile
underdrain systems may be combined with the low flow conduits. (Ord. 2009-10,
2-2-2009)
10-6-11-4: WET BOTTOM STORMWATER STORAGE AREAS:
Wet bottom stormwater storage facilities shall be designed in compliance with
all the applicable regulations which govern the construction of dry bottom
stormwater storage facilities. The following additional regulations shall apply
to wet bottom stormwater storage facilities:
   A.   The water surface area of the permanent pool shall not exceed one-fifth
(1/5) of the area of the tributary watershed, or as approved by the village
board of trustees.
   B.   Minimum normal water depth (excluding safety ledges and side slopes)
shall be four feet (4'); provided, however, that if fish are to be maintained
in the pool, at least one-fourth (1/4) of the pond area shall be a minimum of
ten feet (10') deep.
   C.   Measures shall be included in the design to minimize pond stagnation
and to help ensure adequate aerobic pond conditions.
   D.   Storage facility side slopes shall provide a maximum side slope below
the normal water elevation which shall not be steeper than a slope of three to
one (3:1) (3 horizontal units to 1 vertical unit) to a point at which the
normal water depth is no less than three feet (3'). A ten foot (10') wide flat
safety ledge shall be provided at a point three feet (3') below the normal pool
water surface. Below a normal depth of three feet (3'), side slopes shall not
be steeper than the stable angle of repose under saturated conditions of the
soil material of the basin. Side slopes steeper than those set forth herein may
be approved by the village engineer on a case by case basis due to unusual or
unique circumstances.
   E.   Facilities shall be provided to lower the pond elevation at least three
feet (3') for cleaning purposes and shoreline maintenance, unless the village
board of trustees determines that construction of such facilities is not
practical.
   F.   Protection of the shoreline shall be provided to alleviate soil erosion
due to wave action.
   G.   The volume of the water permanently stored shall not be considered to
be a part of the required excess stormwater storage. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-11-5: ALTERNATIVE STORMWATER STORAGE AREAS:
The use of stormwater storage facilities, as described in sections
10-6-11-3 and
10-6-11-4 of this chapter, are the preferred means of stormwater storage. The
following alternative means of stormwater storage may be used on development
sites under two (2) acres in area or where practical necessity makes the use of
stormwater storage facilities infeasible. The use of such alternative
stormwater storage areas is only permitted upon the approval of the village
board of trustees.
   A.   Paved/Structured Storage: Design and construction of the pavement and
structural elements must assure that there is minimal damage due to flooding.
Control structures must be readily accessible for maintenance and cleaning.
Flow control devices will be required unless otherwise approved by the village
engineer.
   B.   Street Pavement Surface Ponding: No stormwater detention shall be
located upon street pavements. Street pavement surface ponding shall not exceed
six inches (6") in depth in the gutter line, nor over the roadway crown if no
gutter is present, under all rainfall conditions up to and including the 50-
year storm event. Open waterways, such as surface overflow swales, shall be
designed into the grading plan to receive all excess stormwater runoff.
Depressing sidewalks across such overflow swales to meet this requirement shall
be acceptable. Street ponding shall be allowed only for the conveyance of
excess stormwater runoff and will be subject to approval by the public body
accepting dedication of the street. Engineering calculations shall be submitted
to the village engineer showing compliance with these requirements.
   C.   Rooftop Storage: Rooftop storage of excess stormwater shall be designed
and constructed to provide permanent control inlets and parapet walls to
contain excess stormwater. Adequate structural roof design must be provided to
ensure that roof deflection does not occur which could cause the roofing
material to fail and result in leakage. Overflow areas must be provided to
ensure that the weight of stormwater will never exceed the structural capacity
of the roof. Any rooftop storage of excess stormwater shall be approved only
upon submission of building plans signed and sealed by a licensed structural
engineer or architect attesting to the structural adequacy of the design.
   D.   Automobile Parking Lot Storage: Automobile parking lots may be designed
to provide temporary detention storage on a portion of their surfaces.
Automobile parking facilities used to store excess stormwater may be
constructed having a maximum depth of stored stormwater of six inches (6"); and
these areas shall be located in the most remote, least used areas of the
parking facility. Design and construction of automobile parking in stormwater
areas must ensure that there is minimal damage to the parking facility due to
flooding, including minimal damage to the subbase. Warning signs shall be
mounted at appropriate locations to warn of possible flood conditions during
storm periods.
   E.   Underground Storage: Underground stormwater storage facilities must be
designed for easy access in order to remove accumulated sediment and debris.
These facilities must be provided with a positive gravity outlet unless
otherwise approved by the village engineer. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-12: MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATELY OWNED FACILITIES:
   A.   Maintenance of stormwater drainage facilities located on private
property shall be the responsibility of the owner of that property. Before a
building permit is obtained from the village or any plat is approved by the
board of trustees, the owner shall ensure that nonrevocable covenants are
placed upon the property, guaranteeing that the owner and all future owners of
the property maintain and will maintain the stormwater drainage system. The
covenants shall specifically authorize representatives of the village to enter
onto the property for the purpose of inspection and maintenance of the drainage
system. The covenants shall also include a schedule for regular maintenance of
each aspect of the property's stormwater drainage system and shall provide for
access to the system for inspection by authorized personnel of the village.
   B.   In the event that an inspection by the village reveals that the private
stormwater drainage facilities are not properly maintained, the village may
require that proper maintenance be performed. The village superintendent of
public works shall notify the property owner to begin any necessary corrections
within thirty (30) calendar days of such notification and complete the
corrections within ninety (90) calendar days. If the corrections are not made
within this time period, the village may have the necessary work completed and
assess all the costs to the property owner as provided in the covenants placed
upon the property at the time of issuance of the permit.
   C.   The private property owner may, after approval by the village board of
trustees, assign the owner's maintenance responsibilities and duties under the
terms of the covenants to a third party, such as a property owner's association
or other competent agency. When such an assignment is made, the entity
undertaking the maintenance responsibility shall show evidence of financial
ability to provide any maintenance required. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-13: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections During Construction:
      1.   Construction of impervious surfaces shall not begin until the
developer's engineer has certified in writing to the village superintendent of
public works that any necessary detention facilities are in place and are
operational. The village superintendent of public works, or his representative,
may conduct periodic inspections of the work in progress to be certain that the
drainage system is being built as designed. If any violations of the provisions
or requirements of this chapter are noted during such inspections, the village
superintendent of public works shall notify the property owner in writing of
the items needing correction.
      2.   The property owner shall have thirty (30) calendar days to make such
corrections unless given a specific extension of time in writing by the village
board of trustees. Failure to complete such corrections within the specified
time period shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   B.   As Built Drawings: As built drawings must be prepared and submitted by
an Illinois professional engineer stating conformance with the design plans
before final approval of the constructed improvements by the village board of
trustees.
   C.   Final Inspection: Upon notification by the owner that the drainage
system is completed and upon receipt of as built plans, the village
superintendent of public works or his representative shall make a final
inspection and notify the property owner of any necessary corrections. The
property owner shall correct any such deficiencies within thirty (30) calendar
days unless given a specific extension of time in writing by the village board
of trustees. Failure to make necessary corrections within the specified time
period shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Upon finding that the
drainage system meets the provisions and requirements of this chapter, the
village board of trustees shall issue a written notice to the property owner
stating that the drainage system is complete.
   D.   Routine Inspections: All privately owned drainage systems may be
inspected by representatives of the village superintendent of public works at
any reasonable time. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-14: DRY WEATHER WATER OUTLETS:
   A.   Hazards And Nuisance Conditions Prohibited: Dry weather water outlets
are prohibited from discharging directly onto any public property, public right
of way, public street or public sidewalk if such discharge creates or
contributes to a public hazard or public nuisance.
   B.   Permit Requirements: No person shall hereafter construct, build,
establish, replace or maintain any dry weather water outlet which discharges
onto a public right of way, public street, public sidewalk, roadside ditch, or
other public property maintained by the village without first obtaining a
permit to do so from the village board of trustees. Failure to obtain a permit
from the village board of trustees for a dry weather water outlet discharge
onto a public street, public sidewalk, or other public property shall be deemed
a violation of this chapter.
   C.   Sump Pumps: Sump pumps installed to receive or discharge groundwaters
or stormwater runoff shall be connected to the storm sewer where possible or
discharged into a designated stormwater runoff drainage facility. No sump pump
shall discharge directly onto a street surface or public sidewalk without a
permit from the Director of Public Works or his/her designee. Sump pumps are
prohibited from discharging in any way that would cause water to flow onto any
public sidewalks, streets, or driveways within the public right of way without
a permit from the Director of Public Works or his/her designee.
      1.   Permits for temporary sump pump discharges onto a street, public
right-of-way, or gutter may be granted by the Director of Public Works of the
Village at his discretion when the following conditions are met:
         a.   The sump pump discharge is for surface water and does not
exclusively contain footing or foundation tile water.
         b.   The surface water that is proposed to be pumped adversely affects
at least three (3) properties in the same block.
         c.   The surface water problem that is proposed to be pumped was not
created by any of the affected property owners.
         d.   The Village has investigated the problem and determined that a
long term solution is not immediately constructable in the current fiscal year.
         e.   Any discharge line from a permitted sump pump shall have an ADA
compliant ramp protecting it where the discharge line crosses any sidewalk.
         f.   No more than three (3) permitted discharges shall be allowed per
block.
         g.   Permits shall be valid from March 1 until December 1 of the year
that they are issued and must be re-issued each calendar year.
After a permit is issued the Director of Public Works or his designee shall
inspect the discharge and the permittee shall make any adjustments as required
to ensure the general safety of the public.
   D.   Footing Drains: Footing drains and drainage tile shall discharge into a
storm sewer or other storm drainage facility. No footing drains or drainage
tile shall be connected to a sanitary sewer or be discharged directly onto a
street surface or public sidewalk. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009; amd. Ord. 2022-15,
4-21-2022)
10-6-15: VARIANCES:
   A.   Standards For Variances: In order to promote the best possible
development and use of land, the village board of trustees shall interpret the
standards, provisions, and specifications contained in this chapter liberally
and in favor of the public interest. Variations from these standards,
provisions, and specifications may be granted when it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the zoning board of appeals that, owing to special conditions,
a strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship, and that the spirit and intent of this chapter will be observed.
   B.   Procedure: A request for variation shall be filed by the owner with the
village clerk, who shall refer it, to the appropriate village staff member and
appropriate committee of the village board for review. The request for
variation shall be written and shall state specifically what variation is
sought and the public interest in granting the variation along with any other
necessary documentation to review the request. The village board of trustees
shall meet within a reasonable time thereafter, but not more than sixty (60)
days after the initial request, to consider the request. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-
2009; Ord. 2021-43, 7-15-2021)
10-6-16: APPEALS:
   A.   This section shall conform with the provisions of section
10-6-15 of this chapter.
   B.   Any person wishing to appeal a determination made by the village board
of trustees under the provisions of this chapter may do so to the village
zoning board of appeals by following the procedures set forth in title 2,
chapter 1 of this code. Failure to file said appeal within thirty (30) days
after the village board of trustees determination shall preclude further
review. The appeal must state specifically:
      1.   The determination made by the village board of trustees that is
being appealed;
      2.   The basis for the appeal;
      3.   The position of the party appealing;
      4.   Any supportive information for the position of the party appealing;
and
      5.   Such additional information as the party may wish to submit.
   C.   The request for an appeal shall be filed with the village board of
trustees, who shall refer it to the zoning board of appeals for decision. The
zoning board of appeals shall meet within a reasonable time thereafter to
consider the appeal. (Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-17: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The drainage design standards required by this chapter are considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and are based upon engineering and
scientific methods of study. Larger rainfalls may occur on rare occasions, and
greater runoff rates or decreased hydraulic capacities of the structure may
occur due to uncontrollable circumstances. This chapter does not imply that an
area within or outside of the sites to which the standards of this chapter have
been applied will be totally free from potential flooding or runoff damages.
This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the village or any
officer or employee or agent thereof for any damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord.
2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-18: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fine: Any person or owner determined by the village board of trustees,
or a court having jurisdiction, to be in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day the
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. The village board of
trustees may recommend prosecution under the penalties of this section for any
instance of noncompliance which may be found.
   B.   Stop Work Order: The village superintendent of public works may also,
in the event he finds any improper construction activities not in conformance
with this chapter, issue a stop work order which shall require the immediate
cessation of any further work on the project until the violations are remedied.
   C.   Additional Remedies: The village reserves the right to seek any and all
additional legal remedies allowed by Illinois Compiled Statutes and other
village ordinances against an owner deemed to be in violation of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, personal judgments and the recovery of all
administrative costs incurred as part of the enforcement proceedings. (Ord.
2009-10, 2-2-2009)
10-6-19: EXHIBITS:
The following drawings are made a part of this chapter:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1638.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1640.gif]
 
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1642.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1646.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1644.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1648.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1650.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1652.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1654.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1656.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1658.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1660.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1662.gif]
 
(Ord. 2009-10, 2-2-2009)
CHAPTER 7
EROSION CONTROL
SECTION:
10-7-1: Short Title
10-7-2: Positive Drainage
10-7-3: Building Site Elevation
10-7-4: Erosion Control Standards
10-7-5: Schedule Of Construction Activities
10-7-6: Temporary Seeding
10-7-7: Occupancy
10-7-8: Seeding Standards
10-7-9: Sod
10-7-10: Variances
10-7-11: Appeals
10-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the EROSION CONTROL
ORDINANCE of the village. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-2: POSITIVE DRAINAGE:
Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage away from all
buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with general storm
drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid
concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots. (Ord.
2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-3: BUILDING SITE ELEVATION:
All single-family residential lots shall be graded such that the building site
elevation on the lot is not less than one foot (1') above the highest adjacent
centerline elevation of the adjacent pavement, based upon a thirty foot (30')
front yard setback on a local street. All lots shall be graded to fully drain.
Turf areas with slopes of less than one-half percent (1/2%) shall generally not
be allowed. Special lot grading to meet unusual site conditions may be
utilized, as authorized by the village engineer. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-4: EROSION CONTROL STANDARDS:
Soil erosion control measures shall be implemented in general accordance with
the following standards:
   A.   "Standards And Specifications For Soil Erosion And Sediment Control",
prepared by the Northeastern Illinois Natural Resource Center et al.; and/or
   B.   "Standards And Specifications For Soil Erosion And Sediment Control",
prepared by the Illinois EPA; and/or
   C.   The "Illinois Urban Manual", prepared by the Natural Resources
Conservation Service. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-5: SCHEDULE OF CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
Straw bale dikes, silt fences and other soil erosion control measures shall be
installed on the first day of construction activities. As construction
activities progress, additional erosion control measures shall be implemented
and installed, as warranted by site conditions. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-6: TEMPORARY SEEDING:
All bare soil surfaces on lot areas and areas not in major construction
activity zones shall be temporarily seeded with an oats or rye grass cover crop
within fourteen (14) days after start of construction or disturbance, or after
active grading occurs, whichever occurs sooner. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-7: OCCUPANCY:
No occupancy shall be allowed until final grading has been completed in
accordance with the approved construction documents and lot areas, including
areas between the sidewalks and curbs, have been stabilized by seeding and
mulching. Temporary occupancy may be granted, however, in accordance with the
provisions enumerated in chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-8: SEEDING STANDARDS:
All street rights of way, commons areas, lot areas, and other similar areas
shall be fertilized, seeded, mulched, and watered, in accordance with sections
250 and 251 of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction",
IDOT, latest edition. The grass seed mixture shall be lawn mixture, class 1, as
described in table 1 of article 250.07 of the said standard specifications. The
mulch shall be applied in accordance with method 2, procedure 2, of article
251.03 of said standard specifications. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-9: SOD:
The owner may use sod instead of grass seed if immediate surface cover is
desired or required. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-10: VARIANCES:
   A.   Standards For Variance: In order to promote the best possible
development and use of land, the village board of trustees shall interpret the
standards, provisions, and specifications contained in this chapter liberally
and in favor of the public interest. Variations from these standards,
provisions, and specifications may be granted when it is demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the board of trustees that, owing to special conditions, a
strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary
hardship and that the spirit and intent of this chapter will be observed.
   B.   Procedure: A request for variation shall be filed by the owner with the
village engineer, who shall refer it, together with his recommendation, to the
board of trustees for decision. The request for variation shall be written and
shall state specifically what variation is sought and the public interest in
granting the variation. The board of trustees shall meet within a reasonable
time thereafter to consider the request. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
10-7-11: APPEALS:
   A.   This section shall conform with the provisions of section
10-6-16 of this title.
   B.   Any person wishing to appeal a determination made by the village board
of trustees under the provisions of this chapter may do so to the village
zoning board of appeals by following the procedures set forth in the zoning
ordinance 1 . Failure to file said appeal within thirty (30) days after the
village board of trustees' determination shall preclude further review. The
appeal must state specifically:
      1.   The determination made by the village board of trustees that is
being appealed;
      2.   The basis for the appeal;
      3.   The position of the party appealing;
      4.   Any supportive information for the position of the party appealing;
and
      5.   Such additional information as the party may wish to submit.
   C.   The request for an appeal shall be filed with the village board of
trustees, who shall refer it to the zoning board of appeals for decision. The
zoning board of appeals shall meet within a reasonable time thereafter to
consider the appeal. (Ord. 2009-23, 2-17-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-5-7 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Statute Authority; Purpose
10-8-2: Definitions
10-8-3: Duties Of Zoning And Administrative Review Committee Chair
10-8-4: Base Flood Elevation
10-8-5: Development Permit
10-8-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Damages
10-8-7: Protecting Buildings
10-8-8: Subdivision Requirements
10-8-9: Public Health And Other Standards
10-8-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
10-8-11: Variances
10-8-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-8-13: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-8-14: Violation; Penalties
10-8-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this village
by the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-
12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2, in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate floodwater and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
10-8-4 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, which is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: A. Any facility that is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can affect the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
   B.   Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations); schools; hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities;
major roads and bridges; critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers); and hazardous materials storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: A. Any manmade change to real estate including, but not
necessarily limited to:
      1.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building.
      2.   Substantial improvement of an existing building.
      3.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      4.   Installation of utilities and construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects.
      5.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences.
      6.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface.
      7.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might
change the direction, height, or velocity of floodwaters or surface waters.
   B.   "Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date hereof.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within
the village. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot (1') of freeboard, at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): A. These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the village of Heyworth, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village of Heyworth, or that may be
annexed into the village of Heyworth, that are subject to inundation by the
base flood. The floodplains of the village of Heyworth are generally identified
as such on panel numbers 705 and 715 of the countywide flood insurance rate map
of McLean County, Illinois, prepared by the federal emergency management agency
and dated July 16, 2008. Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding
as identified by the village.
   B.   The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated McLean County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village of Heyworth or that may
be annexed into the village of Heyworth are generally identified as such on the
flood insurance rate map prepared for McLean County by the federal emergency
management agency and dated July 16, 2008.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of Kickapoo Creek and Burlson Creek
shall be according to the best data available from federal, state, or other
sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, and wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided, that such
enclosure is not built to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements of section
10-8-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced or
after the effective date hereof and includes any subsequent improvements of
such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date hereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle that is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis.
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size.
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty five
percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the effective date hereof equals
or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive
loss" buildings (see definition in this section).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the effective date hereof
in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
      1.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
   B.   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures, which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
   C.   The term does not include:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
required federal, state, and/or local permits and elevation certification is
presumed to be in violation until the documentation is provided. (Ord. 2008-23,
7-7-2008)
10-8-3: DUTIES OF ZONING AND ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW COMMITTEE CHAIR:
The trustee who serves as the chair of the zoning and administrative review
committee shall be responsible for the general administration of this chapter
and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains under the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter.
Specifically, the zoning and administrative review committee chair shall: (Ord.
2008-23, 7-7-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
10-8-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
10-8-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
10-8-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the as built elevation
of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
10-8-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
10-8-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
10-8-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
10-8-14 of this chapter as is necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-4: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
   A.   This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed in this section. Whenever a party
disagrees with the best available data, the party shall finance the detailed
engineering study needed to replace the existing data with better data and
submit it to FEMA and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the
site.
   B.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Kickapoo Creek and
Burlson Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
countywide flood insurance study of McLean County prepared by the federal
emergency management agency and dated July 16, 2008.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of McLean County.
   D.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of McLean
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   E.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated McLean County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the village, or that may be annexed into the village, shall be as delineated
on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of McLean County
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated July 16, 2008.
(Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not
exempted by law shall commence any development in the floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the zoning and administrative review
committee chair. The zoning and administrative review committee chair shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Permit: A person requesting a development permit must
first complete and submit a development permit application form to the village
accompanied by: (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
10-8-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
(Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
   C.   Review Of Information:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the zoning
and administrative review committee chair shall compare the elevation of the
site to the base flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be
shown by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and
which has not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance
rate map is not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements
of this chapter. Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below
the base flood elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the
current flood insurance rate map, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The zoning and administrative review committee chair shall maintain
documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site and
certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site's first flood insurance rate map identification.
      3.   The zoning and administrative review committee chair shall be
responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal,
state, and local permits, approvals or permit not required letters that may be
required for this type of activity. The zoning and administrative review
committee chair shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and
local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
10-8-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety. The following specific development activities
shall be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 2:
         a.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one foot (1.0'); and
         b.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         c.   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         d.   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         e.   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state of Illinois, and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/
OWR permit.
         f.   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 3:
         a.   The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells, or other
similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army corps of
engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 4:
         a.   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         b.   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         c.   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         d.   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         e.   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         f.   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
code, and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 5:
         a.   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limit established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers.
         b.   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet (10').
         c.   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         d.   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         e.   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         f.   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         g.   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers, which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals, are not permissible.
         h.   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         i.   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner that will
minimize obstruction to flow.
         j.   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corps of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6. The following activities (not involving
fill or positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
         a.   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or septic
tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
         b.   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structures.
         c.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures.
         d.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports.
         e.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size nor ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
         f.   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are made
to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7:
         a.   Any outfall structure, including any head wall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         b.   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour velocity
of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the use of
riprap or other design measures.
         c.   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         d.   Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8:
         a.   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of the
river, lake or stream, and unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition.
         b.   Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         c.   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act, 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5, shall be provided with shutoff valves on each side of the
body of water to be crossed.
         d.   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9:
         a.   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock/wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. "Urban
areas" are defined as areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         b.   In addition to the materials listed in subsection A8a of this
section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural
areas, provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         c.   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5.
         d.   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         e.   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         f.   Materials shall be placed in a way that would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         g.   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of the
bank.
         h.   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full width
and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe of
the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         i.   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         j.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         k.   In the case of sea walls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing sea wall(s)
or gabion structure(s); and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         l.   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules and shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10:
         a.   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
         b.   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         c.   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property, and must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         d.   No construction shall be undertaken in or within fifty feet (50')
of the bank of the stream channel.
         e.   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         f.   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing structure
shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         g.   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11:
         a.   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
         b.   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel; and
         c.   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         d.   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank, provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of the bank, and provided the
cross sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than
ten percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards
per linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee, provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         e.   Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12:
         a.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure; and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         b.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects, the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         c.   The project shall not include any appreciable rising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         d.   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit number 9, "minor shoreline, channel and
streambank protection activities", or statewide permit number 11, "minor
maintenance dredging activities".
         e.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13:
         a.   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         b.   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         c.   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         d.   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         e.   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or stream
channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents that
the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition number
3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum,
confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the backwater
induced by the temporary structure. The permittee shall maintain records of
projects authorized by this permit necessary to document compliance with this
condition.
         f.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         g.   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5.
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   The permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA, for a revision of the regulatory map and base
flood elevation. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: In addition to the damage prevention
requirements of section
10-8-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Manufactured home on an existing site. (The building protection
requirements do not apply to returning a manufactured home to the same site it
lawfully occupied before it was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      2.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      3.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing "building", as defined in section
10-8-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential Or Nonresidential Buildings:
      1.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
         a.   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in
accordance with the following:
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above
the flood protection elevation;
            (2)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
            (4)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not
incorporated debris or refuse material; and
            (5)   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from
or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary, stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
         b.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with
the following:
            (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts,
piles, walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
            (2)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
            (3)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood
protection elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a
licensed professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening
on each wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2)
openings. The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one
square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
below the base flood elevation; and
            (4)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as
current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (5)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (6)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed.
            (7)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; or
            (8)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
         c.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection elevation; provided, that the following conditions are
met:
            (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
            (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade;
            (3)   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood
protection elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest
adjacent exterior grade;
            (4)   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed
four feet (4') at any point;
            (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period after a flood event;
            (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
            (7)   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
      2.   a. Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation), provided a licensed professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
            (1)   Below the flood protection elevation, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the
effects of the base flood.
            (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and
the impact from debris and ice.
            (3)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
         b.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   C.   Manufactured Homes Or Travel Trailers: Manufactured homes or travel
trailers to be permanently installed on site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B1 of this section; and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   D.   Travel Trailers And Recreational Vehicles: Travel trailers and
recreational vehicles on site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days per
year shall meet the elevation requirements of subsection C of this section
unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck;
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet;
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame to be safe for
movement within the floodplain;
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model; and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Be entirely supported by jacks; or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   E.   Garages, Sheds Or Other Minor Accessory Structures: Garages, sheds or
other minor accessory structures constructed ancillary to an existing
residential use may be permitted, provided the following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The mayor and village board of trustees shall take into account
hazards, to the extent that they are known, in all official actions related to
land management use and development.
   B.   1. New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of sections
10-8-6 and
10-8-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
         a.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain.
Where the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the
applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
         b.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
         c.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act, 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/2.
      2.   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural
streams and channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included
within parks or other public grounds. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
10-8-6 and
10-8-7 of this chapter, the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer, or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
10-8-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-
7-2008)
10-8-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship
on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the village
zoning board of appeals for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall
review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the village board of trustees. The village board of trustees
may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to
further the intent of this chapter.
   B.   Standards For Variance: No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to the public health or safety or
the creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   C.   Effects And Risks Of Approved Variances: The zoning board of appeals
shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of
the building protection standards of section
10-8-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   D.   Historic Landmarks: Variances to the building protection requirements
of section
10-8-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or "historic structure" as defined in
section
10-8-2 of this chapter, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
10-8-6 and
10-8-7 of this chapter, subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-13: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the village board
of trustees to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program
including ordinance 2001-1 and 1981 village code, chapter 16, article XII.
However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance
adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-7-2008)
10-8-14: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Determination Of Violation; Notice: Failure to obtain a permit for
development in the floodplain or failure to comply with the conditions of a
permit or a variance shall be deemed a violation of this chapter. Upon due
investigation, the village attorney may determine that a violation of the
minimum standards of this chapter exists. The village attorney shall notify the
owner in writing of such violation.
   B.   Penalties: If such owner fails, after ten (10) days' notice, to correct
the violation:
      1.   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense;
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      4.   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   C.   Notice Of Insurance And Development Suspension; Hearing:
      1.   The village attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      2.   The village attorney is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      3.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the village board of trustees. Written notice of
such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         a.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         b.   The time and place of the hearing.
      4.   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the village
board of trustees shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   D.   Other Actions: Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking
such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord.
2008-23, 7-7-2008)
CHAPTER 9
FENCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Short Title
10-9-2: Purpose And Intent
10-9-3: Enforcement Official
10-9-4: Compliance With Zoning Regulations
10-9-5: Building Permit Required
10-9-6: General Requirements
10-9-7: Fence Remediation Or Removal
10-9-8: Hardship Cases And Appeal
10-9-9: Violation; Penalty
10-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the FENCE REGULATIONS ORDINANCE of the village.
(Ord. 2009-108, 9-8-2009)
10-9-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish rules, standards,
regulations and requirements for fences located in the jurisdictional limits of
the village in order to promote the general safety and welfare and of persons
and property within the jurisdiction of the village. (Ord. 2009-108, 9-8-2009)
10-9-3: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The enforcement official, as designated by this chapter, shall be the building
inspector, or in the event that office is vacant, the zoning administrator, or
in the event that office is vacant, a person appointed by the village board of
trustees. (Ord. 2009-108, 9-8-2009)
10-9-4: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS:
All fences found within the jurisdiction of the village shall, in addition to
the standards set forth in this chapter, comply with the provisions of the
zoning ordinance, title 11 of this code. (Ord. 2009-108, 9-8-2009)
10-9-5: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
All persons, firms or corporations shall be required to obtain a building
permit prior to installation, erection or enlargement of a fence located within
the village. See chapter 3 of this title for building permit requirements.
(Ord. 2009-108, 9-8-2009)
10-9-6: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
No fence shall be installed, erected or maintained except in strict compliance
with the following requirements:
   A.   Dangerous, Noncompliant Fences: Any fence deemed to be a danger to the
public safety, health or welfare by the administrating official shall not be
permitted and shall be remediated or removed in the manner set forth in section
10-9-7 of this chapter. Any fence determined not in compliance with any
provision of this chapter by the enforcement official shall be remedied
according to the provisions of section
10-9-7 of this chapter.
   B.   Types Of Fences:
      1.   Metal Fences: Metal fences shall be treated and maintained in such a
manner so as to maintain the fence in good structural condition and with an
appearance that is aesthetically compatible with the type of fence it
represents. The use of roofing material and other metals not commonly used for
fencing is expressly prohibited.
      2.   Wood Fences: All wood fences shall be constructed with a wood that
is commonly used for fencing and shall be painted, stained or preserved in such
a manner so as to maintain the fence in good structural condition and with an
appearance that is aesthetically compatible with the type of fence it
represents. The use of plywood, pallets, salvaged lumber, and other wood not
commonly used for fencing is expressly prohibited.
      3.   Masonry Fences: Masonry fences shall only be permitted with the
written consent of the property owner adjacent to and abutting the side of the
property where the fence shall be located.
      4.   Plastic Or Synthetic Material Fences: Any fence made of plastic or
any synthetic material shall be treated and maintained in such a manner so as
to maintain the fence in good structural condition and with an appearance that
is aesthetically compatible with the type of fence it represents.
      5.   Barbed Wire Fences: Barbed wire fences are strictly prohibited
except in the following instances:
         a.   The property is located in an agriculture zoning district, and
the fence shall be used for fencing livestock animals.
         b.   The property is located in a commercial or manufacturing zoning
district, and the fence shall be used for security purposes.
      6.   Electric Fences: Electric fences are strictly prohibited except in
the following instances:
         a.   The property is located in an agriculture zoning district, and
the fence shall be used for fencing livestock animals.
         b.   The property is located in a commercial or manufacturing zoning
district, and the fence shall be used for security purposes.
   C.   Height: All fences shall comply with the height provisions set forth in
title 11, chapter 7 of this code.
   D.   Fences Built On Public Property: Any fence on public property not
expressly permitted by the village shall be removed, upon written notice by the
village, within fifteen (15) days from the issuance date of the notice. Any
fence that is not removed after due notice is given may be removed by the
village at the rate set forth for abatement of nuisances found in section
5-1-1 of this code.
   E.   Maintenance Of Fences: All fences shall be maintained in such a manner
so as to prevent rust, corrosion, deterioration or otherwise so as to be a
public or private nuisance, dilapidated or a danger to adjoining property
owners or the public.
   F.   Existing Fences: Any fence existing on the effective date hereof may
not be enlarged, extended, or replaced except in strict compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 2009-108, 9-8-2009)
10-9-7: FENCE REMEDIATION OR REMOVAL:
Any fence not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to the following requirements and procedures:
   A.   Notice: Notice shall be submitted by the enforcement official to the
property owner of record of the property in violation stating the basis of the
violation.
   B.   Remediation Or Removal: The property owner shall have not more than
fifteen (15) days from the date the notice was issued to either remediate the
violation or remove the fence.
   C.   Failure To Remediate Or Remove: Failure to either remediate or remove
the violation within the specified time shall be a violation of this chapter
and subject to the penalties specified herein. (Ord. 2009-108, 9-8-2009)
10-9-8: HARDSHIP CASES AND APPEAL:
In cases where the requirements of this chapter will be a hardship to the
property owner or when the intended purpose and provisions of this chapter will
not be violated, the property owner may petition to the board of trustees for
issuance of special permit to accommodate all reasonable circumstances. (Ord.
2009-108, 9-8-2009)
10-9-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant, or agent of the same, to occupy
premises within the village and permit any of the conditions enumerated herein,
which are declared a nuisance, to exist. Any person, firm or corporation or
other business entity found in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day the violation continues. (Ord. 2009-108, 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 10
REGISTRATION OF DEFAULTED MORTGAGE AND VACANT PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose And Intent
10-10-2: Definitions
10-10-3: Applicability And Jurisdiction
10-10-4: Establishment Of A Registry
10-10-5: Inspection And Registration Of Defaulted Mortgage
10-10-6: Inspection And Registration Of Real Property That Is Not Subject To A
Mortgage In Default
10-10-7: Maintenance Requirements
10-10-8: Security Requirements
10-10-9: Provisions Supplemental
10-10-10: Public Nuisance
10-10-11: Additional Authority
10-10-12: Immunity Of Enforcement Officer
10-10-13: Violations; Penalties
10-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of the Village to establish a process to address
the deterioration, crime, and decline in value of Village neighborhoods caused
by property with defaulted mortgages located within the Village, and to
identify, regulate, limit and reduce the number of these properties located
within the Village. It has been determined that owner-occupied structures are
generally better maintained when compared to vacant structures, even with a
diligent off-site property owner. Vacant structures or structures owned by
individuals who are economically strained and unable to meet their mortgage
obligations are often not properly or diligently maintained, which contribute
to blight, declined property values, and have a negative impact on social
perception of the residential areas where they are located. It is the Village
Board's further intent to establish a registration program as a mechanism to
help protect neighborhoods from becoming blighted through the lack of adequate
maintenance of properties that are in default or defaulted, and to provide a
mechanism to avert foreclosure actions through timely intervention, education,
or counseling of property owners. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
DEFAULT: The mortgagor has not complied with the terms of the mortgage on the
property, or the promissory note, or other evidence of the debt, referred to in
the mortgage.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any law enforcement officer, building official, zoning
inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, fire inspector, building inspector, or
other person authorized by the Village to enforce the applicable code(s).
EVIDENCE OF VACANCY: Any condition that on its own, or combined with other
conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to: overgrown and/
or dead vegetation; past due utility notices and/or disconnected utilities;
accumulation of trash, junk or debris; abandoned vehicles, auto parts and/or
materials; the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent with
habitation or occupancy; the presence of an unsanitary, stagnant swimming pool;
the accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail; statements by
neighbors, passers-by, delivery agents or government agents; and/or the
presence of boards over doors, windows or other openings in violation of
applicable code.
FORECLOSURE OR FORECLOSURE ACTION: The legal process by which a mortgagee, or
other lien holder, terminates or attempts to terminate a property owner's
equitable right of redemption to obtain legal and equitable title to the real
property pledged as security for a debt or the real property subject to the
lien. The legal process is not concluded until the property obtained by the
mortgagee, lien holder, or their designee, by certificate of title, or any
other means, is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an arm's length
transaction to satisfy the debt or lien.
MORTGAGEE: The creditor, including but not limited to: trustees; mortgage
servicing companies; lenders in a mortgage agreement; any agent, servant, or
employee of the creditor; any successor in interest; or any assignee of the
creditor's rights, interests or obligations under the mortgage agreement; or
any other person or entity with the legal right to foreclose on the real
property, excluding governmental entities.
OWNER: Every person, entity, or mortgagee, who alone or severally with others,
has legal or equitable title to any real property as defined by this chapter;
has legal care, charge, or control of any such property; is in possession or
control of any such property; and/or is vested with possession or control of
any such property. The property manager shall not be considered the owner.
PROPERTY MANAGER: Any party designated by the owner as responsible for
inspecting, maintaining and securing the property as required in this chapter.
REAL PROPERTY: Any residential or commercial land and/or buildings, leasehold
improvements and anything affixed to the land, or portion thereof identified by
a property parcel identification number, located in the Village limits.
REGISTRABLE PROPERTY: Shall mean:
   A.   Any real property located in the Village, whether vacant or occupied,
that is encumbered by a mortgage in default, is subject to an ongoing
foreclosure action by the mortgagee or trustee, has been the subject of a
foreclosure action by a mortgagee or trustee and a judgement has been entered,
or has been the subject of a foreclosure sale where the title was transferred
to the beneficiary of a mortgage involved in the foreclosure and any properties
transferred under a deed in lieu of foreclosure/sale. The designation of a
"default/foreclosure" property as "registrable" shall remain in place until
such time as the property is sold to a non-related bona fide purchaser in an
arm's length transaction or the foreclosure action has been dismissed and any
default on the mortgage has been cured; or
   B.   Any property that is vacant for more than thirty (30) days or any
cancellation of utility or service, whichever occurs first, and that has a
property nuisance, property maintenance, Building Code, and/or ordinance
violation affiliated with or related to the property.
REGISTRY: A record or web-based electronic database of searchable real property
records, used by the Village that requires mortgagees and owners to register
properties and pay applicable fees as required in this chapter.
SEMI-ANNUAL REGISTRATION: Six (6) months from the date of the first action that
requires registration, as determined by the Village, or its designee, and every
subsequent six (6) months. The date of the initial registration may be
different than the date of the fast action that required registration.
UTILITIES AND SERVICES: Any utility and/or service that is essential for a
building to be habitable and/or perform a service necessary to comply with all
Village codes. This includes, but is not limited to, electrical, gas, water,
sewer, and lawn maintenance.
VACANT: Any parcel of land in the Village that contains any building or
structure that is not lawfully occupied. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-3: APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION:
This chapter applies to defaulted and vacant property within the Village. (Ord.
2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF A REGISTRY:
Pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the Village, or its designee, shall
establish a registry cataloging each registrable property within the Village,
containing the information required by this chapter. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-5: INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION OF DEFAULTED MORTGAGE:
   A.   Any mortgagee who holds a mortgage on real property located within the
Village shall perform an inspection of the property upon it being in default or
defaulted by the mortgagor or prior to the issuance of a notice of default.
   B.   Property inspected pursuant to subsection A of this section that
remains in default or defaulted, shall be inspected every thirty (30) days by
the mortgagee or mortgagee's designee. If an inspection shows a change in the
property's occupancy status, the mortgagee shall, within ten (10) days of that
inspection, update the occupancy status of the property registration.
   C.   Within ten (10) days of the date any mortgagee declares its mortgage to
be in default or defaulted, the mortgagee shall register the real property with
the Village registry, and, at the time of registration, indicate whether the
property is vacant, and if so shall designate in writing a property manager to
inspect, maintain and secure the real property subject to the mortgage in
default or defaulted. A separate registration is required for each defaulted
property.
   D.   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain, at a
minimum: the name of the mortgagee; the mailing address of the mortgagee; e-
mail address; telephone number; and name of the property manager and said
person's address, e-mail address, and telephone number.
   E.   At the time of initial registration each registrant shall pay a non-
refundable semi-annual registration fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
for each defaulted property. Subsequent semi-annual registrations of defaulted
properties and fees in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) are
due within ten (10) days of the expiration of the previous registration. Said
fees shall be used to offset the costs of: 1) registration and registration
enforcement, 2) code enforcement and mitigation related to defaulted
properties, and 3) for any related purposes or as may be adopted in the policy
set forth in this chapter. Said fees shall be deposited to an account of the
Village used for the cost of implementation and enforcement of this chapter and
fulfilling the purpose and intent of this chapter. None of the funds provided
for in this section shall be utilized for the legal defense of foreclosure
actions.
   F.   Each individual property on the registry that has been registered for
twelve (12) months or more prior to the effective date shall have thirty (30)
days to renew the registration and pay the one hundred fifty dollar ($150.00)
semi-annual registration fee. Properties registered less than twelve (12)
months prior to the effective date shall renew the registration every six (6)
months from the expiration of the original registration renewal date and shall
pay the one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   G.   If the defaulted mortgage and/or servicing on a property is sold or
transferred, the new mortgagee is subject to all the terms of this chapter.
Within ten (10) days of the transfer, the new mortgagee shall register the
property or update the existing registration. The previous mortgagee(s) will
not be released from the responsibility of paying all previous unpaid fees,
fines, and penalties accrued during that mortgagee's involvement with the
defaulted property.
   H.   If the mortgagee sells or transfers the defaulted property in a non-
arm's length transaction to a related entity or person, the transferee is
subject to all the terms of this chapter. Within ten (10) days of the transfer,
the transferee shall register the property or update the existing registration.
Any and all previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties, regardless of who the
mortgagee was at the time registration was required, including but not limited
to unregistered periods during the foreclosure process, are the responsibility
of the transferee and are due and payable with the updated registration. The
previous mortgagee will not be released from the responsibility of paying all
previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued during that mortgagee's
involvement with the defaulted property.
   I.   This section shall also apply to properties that have been the subject
of a foreclosure sale where title is transferred to the mortgagee as well as
any properties transferred to the mortgagee under a deed in lieu of foreclosure
or by any other legal means.
   J.   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the semi-
annual registration requirement, and the inspection, security, and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the property remains defaulted.
   K.   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
register or to modify the registration to reflect a change of circumstances as
required by this chapter is a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the Village.
   L.   Properties registered as a result of this section are not required to
be registered again pursuant to the real property that is not subject to a
mortgage in default section. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-6: INSPECTION AND REGISTRATION OF REAL PROPERTY THAT IS NOT SUBJECT TO A
MORTGAGE IN DEFAULT:
   A.   Any owner of vacant property located within the Village shall, within
ten (10) days after the property becomes vacant, or within ten (10) days after
assuming ownership of the property, whichever is later, register the real
property with the Village registry.
   B.   Initial registration pursuant to this section shall contain, at a
minimum, the name of the owner, the mailing address of the owner, e-mail
address, and telephone number of the owner, and if applicable, the name and
telephone number of the property manager and said person's address, e-mail
address, and telephone number.
   C.   At the time of initial registration each registrant shall pay a non-
refundable semi-annual registration fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
for each vacant property. Subsequent semi-annual registrations of vacant
properties and fees in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) are
due within ten (10) days of the expiration of the previous registration. Said
fees shall be used to offset the costs of: 1) registration and registration
enforcement, 2) code enforcement and mitigation related to vacant properties,
and 3) for any related purposes or as may be adopted in the policy set forth in
this chapter. Said fees shall be deposited in an account of the Village used
for the cost of implementation and enforcement of this chapter and fulfilling
the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   D.   Each individual property on the registry that has been registered for
twelve (12) months or more prior to the effective date shall have thirty (30)
days to renew the registration and pay the one hundred fifty dollar ($150.00)
semi-annual registration fee. Properties registered less than twelve (12)
months prior to the effective date of this chapter shall renew the registration
every six (6) months from the expiration of the original registration renewal
date and shall pay the one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   E.   If the property is sold or transferred, the new owner is subject to all
the terms of this chapter. Within ten (10) days of the transfer, the new owner
shall register the vacant property or update the existing registration. The
previous owner(s) will not be released from the responsibility of paying all
previous unpaid fees, fines, and penalties accrued during that owner's
involvement with the vacant property.
   F.   Properties subject to this section shall remain subject to the semi-
annual registration requirement, and the inspection, security, and maintenance
standards of this section as long as the property is vacant.
   G.   Failure of the owner to properly register or to modify the registration
to reflect a change of circumstances as required by this chapter is a violation
of this chapter and shall be subject to enforcement by any of the enforcement
means available to the Village.
   H.   Properties registered as a result of this section are not required to
be registered again pursuant to the defaulted mortgage property section. (Ord.
2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-7: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Properties subject to this chapter shall be kept free of weeds,
overgrown brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any
accumulation of newspaper circulars, flyers, notices, except those required by
Federal, State or local law, discarded personal items including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material,
or any other items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   B.   Registrable property shall be maintained free of graffiti or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior structure.
   C.   Front, side, and rear yards, including landscaping, of registrable
property shall be maintained in accordance with the applicable code(s) at the
time registration is required.
   D.   Registrable yard maintenance shall include, but not be limited to,
grass, ground covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative
rock or bark or artificial turf/sod. Acceptable maintenance of yards and/or
landscape shall not include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt or similar
material.
   E.   Maintenance shall include, but not be limited to, watering, irrigation,
cutting and mowing of required ground cover or landscape, and removal of all
trimmings.
   F.   Pools and spas shall be maintained so the water remains free and clear
of pollutants and debris and shall comply with the regulations set forth in the
applicable code(s).
   G.   Failure of the mortgagee, owner, and transferees to properly maintain
the property as required by this chapter may result in a violation of the
applicable code(s) and issuance of a citation or notice of violation in
accordance with the applicable code of the Village. The Village may take the
necessary action to ensure compliance with this section.
   H.   In addition to the above, the property is required to be maintained in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the Village. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-
2018)
10-10-8: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Properties subject to these sections shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   B.   A "secure manner" shall include, but not be limited to, the closure and
locking of windows, doors, gates and other openings of such size that may allow
a child to access the interior of the property or structure. Broken windows,
doors, gates, and other openings of such size that may allow a child to access
the interior of the property or structure must be repaired. Broken windows
shall be secured by re-glazing or replacement of the window.
   C.   If a property is registrable, and the property has become vacant or
blighted, a property manager shall be designated by the mortgagee and/or owner
to perform the work necessary to bring the property into compliance with the
applicable code(s), and the property manager must perform regular inspections
to verify compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and any other
applicable laws.
   D.   In addition to the above, the property is required to be secured in
accordance with the applicable code(s) of the Village.
   E.   When a property subject to this chapter becomes vacant, it shall be
posted with the name and twenty four (24) hour contact telephone number of the
property manager. The property manager shall be available to be contacted by
the Village Monday through Friday between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M., legal holidays excepted. The sign shall be placed in a
window facing the street and shall be visible from the street. The posting
shall be no less than eighteen inches (18") by twenty four inches (24") and
shall be of a font that is legible from a distance of forty five feet (45').
The posting shall contain the following language with supporting information:
THIS PROPERTY IS MANAGED BY    
AND IS INSPECTED ON A REGULAR BASIS.
THE PROPERTY MANAGER CAN BE CONTACTED BY TELEPHONE AT    
OR BY EMAIL AT    .
   F.   The posting required in subsection E of this section shall be placed on
the interior of a window facing the street to the front of the property so that
it is visible from the street, or secured to the exterior of the building/
structure facing the street to the front of the property so that it is visible
from the street or if no such area exists, on a stake of sufficient size to
support the posting in a location that is at all times visible from the street
to the front of the property but not readily accessible to vandals. Exterior
posting shall be constructed of and printed with weather-resistant materials.
   G.   Failure of the mortgagee and/or property owner of record to properly
inspect and secure a property subject to this chapter, and post and maintain
the signage noted in this section, is a violation and shall be subject to
enforcement by any of the enforcement means available to the Village. The
Village may take the necessary action to ensure compliance with this section
and recover costs and expenses in support thereof. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-9: PROVISIONS SUPPLEMENTAL:
The provisions of this chapter are cumulative with and in addition to other
available remedies. Nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the
Village from collecting on fees, fines, and penalties in any lawful manner; or
enforcing its codes by any other means, including, but not limited to,
injunction, abatement, or as otherwise provided by law or ordinance. (Ord.
2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-10: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
All registrable property is at risk of being a public nuisance and if vacant or
blighted can constitute a public nuisance, the abatement of which, pursuant to
the police power, is hereby declared to be necessary for the health, welfare,
and safety of the residents of the Village. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-11: ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   If the Enforcement Officer has reason to believe that a property
subject to the provisions of this chapter is posing a serious threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare, the Code Enforcement Officer may abate the
property pursuant to any applicable Village code necessary to secure the
property at the expense of the mortgagee or owner. Nothing herein shall limit
the Village from abating any nuisance or unsafe condition by any other legal
means available to it.
   B.   The code enforcement official or court of competent jurisdiction shall
have the authority to require the mortgagee or owner affected by this section,
to implement additional maintenance and/or security measures including, but not
limited to, securing any and all doors, windows or other openings, or other
measures as may be reasonably required to help prevent further decline of the
property.
   C.   If the mortgagee or owner does not reimburse the Village for the cost
of temporarily securing the property, or of any abatement directed or performed
by the code enforcement official, within thirty (30) days of the Village
sending the mortgagee or owner the invoice, the Village may lien the property
with such cost, along with an administrative fee as determined in the Village's
Fee Ordinance to recover the administrative personnel services. In addition to
filing a lien the Village may pursue financial penalties against the mortgagee
or owner.
   D.   The Village may contract with an entity to implement this chapter, and,
if so, any reference to the Enforcement Officer herein shall include the entity
the Village contracts with for that purpose. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-12: IMMUNITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
Any Enforcement Officer or any person authorized by the Village to enforce the
sections of this chapter shall be immune from prosecution, civil or criminal,
for reasonable, good faith entry upon real property while in the discharge of
duties imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
10-10-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations: Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, a violation
of this chapter is declared unlawful.
   B.   Remedies: If any property is in violation of this chapter, the Village
may take the necessary action to ensure compliance and/or place a lien on the
property for the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost
incurred to put the property into compliance.
   C.   Interference With Enforcement Officials: Whoever opposes, obstructs or
resists any Enforcement Officer or any person authorized by the Enforcement
Office in the discharge of duties as provided in this chapter, shall be
punishable as provided in the applicable code(s) or as deemed appropriate by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Late Fees: If any default or vacant property subject to this chapter is
not registered as required or either the registration fee or the semi-annual
registration fee is not paid within thirty (30) days of when the registration
or semi-annual registration is required, a late fee equivalent to ten percent
(10%) of the semi- annual registration fee shall be charged for every thirty
(30) day period, or portion thereof, the property is not registered and shall
be due and payable with the registration. This section shall apply to the
initial registration and registrations required by subsequent owners of the
defaulted or vacant property.
   E.   Liens: If any property is in violation of this chapter, the Village may
take the necessary action to ensure compliance with and place a lien on the
property for the cost of the outstanding obligation and any additional cost
incurred to the property into compliance, including costs for the preparation
of, recording of, and release of the lien.
   F.   Attorney's Fees; Costs Of Suit: Should the code enforcement official or
other designated party of the Village pursue a violation of this chapter in a
court of competent jurisdiction against a party subject to the requirements of
this chapter, said party shall be responsible to pay, in addition to any fees
or costs required pursuant to this chapter, any and all fees incurred by the
Village to pursue such violation or enforcement, including reasonable
attorney's fees and costs of suit. (Ord. 2018-55, 10-18-2018)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE of the village.
(Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 2
PURPOSE AND INTENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: General Purpose And Intent
11-2-2: Specific Purposes
11-2-3: Severability
11-2-1: GENERAL PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the general purpose and intent of this title to protect the public health
and general welfare of the village by establishing standards and regulations
for the orderly use and development of land while giving consideration to the
comprehensive planning policies and the social, environmental, economic and
physical development goals and objectives of the village and its citizens
pursuant to this title and the authorities of division 13, zoning, and division
14, setback lines, of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-2-2: SPECIFIC PURPOSES:
In addition to this general purpose and intent, this title or portions thereof
are further intended to give effect to the following specific purposes:
   A.   To provide for the orderly and functional arrangement of land uses and
buildings.
   B.   To establish standards for the orderly development or redevelopment of
geographic areas within the village.
   C.   To facilitate the adequate and economical provision of transportation,
water, sewage disposal, stormwater drainage, schools, parks and other public
facilities.
   D.   To conserve and protect natural resources including prime agricultural
land, mineral resources and areas of scientific interest.
   E.   To permit public involvement in the planning of private land uses which
have the potential for significant impact on the use and enjoyment of
surrounding property or on the public resources and facilities of the
community.
   F.   To secure for the public, locations for housing, employment, shopping,
education and recreation that are adequate in terms of health, safety,
convenience and number.
   G.   To conserve and protect the taxable value of land, buildings and
neighborhoods in the community.
   H.   To protect the air, water and land resources within the village from
hazards of pollution and misuse.
   I.   To protect land and buildings from natural hazards, including flooding
and erosion.
   J.   To preserve and protect historic locations, structures, and groups of
structures.
   K.   To preserve, protect and encourage the development of buildings, groups
of buildings and neighborhoods of distinguished architectural character and
appearance.
   L.   To promote any area master or developmental plans adopted by the
village and coordinate any said plans with land use plans adopted by other
governmental entities. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-2-3: SEVERABILITY:
If any of the provisions of this title, or amendments hereto, or the
application hereof, to any lot, building or other structure or tract of land
are declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective,
in whole or in part, or to be inapplicable to any person or situation, the
effect of such decision shall be limited to the provision which is expressly
stated in the decision to be invalid or ineffective, or to the lot, building or
other structure or tract of land immediately involved in the controversy. Such
judgment shall not affect the application of the provisions of this title to
any other property, building or structure not specifically included in said
judgment. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 3
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Rules Of Construction
11-3-2: Definitions
11-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction, unless the context clearly
requires a different construction:
   A.   The singular includes the plural and the plural the singular;
   B.   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future tense includes the present;
   C.   When used in connection with an action of an owner or developer, the
word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive;
   D.   Terms connoting a particular gender shall include each and every
gender;
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof,
and any word appearing in parentheses between a word and its definition shall
be construed in the same sense as that word;
   F.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot; if a
fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or more, the integral foot next above shall be
taken;
   G.   All words and terms not defined herein shall be construed in their
generally accepted meanings; and
   H.   All provisions of this title imposing duties upon the village, its
officers or agents are directory, unless the context clearly requires the
provision be construed as mandatory. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009)
11-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, phrases and terms, wherever they occur in this title,
shall be interpreted as herein defined:
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.
101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P. A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (P. A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ALLEY: A public way which affords only secondary means of access to abutting
properties.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building between floor and ceiling which is partly
below and partly above grade but so located that the vertical distance from
grade to the floor is less than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of one or more
streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, corporation
boundary lines, or other lines of demarcation.
BUILDABLE AREA: The portion of a lot remaining after the yard requirements
(front, rear and side) have been fulfilled.
BUILDING: Any structure which is built for the support, shelter, or enclosure
of persons, animals, or movable property of any kind which is more or less
permanently affixed to the land.
BUILDING AREA: The area bounded by the exterior dimensions of the outer walls
at the ground line.
CAMPING EQUIPMENT: May include, but is not limited to: mobile homes, travel
trailers, pickup coaches, motor homes, camping trailers, domestic utility
trailers, boats, jet skis, and all other major camping or recreational
equipment.
CLUSTER SUBDIVISION: Three (3) or more adjacent zoning lots, each of which is
to be improved with a single-family detached dwelling, zero lot line two-family
dwelling or zero lot line multiple-family dwelling, with the dwellings in the
subdivision established on smaller lots than in conventional residential
neighborhoods.
CODE: This title 11, the zoning code.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: Any place or premises principally used for the sale,
dispensing, or serving of food, refreshments, beverages or other goods in
motorized vehicles, including those establishments where customers may serve
themselves and may consume the food, refreshments, beverages, or other goods on
or off the premises.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof which is designed for or used for
residential purposes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY (APARTMENT): A building or portion thereof containing
three (3) or more dwelling units. The number of families in the residence shall
not exceed the number of dwelling units provided.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached residential dwelling unit, other than a
mobile home, designed for and occupied by one family only.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX): A residential building containing two (2)
dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling,
which are arranged, designed, used or intended for use exclusively as living
quarters for one family and not more than an aggregate of two (2) roomers not
so related, and which includes complete kitchen and bathing facilities
permanently installed.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or legal adoption, or
other means of legal custody, occupying a dwelling and living as a single
housekeeping unit, and doing their own cooking on the premises.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross
floor area of a building or buildings by the total area of the lot or parcel of
land on which such building or buildings is located.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building housing not more than four (4) motor
vehicles for the personal use of the owner or occupant only, and not for
commercial use or gain.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building available to the public which is used for storage,
repair, rental, greasing, washing, servicing, adjusting, selling or equipping
of automobiles or other motor vehicles for commercial use or gain.
HOME OCCUPATION: A gainful occupation or profession customarily carried on by
an occupant of a dwelling unit as a use which is clearly incidental to the use
of the dwelling unit for residential purposes.
   A.   The "home occupation" shall be carried on wholly within the principal
building or within a building accessory thereto, and only by members of the
family occupying the premises and one person outside the family.
   B.   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises except
such as is produced by the occupation on the premises, and no mechanical or
electrical equipment shall be installed or maintained other than such as is
customarily incidental to domestic use.
   C.   There shall be no exterior storage of materials, no other exterior
indication of the "home occupation" or variation from the residential character
of the principal building, and no offensive noise, odors, vibration, smoke,
dust, heat or glare shall be produced.
   D.   A sign is permitted not more than three (3) square feet in area.
   E.   Offices, clinics, doctors' offices, hospitals, barbershops, tearooms,
restaurants, beauty parlors or hair salons, dress shops, millinery shops,
tourist homes, animal hospitals and kennels, among others, shall not be deemed
to be "home occupations".
JUNKYARD: Any land or structure used for a salvaging operation including, among
other things, the storage and sale of wastepaper, toys, scrap metal, and
discarded materials, and the collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of
unlicensed, inoperative vehicles.
KENNEL: Any premises or portions thereof on which four (4) or more dogs, cats,
or other household domestic animals over four (4) months of age are kept or on
which more than two (2) such animals are maintained, bred, or cared for, for
remuneration or sale.
LAUNDROMAT: An establishment providing home type washing, drying, or ironing
machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
LOT: When used alone, shall mean a zoning lot, unless the context of this title
clearly indicates otherwise.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of a block.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public
street; for a corner lot, the owner may elect either street line as the front
lot line.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front property line of a zoning lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A side lot line common with another lot or lots.
LOT LINE, REAR: The rear lot line is the lot line or lot lines most nearly
parallel to and most remote from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines are side lot
lines.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
right angles to the mean lot line at the established front building line.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING OR MODULAR HOME: A building assembly, or systems of
building subassemblies, designed for habitation as a dwelling for one or more
persons, which includes the necessary electrical, plumbing, heating,
ventilating, and other service systems, is of closed or open construction, is
made or assembled by a manufacturer either on or off the building site for
installation, or assembly and installation, on the building site, and has a
permanent foundation. Manufactured housing, when referenced, does not include
mobile homes.
MOBILE HOME: A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed
as to permit its transport on wheels (temporarily or permanently attached to
its frame, from the place of its construction to the location, or subsequent
locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons).
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area of land or lands upon which two (2) or more
independent mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park.
MOTOR COURT OR MOTEL: A series of attached, semiattached or detached sleeping
or living units, each with its own bathroom and designed for the accommodation
of automobile transient guests.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or premises in which freight is received or
dispatched by motor vehicle.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure which does not
comply with all of the regulations of this title, or any amendment hereto,
governing parking, loading or bulk and space requirements for the district in
which such building or structure is located; or that is located on a lot that
does not, or is so located on a lot as not to, comply with the yard or setback
requirements for the zoning district in which such building or structure is
located.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any use lawfully being made of any land, building or
structure on the effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto rendering such
use nonconforming, that does not comply with all of the regulations of this
code, or any such amendment hereto, governing use for the district in which
such land, building or structure is located. A use lawfully in existence at the
effective date hereof, or amendment hereto that would hereafter require special
exception approval from the zoning board of appeals and board of trustees shall
not be deemed a nonconforming use.
NOXIOUS MATTER: Material which is capable of causing injury or malaise to
living organisms by chemical reaction, or is capable of causing detrimental
effects upon the health or the psychological, social, or economic well being of
human beings.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A home for the care of persons who are unable to
care for themselves, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders,
but not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for
surgical care.
OPEN SALES LOT: Any land used or occupied for the purpose of buying and selling
merchandise, passenger cars, trucks, any form of trailers, motor scooters,
motorcycles, boats and monuments, or for the storing of same prior to sale.
PARK: Any publicly owned park, playground, parkway or roadway within the
jurisdiction of the village or any other park or playground not operated for
profit.
PARKING SPACE: An all weather surfaced area within the lot lines, enclosed in
the main building, in an accessory building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size
to store one standard automobile. For purposes of interpreting this definition,
a "parking space" shall be deemed to be not less than nine feet by twenty feet
(9' x 20') in size, with adequate provision for egress and ingress.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion established to control noise, odor, smoke,
particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosion
hazards, or glare or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or
buildings.
RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT: May include, but is not limited to: mobile homes,
travel trailers, pickup coaches, motor homes, camping trailers, domestic
utility trailers, boats, jet skis, and all other major camping or recreational
equipment.
REZONING: See definition of Zoning Map Amendment.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building or portion thereof, other than a hotel, occupied by a
family, or not more than three (3) persons who are not members of a family, who
pay compensation for lodging and meals.
SCREENING: A structure, or densely planted vegetation serving as a screen,
designed to conceal from view the area behind it.
SERVICE STATION, FILLING STATION, GAS STATION: Any building or premises whose
principal use is the dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail of any
motor vehicle fuel or oils. Open storage shall be limited to no more than four
(4) vehicles stored for minor repair bearing current license plates. Such
storage shall not exceed seventy two (72) hours' duration and shall not permit
the storage of wrecked vehicles.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance permitted between the front, side, or
rear line of a building, disregarding steps and unroofed porches, and the
nearest property line, street or alley right of way line.
SIGNS: Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names, or trademarks by which information is made known
and which are used to advertise or promote an individual, firm, association,
corporation, profession, business, commodity, or product, and which is visible
from any public street, highway or pedestrianway.
STREET: A public way established or dedicated by duly recorded plat, deed,
grant, or governmental authority, or by operation of law.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between the street and the lot, otherwise
designated as the property line.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, excepting such
alterations as may be required for the safety of the building.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or
less permanent location on the ground, or which is attached to something
permanently located on the ground.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular, portable structure, built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards, if any, of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. It may be either a permitted or special use.
USE, SPECIAL (BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT): A use of such variable nature as to make
control by rigid preregulation impractical. After due consideration in each
case, the village board of trustees, after receiving the report and
recommendations of the zoning board of appeals relative to the impact of such
use upon neighboring land, and of the public need for particular use of a
particular location, may or may not grant the special use.
VARIANCE: A modification of the specific requirements of this title granted by
the village board of trustees in accordance with the terms of this title for
the purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity and district.
YARD: A space on the same lot with a main building, open, unoccupied and
unobstructed by structures, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FRONT: An open, unoccupied space between the front line of the building
and the front street line. The front line of the building shall be the line of
the main wall nearest to and facing on the street, including sun parlors and
enclosed porches, and excluding only steps below the first floor level and
entranceways, open, unroofed porches and terraces, and fences and walls not
more than three and one-half feet (31/2') in height.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the rear
of the main building and the rear lot line unoccupied other than by accessory
buildings which do not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the required
rear space, the depth of which is the least distance between the rear lot line
and the rear of such main building.
YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the side line of the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard.
ZERO LOT LINE MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: One dwelling unit attached to not less
than two (2) other nor more than four (4) other dwelling units by party walls,
with each dwelling unit located on separate lots.
ZERO LOT LINE TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: One dwelling unit attached to one other
dwelling unit by a party wall, with each dwelling unit located on separate
lots.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The zoning board of appeals of the village of
Heyworth.
ZONING CODE: This title 11.
ZONING LOT: A single parcel of land, which is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit under
single ownership or control. A "zoning lot" may be subsequently subdivided into
two (2) or more zoning lots. A "zoning lot" may or may not coincide with a lot
shown on any recorded subdivision plat or deed.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps incorporated into this title as a part hereof,
designating zoning districts.
ZONING MAP AMENDMENT: An amendment to a zoning district classification.
ZONING TEXT AMENDMENT: An amendment to the text of this title. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2019-74, 12-19-2019)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Interpretation
11-4-2: Application
11-4-3: General Regulations And Exemptions
11-4-4: Accessory Buildings And Uses
11-4-5: Lots And Yards
11-4-6: Street Frontage And Access
11-4-7: Nonconformities
11-4-8: Adult-Use Cannabis
11-4-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements deemed necessary for the promotion
of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or other
private agreement; provided, that where the requirements of this title are more
restrictive than such easements, covenants or private agreements, the
requirements of this title shall govern.
   C.   To the extent that a building, structure or use not lawfully existing
at the effective date hereof is in conflict with the requirements of this
title, said building, structure or use shall remain unlawful hereunder.
   D.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title are either
more or less restrictive than conditions imposed by any other provisions of the
Illinois municipal code or any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation applicable to property or to the use of property within the village,
the regulation which is more restrictive or which imposes the higher standard
or requirement shall govern. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-4-2: APPLICATION:
The regulations and requirements for the districts established by this title
are to apply uniformly to each class or kind of use, structure or land.
Whenever, in the course of applying and enforcing this title, it is necessary
or desirable to make any administrative decisions, unless other standards are
provided for in this title, the decision is to be made so that the result will
be neither contrary to the spirit, intent, and purpose of this title nor
injurious to the surrounding neighborhood. In addition hereto:
   A.   No person shall hereafter use or occupy a building, structure or land,
or establish a use, or construct, reconstruct, erect, place, move, structurally
alter or maintain any building, structure or part thereof within the village
unless such use, building, structure or land is in conformity with all the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located or
otherwise herein permitted.
   B.   It shall be the duty, obligation and responsibility of the owner of
property within the village to permit and maintain its use and occupancy only
in strict accordance with the requirements of this title.
   C.   No person shall hereinafter use any part of a lot, yard or other open
space or off street parking or loading space in violation of or in connection
with any use or structure that does not comply with provisions and purposes of
this title. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-4-3: GENERAL REGULATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Building Under Construction: Where a building permit has been lawfully
issued pursuant to title 10, chapter 3 of the village code, such building and
uses shall be subject to the provisions of this title pertaining to
nonconforming buildings and uses if the building or use is nonconforming.
   B.   Uses And Structures: The following uses are exempted by this title and
are permitted in all districts: light poles, traffic regulatory signs,
directional signs, street name signs, utility poles, wires, cables, conduits,
vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves, railroad rights of way containing
railroad tracks, public rights of way, and temporary buildings at construction
sites, gas regulator stations, sewage lift stations, water wells and pumping
stations, when located underground.
   C.   Height Regulations: The following uses and structures are exempted from
the height regulations in this title: church spires, belfries, cupolas, water
tanks, flagpoles, public monuments, farm buildings, ventilators, or other
appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and not
intended for human occupancy. Heights for signs shall be regulated by chapter
10 of this title.
   D.   Telecommunications Antennas And Facilities: Telecommunications antennas
and telecommunications antenna facilities shall be permitted, subject to, and
governed by chapter 9 of this title and to the extent not inconsistent with the
provisions of this title.
   E.   Existing Lawful Buildings, Structures And Uses: Any building,
structure, or use lawfully existing at the effective date hereof may be
continued except those building, structures or uses now considered
nonconforming, which shall hereinafter be subject to the provisions of section
11-4-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-4-4: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES:
On a lot devoted to a permitted principal use, customary accessory uses and
structures are authorized as specifically, or by necessary implication, set
forth in this or any code, ordinance, rule or regulation applicable to the
village. The following requirements are applicable to all accessory structures
and uses, in addition to the requirements for accessory off street parking
facilities as set forth in chapter 11 of this title:
   A.   Compatible With Existing Use: Accessory buildings, structures and uses
shall be compatible with the principal uses and shall not be established prior
to the establishment of the principal use.
   B.   Structures For Charitable Organizations: The temporary outdoor storage
(in shipping containers, storage containers, or in trailers) of materials for
charitable and philanthropic organizations shall be permitted in front, rear,
and side yards as an accessory use; provided, that such temporary outdoor
storage use shall not be located in any way that impedes the use of any
required off street parking or loading spaces required by chapter 11 of this
title. Such containers shall not be permitted on a site more than ninety (90)
days in any calendar year.
   C.   Bulk Requirements: An accessory building or structure hereafter
constructed, erected, placed, structurally altered, enlarged or moved, except
as otherwise permitted in this title, shall be subject to the following bulk
requirements:
      1.   No accessory building or structure shall be permitted within the
required front or side yards of a lot, as set forth in each district. (For
exemptions see section
11-4-5 of this chapter.)
      2.   No accessory building or structure shall be permitted nearer than
ten feet (10') from the nearest wall of a principal building nor shall it be
located nearer than three feet (3') from a side or rear lot line. No accessory
building or structure shall be located or placed on any easement. No accessory
buildings shall be permitted nearer than ten feet (10') to an alley right of
way line when the entrance to the accessory building for motor vehicles is
parallel to and facing such alley right of way line.
      3.   No accessory building or structure in a residential district shall
exceed one story or fifteen feet (15') in height (whichever is less). Accessory
buildings or structures in all other districts may be constructed to equal the
permitted height in that district. The foregoing height limits shall not apply
to telecommunications antennas and telecommunications antenna facilities
authorized pursuant to chapter 9 of this title.
      4.   The gross floor area of an accessory building or structure to be
constructed in any zoning district shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
rear yard of the lot on which such accessory building is to be constructed. The
gross floor area of an accessory building or structure to be constructed in
residential districts shall not exceed the ground floor area of the principal
building located on the same lot nor one thousand (1,000) square feet,
whichever is less.
      5.   No manufactured home, mobile home or other similar portable
structure or building shall be used as an accessory building or structure
except when used incidentally to and temporarily for construction operations of
a principal use; provided, however, lawn equipment storage buildings not
exceeding one hundred forty four (144) square feet in area and a maximum height
of twelve feet (12') to the highest point on such buildings are permitted as
accessory buildings. It shall be unlawful to use any portable on demand storage
container or other similar portable structure as an accessory building or
accessory structure located on any residential district lot except when used
temporarily during construction or moving operations of a principal use. Such
portable containers or structures shall be removed from such residential
district lot within fourteen (14) consecutive days after the date of completion
of such construction or moving operations.
      6.   An accessory building which is attached to a principal building
shall be considered as a part of the principal building and shall be subject to
all regulations governing the location of principal buildings.
      7.   An accessory building which is not attached to a principal building
may contain a rooming unit as an accessory use; provided, that such rooming
unit is occupied by a person who is related by blood, adoption, or marriage to
a member of the family occupying the single-family dwelling in the principal
building located on the same lot as such accessory building; or provided, that
such rooming unit is occupied by a household servant employed by the family
occupying the single-family dwelling in such principal building.
      8.   No incinerator shall be hereafter constructed, erected, placed,
structurally altered, or enlarged in or within two thousand feet (2,000') of
property zoned residential.
   D.   Home Occupations: A home occupation or profession shall be permitted as
an accessory use in any dwelling unit located in a residential district subject
to the following restrictions:
      1.   Such home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit;
      2.   No special outside entrance shall be required or provided in
connection with the home occupation;
      3.   The total floor area devoted to such home occupation shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit,
nor more than twenty five percent (25%) of the gross floor area of any story
devoted to such use, nor more than two hundred (200) square feet of floor area
if such use is conducted in an accessory building;
      4.   No sign is used, other than a nameplate not more than two (2) square
feet in area, and no other exterior display or activity indicating that a
building is being used for a home occupation shall be permitted;
      5.   There are no commodities sold or services rendered that require
receipt and delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment by other than ordinary
mail or parcel post;
      6.   There is no person other than members of the family residing in the
dwelling unit employed or otherwise engaged in such home occupation; and
      7.   There are no accessory buildings used in whole or in part. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009)
      8.   Health spas, motor vehicle repair garages and similar activities are
prohibited as home occupations. A daycare home is permitted as a home
occupation only within a dwelling unit where the daycare home operator is
licensed by the Illinois department of children and family services under the
Illinois child care act of 1969, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1 et seq.
(Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      9.   a. A barbershop, hair salon, beauty shop or massage therapy studio
shall be located entirely within a dwelling unit and shall not exceed a floor
area of more than three hundred (300) square feet, nor more than one chair for
performing professional barbershop or beauty shop services nor, more than one
customer table for performing professional massage therapy to not more than one
customer at a time by appointment only. It shall be unlawful for more than one
barbershop, beauty shop or massage therapy customer motor vehicle to be parked
at any one time either in the site's driveway or in the street along the site's
front lot line.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a
barbershop, hair salon or beauty shop unless said person is licensed by the
state of Illinois to operate a barbershop, hair salon or beauty shop. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009)
      10.   A professional person may use his dwelling for consultation or
performance of religious rites, but not for the general practice of the
profession. An instructor of music or dance shall be permitted to instruct not
more than one pupil at a time in any dwelling unit or accessory building. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      11.   A person may use his dwelling for occasional sales to the public,
provided such sales occur no more than twelve (12) days per calendar year.
      12.   Garage sales may be conducted as a home occupation, provided no
more than three (3) sales are held per year at any one residence, and such
sales last no more than twelve (12) days per year.
   E.   Telecommunications Antenna Facilities: Telecommunications antenna
facilities shall be permitted only as an accessory structure on protected
residential property and shall conform to the requirements provided in chapter
9 of this title. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-4-5: LOTS AND YARDS:
   A.   General Lot And Yard Requirements: The following lot and yard
regulations shall apply to all lots or tracts of land on which the structure is
located:
      1.   The minimum yard space required for one structure or use shall not
again be considered as the yard of any other, including an adjoining structure
or use.
      2.   Yards required by this title shall be located on the same lot as the
principal building or use.
      3.   No lot shall hereafter be divided into two (2) or more lots, and no
part of a lot shall be sold unless all resultant lots conform to all yard
regulations in the district where the lot is located unless such sale is to the
owner of any adjoining lot.
      4.   Where a lot is zoned into a commercial district or manufacturing
district, as provided by chapter 7 of this title and is contiguous to or across
an alley from a lot zoned in a residence district, also provided by chapter 7
of this title, the side yard and rear yard required by subsection 11-7-2F of
this title in said residence district shall be provided in the side yard and
rear yard of the lot in said commercial district and manufacturing district
that are contiguous to or across the alley from the lot in said residence
district.
      5.   The maintenance of yards and other open space and minimum lot area
legally required for a building shall be a continuing obligation of the owner
of such building or of the property on which it is located, as long as the
building is in existence.
      6.   No legally required yards, other open space or minimum lot area
allocated to any building, shall, by virtue of change of ownership or for any
other reason, be used to satisfy yards, other open space, or minimum lot area
requirements for any other building.
      7.   No yards, now or hereafter provided for a building existing on the
effective date hereof, shall subsequently be reduced below or further reduced
if already less than the minimum yard requirements of this title for equivalent
new construction.
      8.   Where a front yard setback has been established by buildings
existing on lots having a frontage of fifty percent (50%) or more of the total
frontage on one side of that portion of any street lying between two (2)
intersecting streets, there shall be maintained a front yard setback of not
less than the average setback of the aforementioned existing buildings.
   B.   Visibility Regulations For Clear Sight Distance:
      1.   Street Intersections: Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or
allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede visibility between a height of
two and one-half feet (21/2') and ten feet (10') above the top curb line grades
of intersecting streets in the area defined by the visibility triangles
illustrated in section
11-12-1, figure 2, of this title.
      2.   Intersections Of Streets With Alleys And Driveways: At the
intersection of a public or private street with a public or private driveway or
alley, no landscaping shall be placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a
manner as to impede visibility between a height of two and one-half feet (21/
2') and ten feet (10') above the curb top elevation of the street within the
visibility triangle area formed by the street curb line intersection with the
driveway or alley pavement line, and with the hypotenuse (third side of the
triangle) connecting said curb line and said pavement line at distances from
their intersection equal to twenty feet (20') along the driveway or alley line
and thirty feet (30') along the street curb line.
      3.   U.S. Highway 51: Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or
allowed to grow within a distance of thirty five feet (35') of the outside
right of way line on either side of new U.S. Highway 51 as located within the
village territorial limits.
   C.   Transitional Area Regulations:
      1.   Front Yards: When the front yard or any lot hereafter rezoned into a
commercial or manufacturing district is contiguous to or across a street or
alley from any lot zoned residential, the following transitional front yard
shall be provided:
         a.   The owner or developer of such lot rezoned into a commercial or
manufacturing district shall provide along the entire width of such lot a front
yard with a depth equal to or greater than the required front yard for such
residential zoned lot.
         b.   Off street parking in the front yard required by chapter 11 of
this title shall be prohibited.
      2.   Side And Rear Yards: When the side yard and/or rear yard of any lot
hereafter rezoned into a commercial or manufacturing district is contiguous to
or across an alley from any lot rezoned residential, the following transitional
yard requirements shall apply:
         a.   The owner or developer of such lot rezoned into a commercial or
manufacturing district shall provide a transitional side yard having a minimum
depth of ten feet (10') in addition to the required side yard for said rezoned
lot. Such transitional side yard shall be provided along the side lot line that
is contiguous to or across an alley from any lot zoned residential.
         b.   The owner or developer of said rezoned lots shall provide a
transitional rear yard having a minimum depth of fifteen feet (15') in addition
to the required rear yard for said rezoned lot. Said transitional rear yard
shall be provided along the rear lot line that is contiguous to or across an
alley from any lot rezoned residential.
      3.   Land Use Restrictions: No automobile service stations, car washes or
drive-in eating or drinking establishments shall hereafter be permitted closer
than one hundred twenty feet (120') to the district boundary line of a
residential district.
      4.   Building Height Restrictions: Where any lot hereafter rezoned into a
commercial or manufacturing district is contiguous to or across an alley from
any lot rezoned residential, the height of buildings on said lot shall not
exceed the height permitted on such lot rezoned residential.
   D.   Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards: No obstructions shall be
allowed in any yard required by this title. However, the following shall not be
considered to be obstructions when located in required yards specified, subject
to the requirements to maintain visibility at intersections contained in
subsection B of this section:
      1.   In all required yards: sills, belt cornices, and other architectural
features extending not more than eighteen inches (18") into the yard; awnings
or canopies projecting into a required yard not more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the required yard depth; steps, including required fire escapes or
ramps necessary for access to buildings or lots; chimneys projecting two feet
(2') or less into a required yard; arbors and trellises; flagpoles; air
conditioner compressors; and trees and shrubs or like kind.
      2.   In required front yards: bay windows projecting three feet (3') or
less into the required front yard; open terraces, decks or balconies not
projecting over ten feet (10') into the required front yard; eaves and gutters;
fuel, air and water pumps in conjunction with automobile service stations,
provided they shall be set back at least thirteen feet (13') from the front lot
line; canopies over fuel pumps; fences and walls not exceeding four feet (4')
in height in the required front yard in residential district and eight feet
(8') in height in all other districts except for nonresidential uses. The
maximum fence height shall be measured from the established grade of the fence
owner's property.
      3.   In required side yards: eaves and gutters projecting two feet (2')
or less; off street parking facilities as provided in chapter 11 of this title;
refuse storage areas (dumpsters); fences and walls not to exceed three and one-
half feet (31/2') in height in residential districts and eight feet (8') in
height in all other districts except for nonresidential uses. The maximum fence
height shall be measured from the established grade of the fence owner's
property.
      4.   In required rear yards: off street parking facilities as provided in
chapter 11 of this title; detached residential garages or carports; swimming
pools, tennis courts and other similar recreational facilities; storage
buildings permitted as accessory uses; balconies; open porches, terraces and
decks; refuse storage areas (dumpsters); bay windows projecting three feet (3')
or less into the required rear yard; eaves and gutters, provided eaves and
gutters of accessory buildings are not closer than two feet (2') from a lot
line; and fences and walls of height specified in chapter 7 of this title.
(Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-4-6: STREET FRONTAGE AND ACCESS:
No lot shall contain any structure used as a dwelling unless it abuts and has
primary means of access to at least fifty feet (50') of public or private
street frontage unless otherwise provided in this title. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-
2009)
11-4-7: NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Intent: If, within the districts established by this title or
amendments that may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of
land or structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before the
effective date hereof or amendments hereto but which would now be prohibited,
regulated, or restricted under the adoption or amendment to this title, it is
the intent of this title to permit these nonconformities to continue until they
are removed or reconstructed as stated herein; however, it is not the intent of
this title to encourage the survival of the nonconformity under the terms of
this title. It is further the intent of this title that nonconformities shall
not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding
other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   B.   General Requirements:
      1.   Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of a
structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of structure and
land in combination shall not be extended or enlarged after the effective date
hereof by attachment on a building or by the addition of other uses of a nature
which would be prohibited generally in the district involved.
      2.   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this title shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
to any actual construction that lawfully began and has been diligently
constructed prior to the effective date hereof or amendment hereto. "Actual
construction" is hereby defined to include the placing of construction material
in permanent position and fastened in a permanent manner. Where excavation or
demolition or removal of an existing building has been substantially begun
preparatory to rebuilding, such excavation, demolition or removal shall be
deemed to be actual construction; provided, that work shall be carried on
diligently.
   C.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: In any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on a lot of record which becomes nonconforming as to
lot area or lot width, or both, by the effective date hereof or subsequent
amendment hereto, or in any other residential district, a building and
customary accessory buildings may be erected on a lot of record which becomes
nonconforming as to lot width by the subsequent amendment hereof; provided,
that the building, housing, mechanical, electrical, plumbing and other
construction standards and requirements can be met; and provided further, that
if such nonconforming lot of record is, at the effective date hereof or
hereafter, vacant and is contiguous with one or more other vacant conforming or
nonconforming lots of record which are in common ownership or unified control,
then such contiguous lots of record, or at least such portion thereof as is
necessary to meet or exceed the minimum lot area and width requirements of the
district in which they are located, shall be used and developed only as a
single lot. Any person who conveys property or terminates the unified control
of such contiguous lots of record so as to frustrate the purpose of the
foregoing proviso shall be deemed to have violated the provisions of this
title.
   D.   Nonconforming Structures: Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date hereof or amendment hereto that could not be built under the
terms of this title by reasons of restrictions on the area, lot coverage,
height, yards, its location on the lot or other zoning requirements concerning
the structure, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity.
      2.   Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than fifty percent
(50%) of its fair cash market value prior to the time of destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
      3.   Should such nonconforming structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatsoever, it shall thereafter be required to conform to the
regulations for the district in which it is located after it is moved.
   E.   Nonconforming Uses Of Structures: If a lawful use involving individual
structures with a fair cash market value cost of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or more, or of structure and land in combination, exists at the
effective date hereof or amendment hereto that would not be allowed in the
district under the terms of this title, the lawful use may be continued as long
as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      2.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which was manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the
effective date hereof or amendment hereto, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
      3.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months or
for eighteen (18) months during any three (3) year period (except when
government action impedes access to the premises), the structure, or structure
and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity
with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      4.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. "Destruction", for the purpose of this
subsection E4, is defined as damage to an extent of more than fifty percent
(50%) of the fair cash market value at the time of destruction.
   F.   Nonconforming Off Street Parking And Loading Areas:
      1.   In any district where off street parking or loading areas of four
(4) or more spaces are provided, such areas and private drives or accessways
from the public right of way to or through these parking areas, shall be
required to fully comply with the design and construction requirements of off
street parking and loading as provided by chapter 11 of this title.
      2.   In any residential zoning district, all off street parking areas of
three (3) or fewer spaces and private drives or accessways from the public
right of way to or through these parking areas, shall be required to fully
comply with the design, construction, and maintenance standards provided in
chapter 11 of this title, but only in the event a building permit is required
for alteration of an existing garage or construction of a new garage accessory
to the residential use. This subsection F2 is subject to the common drive
exception in chapter 11 of this title.
   G.   Repairs And Maintenance Of Nonconforming Structures: Ordinary repairs
and repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing may
be made on any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use to an extent not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the fair
cash market value of the nonconforming structure; provided, that the cubic
content existing when it became nonconforming shall not be expanded. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-4-8: ADULT-USE CANNABIS:
   A.   Purpose And Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this section
to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of
adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the Village of
Heyworth. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended
from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations
provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of
the state or local regulations shall apply.
   B.   Allowed Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments/Facilities: It is
the intent of the village to allow for, subject to the requirements of the
Cannabis Act and other applicable requirements of this code, the following
types of adult-use cannabis business establishments to be located within the
village or as it applies to its extra-territorial jurisdiction:
      1.   Adult-use cannabis cultivation centers.
      2.   Adult-use cannabis craft growers.
      3.   Adult-use cannabis infuser organizations.
      4.   Adult-use cannabis processing organizations.
      5.   Adult-use cannabis transporting organizations.
   C.   Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments/Facilities And Usages Not
Allowed: It is the intent of the village to not allow for the following types
of adult-use cannabis business establishments to be located within the village
or as it applies to its extra-territorial jurisdiction, as well as not allow
the following usage:
      1.   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations.
      2.   Adult-use cannabis cafes/lounges.
      3.   Consumption of cannabis products in business establishments within
the village to the extent allowed under the Act.
   D.   Permitted And Special Permitted Uses: Adult-use cannabis business
establishment facilities, as defined herein, are permitted in those zoning
districts as specified in chapter 7 (Principal Uses and Standards of
Districts).
   E.   Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components: In determining compliance of
this title and the Act, the following components of the adult-use cannabis
facilities shall be evaluated prior to a building permit and/or a special
permit being issued based on the entirety of the circumstances affecting the
particular property in the context of the existing and intended future use of
the properties:
      1.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
      2.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
      3.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
      4.   Anticipated parking demand based on section
11-11-1 et seq. of this Title and available private parking supply.
      5.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
      6.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
      7.   Proposed signage plan.
      8.   Compliance with all other requirements provided in this code, as
applicable.
      9.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
this code.
   F.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Growers: In those zoning districts in which an
adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located pursuant to chapter 7 (Principal
Uses and Standards of Districts) of this title, the proposed craft growing
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within five hundred feet (500') of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purpose of this section.
      2.   Facility may not be located within five hundred feet (500') of the
property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      3.   Facility may not be located within two hundred fifty feet (250') of
the property line of a pre-existing retail producing business as defined per
the Retailer's Occupation Tax Act.
      4.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      5.   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
craft growers shall be classified as a "manufacturing use" per the off-street
parking requirements of chapter 11 of this title, provided, however, that the
village may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the
analysis completed as provided for herein.
      6.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section, other applicable sections of this code, and all
other requirements of the Act.
      7.   For purposes of this section, a distance requirement does not apply
for properties separated by a superhighway or interstate as defined by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
      8.   No more than three (3) adult-use cannabis craft grower facilities
shall be permitted within the village or its extra-territorial jurisdiction in
combination with all zoning districts. If three (3) such facilities are located
within the village or its extra-territorial jurisdiction, additional facilities
may be permitted subject to the issuance of a special use permit.
   G.   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Centers: In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be located pursuant to
chapter 7 (Principal Uses and Standards of Districts) of this title, the
proposed cultivation center facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home
or residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
      2.   Facility may not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      3.   Facility may not be located within two hundred fifty feet (250') of
the property line of a pre-existing retail producing business as defined per
the Retailer's Occupation Tax Act.
      4.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      5.   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
cultivation centers shall be classified as "manufacturing use" per the off-
street parking requirements of chapter 11 of this title, provided, however,
that the village may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed as provided for herein.
      6.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section, other relevant sections of this code, and all
other requirements of the Act.
      7.   For purposes of this section, a distance requirement does not apply
for properties separated by a superhighway or interstate as defined by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
      8.   No more than two (2) adult-use cannabis cultivation center
facilities shall be permitted within the village or its extra-territorial
jurisdiction in combination with all zoning districts. If two (2) such
facilities are located within the village or its extra-territorial
jurisdiction, additional facilities may be permitted subject to the issuance of
a special use permit.
   H.   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization: In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis infuser organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within five hundred feet (500') feet of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
fifty feet (250') feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
      3.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by an infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the infusing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct
any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
infuser organizations shall be classified as "manufacturing use" per the off-
street parking requirements of chapter 11 of this title, provided, however,
that the village may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed as provided for herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with section as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
      6.   For purposes of this section, a distance requirement does not apply
for properties separated by a superhighway or interstate as defined by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
      7.   No more than two (2) adult-use cannabis infuser organizations shall
be permitted within the village or its extra-territorial jurisdiction in
combination with all zoning districts. If two (2) such facilities are located
within the village or its extra-territorial jurisdiction, additional facilities
may be permitted subject to the issuance of a special use permit.
   I.   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organizations: In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis processing organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within five hundred feet (500') of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
fifty feet (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used
for residential purposes.
      3.   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any tenant
space occupied by a processing organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the processing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not
conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the
Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
processing organizations shall be classified as "manufacturing use" per the
off-street parking requirements of chapter 11 of this title, provided, however,
that the village may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed as provided for herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section as provided herein and all other requirements of
the Act.
      6.   For purposes of this section, a distance requirement does not apply
for properties separated by a superhighway or interstate as defined by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
      7.   No more than two (2) adult-use cannabis processing organizations
shall be permitted within the village or its extra-territorial jurisdiction in
combination with all zoning districts. If two (2) such facilities are located
within the village or its extra-territorial jurisdiction, additional facilities
may be permitted subject to the issuance of a special use permit.
   J.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organizations: In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use transporting organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within five hundred feet (500') of the
property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool,
primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care
home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as
a public or private school for purposes of this section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two hundred
fifty feet (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used
for residential purposes.
      3.   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use transporting
cannabis transporting organizations shall be classified as "manufacturing use"
per the off-street parking requirements of chapter 11 of this title, provided,
however, that the village may require that additional parking be provided as a
result of the analysis completed as provided for herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this section as provided herein and all other requirements of
the Act.
      6.   For purposes of this section, a distance requirement does not apply
for properties separated by a superhighway or interstate as defined by the
Illinois Department of Transportation.
      7.   No more than two (2) adult-use cannabis transporting organizations
shall be permitted within the village or its extra-territorial jurisdiction in
combination with all zoning districts. If two (2) such facilities are located
within the village or its extraterritorial jurisdiction, additional facilities
may be permitted subject to the issuance of a special use permit.
   K.   Additional Requirements:
      1.   Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security
cameras, lighting or other improvements as required by the Act and as may
otherwise be required by this code or special permitted use, where applicable,
to ensure the safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis
business establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements may be
determined based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for an
adult-use cannabis business establishment and the site on which it is located,
consistent with the requirements of the Act.
      2.   All adult-use cannabis facilities shall have a minimum twenty foot
(20') front yard setback and five foot (5') side yard setback for its primary
structure. (Ord. 2019-74, 12-19-2019)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-5-1: Administration And Enforcement Officials
11-5-2: Permits Required
11-5-3: Zoning Text Amendments
11-5-4: Zoning Map Amendments; Rezonings
11-5-5: Variances
11-5-6: Special Use Regulations
11-5-7: Appeals
11-5-8: Fees
11-5-9: Penalties
11-5-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
It shall be the duties of the zoning administrator, zoning and administrative
review committee, and/or the zoning board of appeals to administer and enforce
the provisions of this title as set forth herein:
   A.   Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator shall be the general
administrating official of this title and shall administer and enforce the
provisions hereof.
   B.   Zoning And Administrative Review Committee: The zoning and
administrative review committee shall administer and enforce the provisions of
this title as specifically set forth in this title and per the ordinances and
resolutions of the village. In the event the office of the zoning administrator
is vacant, the zoning and administrative review committee shall have the
authority to monitor compliance with the provisions of this title and make
recommendations of action to the board of trustees when an apparent violation
of this title has or likely will occur.
   C.   Zoning Board Of Appeals: The zoning board of appeals shall administer
and enforce the provisions of this title as set forth herein. See title 2,
chapter 1 of the village code for further information on the zoning board of
appeals. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2020-26, 5-7-2020)
11-5-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Building Permit: It shall be a violation of this chapter to commence
any demolition or construction related activity as set forth in title 10,
chapter 3 of the village code unless a building permit is issued by the
village. See the provisions of title 10, chapter 3 of the village code for the
requirements for issuance of a building permit.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: It shall be a violation of this chapter for
any person, firm, corporation or any other business entity to occupy, or for
any owner or agent thereof to permit the occupancy of, any building or
structure or addition thereto, or part thereof, for any purpose unless and
until an occupancy permit, which shall state that the occupancy complies with
one of the types of occupancy permit provisions of title 10, chapter 5 of the
village code, is issued. See the provisions of title 10, chapter 5 of the
village code for the requirements for issuance of an occupancy permit.
   C.   Additional Permits: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person, firm, corporation or any other business entity to fail to obtain any
additional permits that may be required per the village code. It is the
responsibility of the owner to satisfy any additional permitting requirements
of the village. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-5-3: ZONING TEXT AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Application: This section shall apply to any zoning text amendments
which are amendments to this title.
   B.   Authority: The regulations imposed under the authority of this title
may be amended by ordinance in accordance with applicable state statutes and
the requirements established in this section.
   C.   Requirements: A zoning text amendment shall be approved or denied by
the village board of trustees by ordinance only after a public hearing, with
notice of the hearing being posted and published not less than fifteen (15) nor
more than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing and as is required by law, is
held by the zoning board of appeals, and a report of its findings and
recommendations has been submitted to the village board of trustees.
   D.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments to the regulations imposed hereby
or zoning text amendments may be proposed by:
      1.   The board of trustees by submitting the proposed amendments to the
zoning board of appeals for review at a public hearing;
      2.   A designee authorized by the board of trustees by submitting the
proposed amendments to the zoning board of appeals for review at a public
hearing; or
      3.   A property owner of property located within the village by filing a
completed "zoning amendment application" with the zoning administrator, or in
the event that office is vacant, with the office of the village clerk, with
payment of the appropriate applicable fees. See section
11-5-8 of this chapter for the fees required. Upon receipt of a properly
completed "zoning amendment application" and required fees for a zoning text
amendment, the village clerk or his designee shall forward the application to
the zoning administrator, or in event that office is vacant, then the zoning
and administrative review committee of the village for review and
recommendation prior to a public hearing being held on the zoning text
amendment request. The information required in the "zoning amendment
application" is considered the minimum required information, and the
appropriate administrating committee may hereby request additional relevant
information that may aid in determining a zoning amendment request.
   E.   Review Procedure:
      1.   Standards Of Review: When reviewing a proposed zoning text
amendment, each of the reviewing officials or boards, as stated herein, shall
apply the evidence and information presented to each of the standards
hereinafter set forth and make a determination as to whether each of the
followings standards is met:
         a.   The general purposes and intent of this title shall be adhered to
if the zoning text amendment is approved;
         b.   There will be uniformity and coherence with the remaining
provisions of this title if the zoning text amendment is approved; and
         c.   The zoning text amendment is in the public interest.
      2.   Administrating Official Review: Upon receipt of a proper request for
a zoning text amendment, the appropriate administrating official shall review
the "zoning amendment application" and any additional relevant information
relating to the specific request within fourteen (14) calendar days from which
the request was properly submitted. When reviewing the request and in making
its recommendation, the appropriate administrating official shall apply the
standards of review set forth herein to the zoning text amendment request.
After a determination of each standard of review has been made, the appropriate
administrating official shall submit its recommendation, in writing, to the
zoning board of appeals.
      3.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Review; Public Hearing, Notice And Findings
Of Fact: After the proposed amendments from the board of trustees or from a
designee of the board of trustees have been submitted, or the recommendation,
in writing, by the appropriate administrating official is submitted to the
chair of the zoning board of appeals, the chair of the zoning board of appeals
shall cause a public hearing to be held and shall provide notice of the hearing
as is required by law which shall be published not less than fifteen (15) nor
more than thirty (30) days from the date of the hearing on the request for the
zoning text amendment. At the public hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall
consider the proposed amendments and, if applicable, the recommendation of the
appropriate administrating official, shall review the information provided with
the application for the zoning text amendment, and hear evidence presented by
the applicant. At the close of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall
apply the information and evidence presented to each standard of review stated
herein and shall state aloud to the public and state in writing, in a document
known as the "findings of fact", whether each of standards of review stated
herein has been met. If each standard is met, the zoning board of appeals shall
recommend the approval of the zoning text amendment request. If each standard
is not met, the zoning board of appeals shall recommend denial of the zoning
text amendment request. The chair of the zoning board of appeals shall then
submit the findings of fact to the board of trustees within five (5) days of
the close of the public hearing(s) on the zoning amendment request.
      4.   Board Of Trustees Review: The board of trustees, after receipt of
the findings of fact from the zoning board of appeals and, without further
public hearing, shall approve or deny the proposed zoning text amendment by
ordinance. When deciding upon the ordinance, the board of trustees shall
consider the recommendation of the appropriate administrating official, the
findings of fact of the zoning board of appeals and whether each standard of
review has been met.
   F.   Renewal Of Rejected Amendment Request: No request for a zoning text
amendment which has been denied wholly or in part by the board of trustees
shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of said order of
denial, except on the grounds of error in the original proceedings or change of
conditions, in either case, found to be valid by the board of trustees. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2020-26, 5-7-2020)
11-5-4: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS; REZONINGS:
   A.   Application: This section shall apply to any rezoning of property,
which is referred to as a "zoning map amendment", located within the
jurisdiction of the village.
   B.   Authority: The zoning districts created under the authority of this
title may be amended or rezoned by ordinance in accordance with applicable
state statutes and the requirements of this section.
   C.   Requirements: A zoning map amendment shall be approved or denied by the
village board of trustees by ordinance only after a public hearing, with notice
of the hearing being posted and published not less than fifteen (15) nor more
than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing and as is required by law, is held
by the zoning board of appeals, and a report of its findings and
recommendations has been submitted to the village board of trustees.
   D.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments to the zoning districts created
hereby, which are also referred to as a "rezoning", may be proposed by:
      1.   The board of trustees by submitting the proposed amendments to the
zoning board of appeals for review at a public hearing;
      2.   A designee authorized by the board of trustees by submitting the
proposed amendments to the zoning board of appeals for review at a public
hearing; or
      3.   A property owner of property located within the village by filing a
completed zoning amendment application with the zoning administrator, or in the
event that office is vacant, with the office of the village clerk, with payment
of the appropriate applicable fees. See section
11-5-8 of this chapter for the fees required. Upon receipt of a properly
completed zoning amendment application and required fees for a zoning map
amendment, the village clerk or his designee shall forward the application to
the zoning administrator, or in event that office is vacant, then the zoning
and administrative review committee of the village for review and
recommendation prior to a public hearing being held on the zoning map amendment
request. The information required in the zoning amendment application is
considered the minimum required information, and the appropriate administrating
committee may hereby request additional relevant information that may aid in
determining a zoning amendment request.
   E.   Review Procedure:
      1.   Standards Of Review: When reviewing a proposed zoning map amendment,
each of the reviewing officials or boards, as stated herein, shall apply the
evidence and information presented to each of the standards hereinafter set
forth and make a determination as to whether each of the following standards is
met:
         a.   The suitability of the subject property for uses authorized by
the existing zoning.
         b.   The length of time the property has remained vacant as zoned
considered in the context of land development in the area.
         c.   The suitability of the subject property for uses authorized by
the proposed zoning.
         d.   Compatibility with the existing land uses of nearby property.
         e.   Compatibility with existing zoning districts of nearby property.
         f.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which have taken place since
the day the property in question was placed in its present zoning
classification.
         g.   Relative gain or hardship to the public as contrasted and
compared to the hardship or gain of the individual property owner resulting
from the approval or denial of the proposed zoning map amendment.
         h.   The adoption of such amendment is in the public interest and is
not solely for the interest of the applicant.
      2.   Administrating Official Review: Upon receipt of a proper request for
a zoning map amendment, the appropriate administrating official shall review
the zoning amendment application and any additional relevant information
relating to the specific request within fourteen (14) calendar days from which
the request was properly submitted. When reviewing the request and in making
its recommendation, the appropriate administrating official shall apply the
standards of review set forth herein to the zoning map amendment request. After
a determination of each standard of review has been made, the appropriate
administrating official shall submit his recommendation, in writing, to the
zoning board of appeals.
      3.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Review; Public Hearing, Notice And Findings
Of Fact: After a recommendation is submitted, in writing, by the appropriate
administrating official to the chair of the zoning board of appeals, the chair
of the zoning board of appeals shall cause a public hearing to be held and
shall provide notice of the hearing as is required by law which shall be
published not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days from the
date of the hearing on the request for the zoning map amendment. At the public
hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall consider the recommendation of the
appropriate administrating official, review the information provided with the
application for the zoning map amendment, and hear evidence presented by the
applicant. At the close of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall apply
the information and evidence provided to each standard of review stated herein
and shall state aloud to the public and state in writing, in a document known
as the "findings of fact", whether each of the standards of review stated
herein has been met. If each standard is met, the zoning board of appeals shall
recommend the approval of the zoning map amendment request. If each standard is
not met, the zoning board of appeals shall recommend denial of the zoning map
amendment request. The chair of the zoning board of appeals shall then submit
the findings of fact to the board of trustees within five (5) days of the close
of the public hearing(s) on the zoning map amendment request.
      4.   Board Of Trustees Review: The board of trustees, after receipt of
the findings of fact from the zoning board of appeals, and without further
public hearing, shall approve or deny the proposed zoning map amendment by
ordinance. When deciding upon the ordinance, the board of trustees shall
consider, if applicable, the recommendation of the appropriate administrating
official, the findings of fact of the zoning board of appeals and whether each
standard of review has been met.
   F.   Protest Of Amendment: If there is a written protest against any
proposed zoning map amendment filed with the village clerk, and which is signed
and acknowledged by owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to
be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly
opposite of the frontage to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley therefrom, the
zoning map amendment cannot be passed except on the favorable vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of the board of trustees.
   G.   Renewal Of Rejected Amendment: No request for a zoning map amendment
which has been denied wholly or in part by the board of trustees shall be
resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of said order of denial,
except on the grounds of error in the original proceedings or change of
conditions, in either case, found to be valid by the board of trustees. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2020-26, 5-7-2020)
11-5-5: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application: This section shall apply to any request for a zoning
variance to property located within the jurisdiction of the village.
   B.   Authority: When strict compliance with the requirements and provisions
of this title causes or will likely cause a particular hardship on a property
owner, a variance from the requirements and provisions created under the
authority of this title may be granted by ordinance in accordance with
applicable state statutes and the requirements of this section.
   C.   Requirements: A zoning variance shall be approved or denied by the
village board of trustees by ordinance only after a public hearing, with notice
of the hearing being posted and published not less than fifteen (15) nor more
than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing and as is required by law, is held
by the zoning board of appeals, and a report of its findings and
recommendations has been submitted to the village board of trustees. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009)
   D.   Initiation Of Variance Request: A variance may be requested by any
property owner of property located within the village by filing a zoning
variance application,**** with payment of the appropriate applicable fees, with
the zoning administrator, or in the event that office is vacant, with the
office of the village clerk, who shall forward the zoning variance application
to the chair of the zoning and administrative review committee of the village.
See section
11-5-8 of this chapter for the fees required. Upon receipt of a properly
completed zoning variance application and required fees, the appropriate
administrating official, which shall be the zoning administrator, or in the
event that office is vacant, the zoning and administrative review committee,
shall administer the review of the zoning variance application prior to a
public hearing being held on the variance request. The information required in
the zoning variance application is considered the minimum required information,
and the appropriate administrating official may hereby request additional
relevant information that may aid in the determination of a zoning variance
request. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Review Procedure:
      1.   Standards Of Review: When reviewing a proposed zoning variance, each
of the reviewing officials or boards, as stated herein, shall apply the
evidence and information presented to each of the standards hereinafter set
forth and make a determination as to whether each of the followings standards
is met:
         a.   The particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved is causing or will cause a
particular hardship upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience
or better use if the strict letter of the regulation were to be carried out;
         b.   The conditions and hardships upon which the application for
variation is based are significantly greater than other applicable properties
within the same zoning classification;
         c.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to receive financial gain on the property;
         d.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
         e.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, substantially increase the danger of fire,
or otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhoods; and
         f.   The general purpose and intent of this title will be adhered to
should the variance be granted. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
      2.   Administrating Official Review: Upon receipt of a proper request for
a zoning variance, the appropriate administrating official shall review the
"zoning variance application" and any additional relevant information relating
to the specific request within fourteen (14) calendar days from which the
request was properly submitted. When reviewing the request and in making its
recommendation, the appropriate administrating official shall apply the
standards of review set forth herein to the zoning variance request. After a
determination of each standard of review has been made, the appropriate
administrating official shall submit its recommendation, in writing, to the
zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Review; Public Hearing, Notice And Findings
Of Fact: After a recommendation is submitted, in writing, by the appropriate
administrating official to the chair of the zoning board of appeals, the chair
of the zoning board of appeals shall cause a public hearing to be held and
shall provide notice of the hearing as is required by law which shall be
published not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days from the
date of the hearing on the request for the zoning variance. At the public
hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall consider the recommendation of the
appropriate administrating official, review the information provided with the
application for the zoning variance, and hear evidence presented by the
applicant. At the close of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall apply
the information and evidence provided to each standard of review stated herein
and shall state aloud to the public and state in writing, in a document known
as the "findings of fact", whether each of standards of review stated herein
has been met. If each standard is met, the zoning board of appeals shall
recommend the approval of the zoning variance request. If each standard is not
met, the zoning board of appeals should recommend denial of the zoning variance
request. The chair of the zoning board of appeals shall then submit the
findings of fact to the board of trustees within five (5) days of the close of
the public hearing(s) on the zoning variance request.
      4.   Board Of Trustees Review: The board of trustees, after receipt of
the findings of fact from the zoning board of appeals, and without further
public hearing, shall approve or deny the proposed zoning variance request by
ordinance. When deciding upon the ordinance, the board of trustees shall
consider the recommendation of the appropriate administrating official, the
findings of fact of the zoning board of appeals and whether each standard of
review has been met.
   F.   Protest Of Variance Request: If there is a written protest filed with
the village clerk against any proposed zoning variance, which is signed and
acknowledged by owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be
altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly
opposite of the frontage to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley therefrom, the
variance cannot be passed except on the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of
the board of trustees.
   G.   Renewal Of Rejected Request: No request for a zoning variance which has
been denied wholly or in part by the board of trustees shall be resubmitted for
a period of one year from the date of said order of denial, except on the
grounds of error in the original proceedings or change of conditions, in either
case, found to be valid by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-5-6: SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Application: This section shall apply to any request for a special use
permit, which is also referred to as a "conditional use permit", for property
located within the jurisdiction of the village.
   B.   Authority: When, upon determination by the board of trustees that a use
of land is either necessary or generally appropriate in the village but
requires special regulation because of unique or unusual impacts associated
with the use, a special use permit shall hereby be required and may be issued
by the board of trustees by ordinance in accordance with applicable state
statutes and the requirements of this chapter. See chapter 7 of this title for
uses prohibited, permitted or that require a special use permit.
   C.   Requirements: A request for a special use permit shall be approved or
denied by the village board of trustees by ordinance only after a public
hearing, with notice of the hearing being posted and published not less than
fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing as is required
by law, is held by the zoning board of appeals, and a report of its findings
and recommendations has been submitted to the village board of trustees. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009)
   D.   Initiation Of Request For Special Use Permit: A special use permit may
be requested by any property owner of property located within the village by
filing a special use permit application,**** with payment of the appropriate
applicable fees, with the zoning administrator, or in the event that office is
vacant, with the office of the village clerk, who shall forward the special use
permit application to the chair of the administrating official which shall be
the zoning and administrative review committee of the village. See section
11-5-8 of this chapter for the fees required. Upon receipt of a properly
completed special use permit application and required fees, the appropriate
administrating official shall administer the review of the special use permit
application prior to a public hearing being held on the variance request. The
information required in the special use permit application is considered the
minimum required information, and the appropriate administrating official may
hereby request additional relevant information that may aid in the
determination of a zoning special use permit request. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009;
amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Review Procedure:
      1.   Standards Of Review: When reviewing a request for a special use
permit, each of the reviewing officials or boards, as stated herein, shall
apply the evidence and information presented to each of the standards
hereinafter set forth and make a determination as to whether each of the
following standards is met:
         a.   The general purposes and intent of this title shall be adhered to
if the special use permit is issued;
         b.   The subject property is suitable for the proposed special use;
         c.   The proposed special use is compatible with the use of nearby
properties;
         d.   The proposed special use will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, substantially increase the danger of fire,
or otherwise endanger the public health, safety or welfare of properties in the
neighborhood;
         e.   The proposed special use will not substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhoods; and
         f.   The proposed special use would fit the trend of development, if
any, in the general area of the property in question, including changes, if
any, which have taken place since the day the property in question was placed
in its present zoning classification. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
      2.   Administrating Official Review: Upon receipt of a proper request for
a zoning special use permit, the appropriate administrating official shall
review the special use permit application and any additional relevant
information relating to the specific request within fourteen (14) calendar days
from which the request was properly submitted. When reviewing the request and
in making its recommendation, the appropriate administrating official shall
apply the standards of review set forth herein to the zoning special use permit
request. After a determination of each standard of review has been made, the
appropriate administrating official shall submit its recommendation, in
writing, to the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011
Code)
      3.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Review; Public Hearing, Notice And Findings
Of Fact: After a recommendation is submitted, in writing, by the appropriate
administrating official to the chair of the zoning board of appeals, the chair
of the zoning board of appeals shall cause a public hearing to be held and
shall provide notice of the hearing as is required by law which shall be
published not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days from the
date of the hearing on the request for special use permit. At the public
hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall consider the recommendation of the
appropriate administrating official, review the information provided with the
application for the special use permit, and hear evidence presented by the
applicant. At the close of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall apply
the information and evidence provided to each standard of review stated herein
and shall state aloud to the public and state in writing, in a document known
as the "findings of fact", whether each of standards of review stated herein
has been met. If each standard is met, the zoning board of appeals shall
recommend approval of the special use permit request. If each standard is not
met, the zoning board of appeals shall recommend denial of the special use
permit request. The chair of the zoning board of appeals shall then submit the
findings of fact to the board of trustees within five (5) days of the close of
the public hearing(s) on the special use permit request.
      4.   Board Of Trustees Review: The board of trustees, after receipt of
the findings of fact from the zoning board of appeals, and without further
public hearing, shall approve or deny the special use permit request by
ordinance or may refer it back to the zoning board of appeals for further
consideration. When deciding upon the ordinance, the board of trustees shall
consider the recommendation of the appropriate administrating official, the
findings of fact of the zoning board of appeals and whether each standard of
review has been met.
   F.   Renewal Of Rejected Request: No request for a special use permit which
has been denied wholly or in part by the board of trustees shall be resubmitted
for a period of one year from the date of said order of denial, except on the
grounds of error in the original proceedings or change of conditions, in either
case, found to be valid by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-5-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Application: This section shall apply to any administrative order,
requirement, decision or determination regarding the regulations of this title
by an administrating official of the village.
   B.   Authority: The zoning board of appeals shall hear and decide appeals
from an administrative order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the administrating official or other authorized officials of the village
relating to the regulations of this title.
   C.   Procedure: An appeal shall be initiated by filing a written statement
that shall reference the order, requirement, determination, interpretation or
application being appealed and provide a brief statement about the factual
situation giving rise to such action, with payment of the applicable fees, in
the office of the village clerk. Upon receipt of the written statement and
fees, the village clerk shall forward such appeal to the chair of the zoning
board of appeals for processing in accordance with the applicable state
statutes and the provisions of this section.
   D.   Zoning Board Of Appeals Review:
      1.   Upon receipt of a written statement of appeal, the Chair of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall cause a public hearing to be held and shall
provide notice of the hearing as is required by law which shall be published
not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30) days from the date of the
hearing on the appeal. At the public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
review the written statement of appeal and hear evidence as to why the appeal
should be granted. At the close of the hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall apply the information and evidence provided to the following standards
and make a determination of whether each standard is met:
         a.   The administrative order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by the administrating official or other authorized officials of the
Village relating to the regulations of this title was misinterpreted or
erroneously applied; or
         b.   The administrative order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by the administrating official or other authorized officials of the
Village relating to the regulations of this title was made upon misinterpreted
facts. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
      2.   The Zoning Board of Appeals may modify or reverse the action of the
administrating official if either of the foregoing standards is demonstrated.
If neither of the foregoing standards is demonstrated, the appeal shall be
denied and the administrating official's action sustained. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall not have the authority or power to change, modify, waive or relax
requirements or regulations of this Code. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011
Code)
   E.   Decisions: All decisions, after hearing before the Zoning Board of
Appeals, on appeals from an administrative order, requirement, decision, or
determination relating to this title of the administrating officer or other
authorized official of the Village shall, in all instances, be final
administrative determinations and shall be subject to judicial review in
accordance with applicable State Statutes. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-5-8: FEES:
   A.   Text Amendments: An application for a text amendment shall be
accompanied by a fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). This fee includes
all notice costs.
   B.   Map Amendments: An application for a map amendment shall be accompanied
by a fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). This fee includes all notice
costs.
   C.   Variances: An application for a variation shall be accompanied by a fee
of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). This fee includes all notice costs.
   D.   Special Use Permits: An application for a special use permit shall be
accompanied by a fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). This fee includes
all notice costs.
   E.   Appeals: An application for an appeal shall be accompanied by a fee of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). This fee includes all notice costs. (Ord.
2015-36, 8-6-2015)
11-5-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation, or other business entity, who
violates, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this title shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense.
   B.   Should a violation of this chapter be found, any occupancy or building
permit issued by the Village for the property in violation may be revoked or a
stop work order may be issued by the appropriate administrating official of the
Village. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Establishment Of Districts
11-6-2: Residence Districts
11-6-3: Commercial Districts
11-6-4: Manufacturing Districts
11-6-5: Agriculture Districts
11-6-6: Public Use Districts
11-6-7: Mixed Use Zoning District
11-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the intent, purposes and provisions of this title, the
village is hereby zoned into the districts as established in this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-6-2: RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
R1 Single-family residence district.
R2 Mixed residence district.
R3 Multi-family residence district.
R4 Manufactured home park district.
(Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-6-3: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
C Commercial district.
(Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-6-4: MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS:
M1 Restricted manufacturing district.
M2 General manufacturing district.
(Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-6-5: AGRICULTURE DISTRICTS:
A Agriculture district.
(Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-6-6: PUBLIC USE DISTRICTS:
PU Public use district.
(Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-6-7: MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICT:
MX Mixed Use District.
(Ord. 2013-48, 11-7-2013)
CHAPTER 7
PRINCIPAL USES AND STANDARDS OF DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-7-1: R1 Single-Family Residence District
11-7-2: R2 Mixed Residence District
11-7-3: R3 Multi-Family Residence District
11-7-4: R4 Manufactured Home Park District
11-7-5: C Commercial District
11-7-6: M1 Restricted Manufacturing District
11-7-7: M2 General Manufacturing District
11-7-8: A Agriculture District
11-7-9: PU Public Use District
11-7-10: MX Mixed Use Zoning District
11-7-1: R1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the R1 single-family residence district is to
provide primarily for the establishment of areas characterized by single-family
detached dwellings, while recognizing the potential compatibility of duplex
units, zero lot line two-family dwellings, and multi-family dwellings of up to
four (4) as special uses. In addition to these dwellings, related recreational,
religious, and cultural facilities are allowed where such facilities are found
to be compatible with surrounding residential development. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-
5-2009)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R1 single-
family residence district:
      Accessory buildings, structures and uses.
      Cemeteries.
      Churches and synagogues.
      Dwellings; single-family.
      Fire stations.
      Home occupations.
      Parks, playgrounds, and other noncommercial public open space.
      Schools; public, private or parochial.
      Wind energy conversion system (WECS), small.
      Other uses of the same general character as above. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-
2009; amd. Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
   C.   Special Permitted Uses: The following uses are allowed in the R1
single-family residence district only as special permitted uses:
      Dwellings; two-family duplex units, multiple-family with no more than
four (4) dwelling units, zero lot line two- family dwellings, and zero lot line
multiple-family dwellings.
      Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      Permanent erection of modular homes.
      Temporary buildings, both incidental and necessary for construction, for
a period of not more than six (6) months.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   D.   Building Height: No principal structure shall exceed three (3) stories
or thirty five feet (35') in height. No accessory structure shall exceed one
story or fifteen feet (15') in height.
   E.   Lot Requirements: The following minimum lot requirements shall be
observed:
      1.   Lot area: Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet, single-
family; four thousand (4,000) square feet per dwelling unit for all other uses.
However, there shall be no minimum lot area for multiple-family dwellings.
      2.   Lot width: Sixty feet (60') for single-family, two-family, and
multiple-family dwellings; thirty feet (30') for zero lot line two-family
dwellings and zero lot line multiple-family dwellings.
   F.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front Yards:
            (1)   Not less than twenty five feet (25') nor less than the front
yard depth of the building immediately adjacent (within 120 feet) to either
side of the proposed building structure; provided, however, that in no case
will a front yard of more than forty feet (40') be required. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009)
               (A)   Exception: In any subdivision that was substantially
developed prior to 1980, the front yard setback may be less than twenty five
feet (25'), but not less than ten feet (10'), provided that any proposed
building structure or other improvement that may be built at or within a
proposed front yard setback would not constitute or cause a line of sight
safety issue. (Ord. 2012-29, 8-2-2012)
            (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each street side of the lot; except,
that the buildable width of such lot shall not be reduced to less than thirty
two feet (32'). No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line
on either street.
         b.   Side Yards: Each not less than five feet (5') wide except in the
following circumstances:
            (1)   For lots of record less than forty five feet (45') in width,
the side yards shall be not less than three feet (3').
            (2)   For zero lot line two-family dwellings and zero lot line
multiple-family dwellings, there will be a zero foot (0') side yard at any
location where a party wall connects two (2) dwelling units.
         c.   Rear Yard: Not less than twenty feet (20'), but in no event less
than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot; provided, however, that in
no case will a rear yard of more than forty feet (40') be required.
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings. However, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, that owner has the authority to trim
said growth back to the lot line.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   H.   Fences:
      1.   Height Limitations: Fences constructed in a front yard shall be a
maximum height of three and one-half feet (31/2'). On a corner lot, both sides
facing the street are considered "front yards". Beyond the front yard setback,
the maximum height may be raised to six feet (6') along the side yards and six
feet (6') along the rear lot line.
      2.   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      3.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the village clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009)
11-7-2: R2 MIXED RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the R2 mixed residence district is to provide for
the establishment of areas characterized by a mixture of multi-family
dwellings, single-family dwellings, and related recreational, religious, and
cultural facilities where such facilities are found to be compatible with
surrounding residential development. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R2 mixed
residence district:
      All permitted uses in the R1 single-family residence district.
      Dwellings; single-family, two-family duplex units, zero lot line two-
family dwellings, and zero lot line multiple-family dwellings.
      Other uses of the same general character as above. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-
2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Special Permitted Uses: The following uses are allowed in the R2 mixed
residence district only as special permitted uses:
      Dwellings; multiple-family and cluster subdivisions.
      Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      Permanent erection of modular homes.
      Temporary buildings, both incidental and necessary for construction, for
a period of not more than six (6) months.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   D.   Building Height: No principal structure shall exceed three (3) stories
or thirty five feet (35') in height. No accessory structure shall exceed one
story or fifteen feet (15') in height.
   E.   Lot Requirements: The following minimum lot requirements shall be
observed:
      1.   Lot area: Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet for
single-family; three thousand two hundred forty (3,240) square feet per
dwelling unit for cluster subdivisions; and four thousand (4,000) square feet
per dwelling unit for all other uses. However, there shall be no minimum lot
area for multiple-family dwellings.
      2.   Lot width: Sixty feet (60') for single-family, two-family, and
multiple-family dwellings; thirty feet (30') for zero lot line two-family
dwellings and zero lot line multiple-family dwellings; thirty six feet (36')
for cluster subdivisions.
   F.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front Yards:
            (1)   Not less than twenty five feet (25') nor less than the front
yard depth of the building immediately adjacent (within 120 feet) to either
side of the proposed building structure; provided, however, that in no case
will a front yard of more than forty feet (40') be required.
            (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each street side of the lot; except,
that the buildable width of such lot shall not be reduced to less than thirty
two feet (32'). No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line
on either street.
         b.   Side Yards: Each not less than five feet (5') wide except in the
following circumstances:
            (1)   For lots of record less than forty five feet (45') in width,
the side yards shall be not less than three feet (3').
            (2)   For zero lot line two-family dwellings and zero lot line
multiple-family dwellings, there will be a zero foot (0') side yard at any
location where a party wall connects two (2) dwelling units.
         c.   Rear Yard: Not less than twenty feet (20'), but in no event less
than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot; provided, however, that in
no case will a rear yard of more than forty feet (40') be required.
         d.   Yards In A Cluster Subdivision: Yards in a cluster subdivision
shall be as shown in the approved special use permit.
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings. However, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, that owner has the authority to trim
said growth back to the lot line.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   H.   Fences:
      1.   Height Limitations: Fences constructed in a front yard shall be a
maximum height of three and one-half feet (31/2'). On a corner lot, both sides
facing the street are considered "front yards". Beyond the front yard setback,
the maximum height may be raised to six feet (6') along the side yards and six
feet (6') along the rear lot line.
      2.   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      3.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the village clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009)
11-7-3: R3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the R3 multi-family residence district is to
provide primarily for the establishment of areas of highly concentrated multi-
family residential development. This district provides for more intense land
usage in areas where lower density development is deemed neither appropriate
nor economical. It is further intended for this district to provide multi-
family dwellings in mid rise structures for those persons desiring to live in
such an environment. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009)
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R3 multi-family
residence district:
      All permitted uses in the R1 single-family residence district and R2
mixed residence district.
      Dwellings; single-family, two-family, and multiple- family units, zero
lot line two-family dwellings, and zero lot line multiple-family dwellings.
      Other uses of the same general character as above. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-
2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Special Permitted Uses: The following uses are allowed in the R3 multi-
family residence district only as special permitted uses:
      Cluster subdivisions.
      Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      Permanent erection of modular homes.
      Temporary buildings, both incidental and necessary for construction, for
a period of not more than six (6) months.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   D.   Building Height: No principal structure shall exceed the building
height specified on the approved building permit (see title 10, chapter 3 of
the village code). No accessory structure shall exceed one story or fifteen
feet (15') in height.
   E.   Lot Requirements: The following minimum lot requirements shall be
observed:
      1.   Lot area: Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet for
single-family; three thousand two hundred forty (3,240) square feet per
dwelling unit for cluster subdivisions; and four thousand (4,000) square feet
per dwelling unit for all other uses. However, there shall be no minimum lot
area for multiple-family dwellings.
      2.   Lot width: Sixty feet (60') for single-family, two-family, and
multiple-family dwellings; thirty feet (30') for zero lot line two-family
dwellings and zero lot line multiple-family dwellings; thirty six feet (36')
for cluster subdivisions.
   F.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front Yards:
            (1)   Not less than twenty five feet (25') nor less than the front
yard depth of the building immediately adjacent (within 120 feet) to either
side of the proposed building structure; provided, however, that in no case
will a front yard of more than forty feet (40') be required.
            (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each street side of the lot; except,
that the buildable width of such lot shall not be reduced to less than thirty
two feet (32'). No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line
on either street.
         b.   Side Yards: Each not less than five feet (5') wide except in the
following circumstances:
            (1)   For lots of record less than forty five feet (45') in width,
the side yards shall be not less than three feet (3').
            (2)   For zero lot line two-family dwellings and zero lot line
multiple-family dwellings, there will be a zero foot (0') side yard at any
location where a party wall connects two (2) dwelling units.
         c.   Rear Yard: Not less than twenty feet (20'), but in no event less
than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot; provided, however, that in
no case will a rear yard of more than forty feet (40') be required.
         d.   Yards In A Cluster Subdivision: Yards in a cluster subdivision
shall be as shown in the approved special use permit.
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings. However, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, that owner has the authority to trim
said growth back to the lot line.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   H.   Fences:
      1.   Height Limitations: Fences constructed in a front yard shall be a
maximum height of three and one-half feet (31/2'). On a corner lot, both sides
facing the street are considered "front yards". Beyond the front yard setback,
the maximum height may be raised to six feet (6') along the side yards and six
feet (6') along the rear lot line.
      2.   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      3.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the village clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009)
11-7-4: R4 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the R4 manufactured home park district is to
provide for the establishment of manufactured home parks wherein manufactured
home stands or pads are provided in a safe, sanitary, and economical manner in
conformance with the village manufactured home park ordinance. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   Zoning Map Amendment Guidelines: In making its legislative
determination to zone or rezone property to the R4 residence zoning
classification, the planning commission and/or board of trustees may, in
addition to the provisions set forth in section
11-5-4 of this title, apply the following guidelines to the proposal under
consideration:
      1.   The capacity of existing and proposed community facilities and
utilities, including water, sewer and transportation systems, to serve the
permitted uses which might lawfully occur on the property so zoned.
      2.   The extent to which the permitted uses will promote balanced growth
in the community and will be consistent with village goals for equal housing
opportunities and a variety of housing types.
      3.   The impact any natural disasters, including flooding, will have upon
the permitted uses.
      4.   The impact the permitted uses would have upon the natural
environment including noise, air, and water pollution.
      5.   The conformance of the proposal to the village comprehensive plan
and official zoning map. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009)
   C.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the R4 manufactured
home park district:
      Manufactured homes.
      Mobile homes.
      Wind energy conversion system (WECS), small. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009;
amd. Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
   D.   Special Permitted Uses: The following uses are allowed in the R4
manufactured home park district only as special permitted uses:
      All permitted uses in the R1 single-family residence district, R2 mixed
residence district, and R3 multi- family residence district.
   E.   Building Height: No principal structure shall exceed two (2) stories or
twenty five feet (25') in height. No accessory structure shall exceed one story
or fifteen feet (15') in height.
   F.   Lot Requirements: The following minimum lot requirements shall be
observed:
      1.   Lot area: Four thousand one hundred (4,100) square feet per dwelling
unit.
      2.   Lot width: Forty feet (40').
   G.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front Yards:
            (1)   Not less than twenty five feet (25') nor less than the front
yard depth of the building immediately adjacent (within 120 feet) to either
side of the proposed building structure; provided, however, that in no case
will a front yard of more than forty feet (40') be required.
            (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets, there shall be a front yard on each street side of the lot; except,
that the buildable width of such lot shall not be reduced to less than thirty
two feet (32'). No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard line
on either street.
         b.   Side Yards: Each not less than five feet (5') wide except in the
following circumstances:
            (1)   For lots of record less than forty five feet (45') in width,
the side yards shall be not less than three feet (3').
            (2)   For zero lot line two-family dwellings and zero lot line
multiple-family dwellings, there will be a zero foot (0') side yard at any
location where a party wall connects two (2) dwelling units.
         c.   Rear Yard: Not less than twenty feet (20'), but in no event less
than twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot; provided, however, that in
no case will a rear yard of more than forty feet (40') be required.
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings. However, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, that owner has the authority to trim
said growth back to the lot line.
   H.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   I.   Fences:
      1.   Height Limitations: Fences constructed in a front yard shall be a
maximum height of three and one-half feet (31/2'). On a corner lot, both sides
facing the street are considered "front yards". Beyond the front yard setback,
the maximum height may be raised to six feet (6') along the side yards and six
feet (6') along the rear lot line.
      2.   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      3.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the village clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009)
11-7-5: C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the C commercial district is to provide for the
establishment of areas characterized by a variety of commercial uses including
retail stores and shops, offices, services, and amusement uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the C commercial
district:
      Adult-use cannabis craft growers.
      Automatic car washes.
      Automotive service stations.
      Banks and barbershops.
      Bowling alleys.
      Building material sales.
      Churches and synagogues.
      Drive-in establishments.
      Fire stations.
      Fuel and ice sales, retail only.
      Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      Garages and auto servicing.
      Grocery stores.
      Hotels and motels.
      Kennels.
      Laundromats.
      Libraries.
      Motor vehicle sales.
      Offices.
      Parking lots; private and public.
      Police stations.
      Printing shops.
      Recreational activities; commercial types.
      Restaurants.
      Retail stores.
      Theaters; other than drive-ins.
      Veterinarian offices.
      Wind energy conversion system (WECS), small.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   C.   Special Permitted Uses: The following uses are allowed in the C
commercial district only as special permitted uses:
      Adult-use cannabis craft growers.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facilities.
      Bus stations.
      Drive-in theaters.
      Telephone relay towers and electrical substations.
      Temporary buildings, both incidental and necessary for construction, for
a period of not more than six (6) months.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   D.   Building Height: No principal structure shall exceed three (3) stories
or thirty five feet (35') in height. No accessory structure shall exceed one
story or fifteen feet (15') in height.
   E.   Lot Requirements: The following minimum lot requirements shall be
observed:
      1.   Lot area: Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet for all
commercial uses.
      2.   Lot width: No minimum.
      3.   See subsection
11-7-4F of this chapter for lot requirements for residential uses.
   F.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front yards: No minimum.
         b.   Side yards: No minimum.
         c.   Rear yard: Not less than ten feet (10').
         d.   If the side yard or rear yard abuts a Residential District, there
shall be a minimum five foot (5') side yard and twenty foot (20') rear yard.
         e.   See subsection
11-7-4G of this chapter for yard requirements for residential uses.
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings. However, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, that owner has the authority to trim
said growth back to the lot line.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   H.   Fences:
      1.   Height Limitations: If a fence is to be constructed at the rear or
side yard of a commercial lot that abuts a Residential District, it shall be at
least six feet (6') in height along the lot line that abuts the Residence
District.
      2.   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      3.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the Village Clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013; Ord. 2019-74, 12-19-2019)
11-7-6: M1 RESTRICTED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the M1 Restricted Manufacturing District is to
provide for the establishment of areas characterized by industrial and
manufacturing uses with an absence of objectionable external effects. Just as
industrial uses are excluded from residential areas to promote public health,
safety, and welfare, so are residential subdivision developments excluded from
this district.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the M1 Restricted
Manufacturing District:
      Adult-use cannabis craft growers.
      Adult-use cannabis cultivation centers.
      Adult-use cannabis infuser facilities.
      Adult-use cannabis processing facilities.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facilities.
      Bulk storage and distribution plants.
      Cartage and express facilities.
      Contractor's office, shops, or yard.
      Fertilizer and feed sales and storage.
      Furniture and fixtures industries.
      Grain storage elevators.
      Lumberyards.
      Machine shop.
      Metal products manufacturing.
      Paper industries.
      Warehouse operations.
      Wind energy conversion system (WECS), small.
      Wood products manufacturing.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   C.   Special Permitted Uses: The following uses are allowed in the M1
Restricted Manufacturing District only as special permitted uses:
      All permitted and special permitted uses in the C Commercial District.
      Adult-use cannabis craft growers.
      Adult-use cannabis cultivation centers.
      Adult-use cannabis infuser facilities.
      Adult-use cannabis processing facilities.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facilities.
      Airports and landing fields.
      Crematories.
      Medical marijuana cultivation centers or dispensing organizations
authorized pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act.
      Mining, quarrying.
      Refuse disposal services.
      Solid waste disposal area.
      Temporary buildings, both incidental and necessary for construction, for
a period of not more than six (6) months.
      Wind energy conversion systems, other than small.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   D.   Building Height: No structure shall exceed four (4) stories or forty
five feet (45') in height. Grain elevators are exempted from the height
restrictions of this subsection.
   E.   Lot Requirements: The following minimum lot requirements shall be
observed:
      1.   Lot area: No minimum.
      2.   Lot width: No minimum.
      3.   Commercial uses: See subsection
11-7-5E of this chapter for lot requirements for commercial uses.
   F.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front yards: No minimum.
         b.   Side yards: No minimum.
         c.   Rear yard: Not less than ten feet (10').
         d.   If the side yard or rear yard abuts a Residential District, there
shall be a minimum five foot (5') side yard and twenty foot (20') rear yard.
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings. However, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, that owner has the authority to trim
said growth back to the lot line.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   H.   Fences:
      1.   Height Limitations: If a fence is to be constructed at the rear or
side yard of a restricted manufacturing lot that abuts a Residential District,
it shall be at least eight feet (8') in height along the lot line that abuts
the Residence District.
      2.   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      3.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the Village Clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence.
   I.   Abutting Residence District:
      1.   Enclosed Operation: Within two hundred feet (200') of Residence
District boundary lines, all operations for establishments engaged in
production, processing, assembling, disassembling, cleaning, servicing,
testing, repairing, or storing of materials, goods, or products, except
accessory off street parking for vehicles in operable condition, shall be
within completely enclosed buildings.
      2.   Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage is permitted in rear yards only,
and then only if completely screened by a solid wall or plantings at least
eight feet (8') in height. Open storage shall not be of greater height than
that of the enclosing fence or plantings. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009; amd. Ord.
2013-11, 3-21-2013; Ord. 2014-17, 6-5-2014; Ord. 2019-74, 12-19-2019)
11-7-7: M2 GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the M2 General Manufacturing District is to
provide for the establishment of areas characterized by more intense industrial
and manufacturing uses which generally exhibit higher levels of objectionable
external effects. This district should not be located adjacent to Residential
Districts, and its contiguity to commercial and business areas should, wherever
possible, be avoided. Uses permitted in this district will provide for those
basic industries needed to expand employment opportunities within the Village.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the M2 General
Manufacturing District:
      All permitted uses in the M1 Restricted Manufacturing District.
      Adult-use cannabis craft growers.
      Adult-use cannabis cultivation centers.
      Adult-use cannabis infuser facilities.
      Adult-use cannabis processing facilities.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facilities
      Automobile salvage yards and junkyards.
      Chemical industries.
      Concrete products manufacturing.
      Feed milling and processing.
      Food products manufacturing.
      Petroleum refining.
      Radioactive materials laboratory.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   C.   Special Permitted Uses: The following uses are allowed in the M2
General Manufacturing District only as special permitted uses:
      Adult-use cannabis craft growers.
      Adult-use cannabis cultivation centers.
      Adult-use cannabis infuser facilities.
      Adult-use cannabis processing facilities.
      Adult-use cannabis transporting facilities.
      Airports and landing fields.
      Asphaltic concrete plants.
      Crematories.
      Medical marijuana cultivation centers or dispensing organizations
authorized pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act.
      Mining, quarrying.
      Refuse disposal services.
      Sanitary landfills.
      Temporary buildings, both incidental and necessary for construction, for
a period of not more than six (6) months.
      Wind energy conversion systems, other than small.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   D.   Building Height: No structure shall exceed four (4) stories or forty
five feet (45') in height. Grain elevators are exempted from the height
restrictions of this subsection.
   E.   Lot Requirements: None.
   F.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front yards: No minimum.
         b.   Side yards: No minimum.
         c.   Rear yard: Not less than ten feet (10').
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings. However, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, that owner has the authority to trim
said growth back to the lot line.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   H.   Fences:
      1.   Location: Any fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      2.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the Village Clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2014-17, 6-5-2014; Ord. 2019-74, 12-19-2019)
11-7-8: A AGRICULTURE DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the A Agriculture District is to govern the use
of land, buildings, and structures within areas of the Village where soil,
topographic, and other conditions are best suited for the pursuit of
agriculture or where essential community facilities or utilities do not yet or
are not reasonably expected to serve the property. These regulations are
further intended to provide for the protection and conservation of natural
resources, to prevent or minimize conflicts between agricultural and
nonagricultural land uses, and to facilitate orderly and efficient urban
development by preventing a scattered and indiscriminate pattern of urban
growth.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the A Agriculture
District:
   Accessory building, structure and uses appropriate for agriculture uses,
including for the growing, harvesting, and preparing of copy products for
market, or for use on the farm, or for storing and protecting farm machinery
and equipment from the elements.
   Agricultural uses, crop farming.
   Cemeteries.
   Gardening, including truck farming.
   Greenhouses.
   Orchards.
   Plant nurseries.
   Public parks.
   Single-family residential dwellings, provided that the minimum lot area of
the dwelling unit is at least one (1) acre. Other regulations and standards set
forth in section
11-7-1 for a single-family residential dwelling shall apply.
   Wind energy conversion system (WECS), small.
   Other uses of the same general character as above.
   C.   Special Permitted Uses: The following uses are allowed in the A
Agriculture District only as special permitted uses:
   Commercial recreational uses.
   Medical marijuana cultivation centers or dispensing organizations authorized
pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
   Private airports and landing fields.
   Wind energy conversion systems, other than small.
   D.   Building Height: No structure shall exceed four (4) stories or forty
five feet (45') in height.
   E.   Lot Requirements: None.
   F.   Yard and Open Space Requirements: The following setback line
regulations and standards shall apply to all structures, except as are
permitted in yards:
      1.   Front Yards:
         a.   Where the lots abut an arterial street as defined by the Village,
the minimum setback shall be one hundred fifty fee (150') from the centerline
of such right of way, but not less than fifty feet (50') from the right of way
line.
         b.   Where the lot abuts a collector or a minor/local street as
defined by the Village, the minimum setback line shall be one hundred feet
(100') as measured from the centerline of such right of way, but not less than
sixty feet (60') from the right of way line.
      2.   Side yard: Each side yard shall be a minimum of thirty feet (30'),
and for each additional story above the first two (2) stories, an additional
ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear Yard: The rear yard shall be a minimum of one hundred feet
(100').
   G.   Fences:
      1.   Location: Any fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      2.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the Village Clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009)
   H.   Accessory Structures: An accessory structure appropriate for
agriculture uses may be constructed without a primary structure in this zoning
district. An accessory structure may not exceed:
      1.   Two thousand (2,000) square feet on parcels less than five (5)
acres; or
      2.   Three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet on parcels that are
between five (5) and ten (10) acres; or
      3.   Five thousand (5,000) square feet on parcels greater than ten (10)
acres.
(Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009; amd. Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013; Ord. 2014-17, 6-5-
2014; Ord. 2021-03, 2-4-2021)
11-7-9: PU PUBLIC USE DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of this PU Public Use District is to allow for the
establishment and maintenance of public uses, publicly regulated uses, and
private uses that display or have an inherent relationship to the public
interest. The creation of such a district is intended to provide areas for the
retention of public lands necessary for open spaces and structures designed for
public recreation and to provide areas for the location of buildings and
structures for public education, recreation and other public and semipublic
uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the PU Public Use
District:
      Airport, heliport.
      Arena, stadium.
      Art gallery, museum.
      Auditorium.
      Churches and other places of public worship.
      College, university classroom.
      Community center.
      Convention center.
      Correctional institutions, detention centers and rehabilitation centers.
      Dormitory.
      Electric power plants and substations.
      Fieldhouse.
      Fire station.
      Gas company plants and facilities.
      Golf course, public.
      Gymnasium.
      Hospital.
      Ice rink.
      Legislative hall.
      Library.
      Nursing and retirement homes.
      Parking lots, public.
      Police station.
      Radio, TV station.
      Recreation center.
      Sanitary landfill.
      School administrative offices.
      School bus garages and/or repair shops, public transit garages.
      Schools; elementary, junior high, or high school.
      Sewer treatment facilities; public.
      Student residence hall.
      Swimming facility.
      Telecommunication antenna and related telecommunication antenna
facilities.
      Telephone exchange.
      Warehouse and storage areas for schools or government.
      Water filtration/treatment plants and elevated and underground storage
tanks.
      Wind energy conversion system (WECS), small.
      Zoo.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   C.   Special Permitted Uses: No special permitted uses are permitted in this
district.
   D.   Lot Requirements: The following minimum lot requirements shall be
observed:
      1.   Lot area: No minimum.
      2.   Lot width: No minimum.
   E.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front yards: No minimum.
         b.   Side yards: No minimum.
         c.   Rear yard: Not less than ten feet (10').
         d.   If the side yard or rear yard abuts a Residential District, there
shall be a minimum five foot (5') side yard and twenty foot (20') rear yard.
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings. However, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, that owner has the authority to trim
said growth back to the lot line.
   F.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   G.   Fences:
      1.   Height Limitations: If a fence is to be constructed at the rear or
side yard of a public use lot that abuts a Residential District, it shall be at
least six feet (6') in height along the lot line that abuts the Residence
District.
      2.   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      3.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the Village Clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence. (Ord. 2013-11,
3-21-2013)
11-7-10: MX MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The intent of this MX Mixed Use District is to accommodate
development characterized by a mixture of housing types in commercial areas and
to facilitate the development and redevelopment of areas suited to a
combination of commercial and residential uses within the same building. It is
recognized that some mature areas of the Village are comprised of a variety of
compatible uses and the MX Mixed Use District is created for the purpose of
maintaining the vitality of such areas and encouraging appropriate
redevelopment.
   B.   Purpose: The purposes of the MX Mixed Use District are to:
      1.   Accommodate mixed-use buildings with neighborhood-serving retail,
service, and other uses on the ground floor and residential units above the
non-residential space;
      2.   Encourage development that exhibits the physical design
characteristics of pedestrian-oriented, storefront-style shopping streets;
      3.   Allow for the conversion of dwelling units in older commercial areas
of mixed dwelling types in order to extend the economic life of these
structures and allow owners to justify expenditures for repairs and
modernization; and
      4.   Serve as a zone of transition between commercially dense districts
and residential districts by permitting residential occupancy in the units
above the non-residential space.
   C.   Definition:
 
                    A building that contains at least one floor devoted to
MIXED-USE BUILDING: allowed non-residential uses and at least one devoted to
                    allowed residential uses.
 
   D.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the MX Mixed Use
District:
      Banks.
      Barbershops.
      Fire stations.
      Hotels and motels.
      Laundromats.
      Offices.
      Printing shops.
      Recreational activities, commercial types.
      Restaurants.
      Retail stores.
      Single-family residential (upper level only).
      Theaters, other than drive-ins.
      Other uses of the same general character as above.
   E.   Building Height: No principal structure shall exceed three (3) stories
or thirty five feet (35') in height. No accessory structure shall exceed one
story or fifteen feet (15') in height.
   F.   Lot Requirements: The following minimum lot requirements shall be
observed:
      1.   Lot Area: Two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet for all
mixed use.
      2.   Lot Width: No minimum.
   G.   Yard Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Depths: Yards of the following minimum depths shall be
provided:
         a.   Front Yards: No minimum.
         b.   Side Yards: No minimum.
         c.   Rear Yard: Not less than ten feet (10').
         d.   If the side yard or rear yard abuts a residential district, there
shall be a minimum five foot (5') side yard and twenty foot (20') rear yard.
      2.   Vegetation In Yards: Property owners may plant bushes, trees,
flowers or other ornamental plantings; however, for any growth extending over
the lot line of an adjoining neighbor, or that any way may reasonably become a
danger or nuisance to the community, the vegetation may be required to be
abated.
   H.   Off-Street Parking And Loading Requirements: All off-street parking and
loading shall conform to the requirements enumerated in chapter 11 of this
title.
   I.   Fences:
      1.   Height Limitations: If a fence is to be constructed at the rear or
side yard of a MX Mixed Use lot that abuts a residential district, it shall be
at least six feet (6') in height along the lot line that abuts the residence
district.
      2.   Location: The fence must be at least six inches (6") from the lot
line. If there are complaints by an adjoining neighbor and the fence is
determined to be closer than six inches (6") from the lot line, the
responsibility is upon the fence owner to remove it at his own expense.
      3.   Jointly Owned Fences: If adjoining property owners agree in writing
and file an acknowledgment with the village clerk, a fence may be built on the
precise lot line between the properties. The agreement must specify that
neither owner may remove the fence without the permission of the other owner.
Both parties are responsible for the maintenance of the fence.
   J.   Indoor/Outdoor Operations: All permitted uses, including commercial and
residential purposes, in the MX Mixed Use District must be conducted completely
within the enclosed buildings on the lot unless expressly authorized otherwise
by the Village Board. This requirement does not apply to off-street parking or
load areas, outdoor seating areas, or other specifically allowed outdoor
activities in a C Commercial zoning district.
   K.   Signs: All signs shall conform to the requirements enumerated in
chapter 10 of this title.
   L.   Zoning Map Amendment Guidelines: In making its legislative
determination to zone or rezone property to the MX Mixed Use District zoning
classification, the Zoning Committee, Zoning Board of Appeals and/or Planning
Commission may apply the following guidelines to the proposal under
consideration:
      1.   The capacity of existing and proposed community facilities and
utilities including water, sewer, and transportation systems to serve the
permitted uses which might lawfully occur on the property so zoned;
      2.   The relationship of the subject property to the various aspects of
the village's transportation system including pedestrian ways, bicycle paths,
major and collector streets, and public transit;
      3.   The adequacy of public services including schools, police and fire
protection, and solid waste collection serving the property and the impact the
permitted uses would have upon these services;
      4.   The potential impact existing or permitted uses in the vicinity
would have upon the land uses authorized in the MX Mixed Use District and the
impact such uses, if developed, would have upon existing uses in the vicinity;
      5.   The extent to which the proposal will promote balanced growth in the
community and will be consistent with the village's goals for equal housing
opportunity and a variety of housing types;
      6.   The impact any natural disasters, including flooding, would have
upon the permitted uses;
      7.   The impact the proposal would have upon the environment including
noise, air and water pollution;
      8.   The conformance of the proposal to the overall comprehensive plan
and map for the village. (Ord. 2013-48, 11-7-2013)
CHAPTER 8
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose And Intent
11-8-2: Regulations
11-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the planned unit development provisions is to encourage and
allow more creative and imaginative design for land development than is
possible under the more conventional zoning and subdivision regulations. The
planned development also provides for more effective use of the land, better
urban amenities, protection of open space, and likewise protecting valuations
of adjoining properties. The process is intended to be an alternative to the
conventional subdivision of land and lot by lot development contemplated by
title 12 of the village code. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-8-2: REGULATIONS:
The design standards and review process for planned unit developments shall be
as specified in section
12-4-12 of the village code. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 9
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNAS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Short Title
11-9-2: Purpose And Intent
11-9-3: General Prohibition
11-9-4: Definitions
11-9-5: Regulations For Permitted Antennas In Specific Zoning Districts
11-9-6: Special Use Standards
11-9-7: Special Use Process
11-9-8: Variations
11-9-9: Federal Policy
11-9-10: Nonconformities
11-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNAS ORDINANCE of the
village. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-9-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of the regulations set forth in this chapter is to further
an overall plan for the enhancement of public safety, consistent community
development, preservation of property values and the general welfare of the
village. In order to accommodate the communication needs of the residents and
businesses while protecting the public health, safety and general welfare of
the village, the regulations are further intended to: facilitate the provision
of wireless telecommunication services to the residents and businesses of the
village; nonetheless preserve and protect property values; avoid potential
damage to adjacent properties from tower failure; lessen congestion of land and
air space; provide against undue concentrations of telecommunications antennas
and antenna facilities which may create adverse visual effects and detraction
from a neighborhood's character; establish reasonable standards for private and
commercial use of telecommunications antennas; preserve the attractive
character of the village; and recognize that the general welfare of the public
includes a community plan that provides for a community that shall be
aesthetically appealing, healthful, spacious, clean, and well balanced in its
growth and development.
   B.   The promotion of public health and safety is to be accomplished by
reducing the distractive characteristics of telecommunications antenna
facilities or towers and ensuring that unless otherwise necessary,
telecommunications towers or antenna facilities shall not be located in an
established residential neighborhood.
   C.   The regulations of this chapter expressly distinguish between direct
satellite dishes, amateur radio operator antennas, and commercial antennas.
This distinction is necessary in order to ensure compliance with the federal
aviation authority (FAA) and federal communications commission (FCC) policies
and requirements as they affect the telecommunications industry. (Ord. 2009-36,
4-6-2009)
11-9-3: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
Any telecommunications antenna not expressly permitted by this chapter is
prohibited in the village. All telecommunications antennas must comply with all
applicable provisions of the building, electrical and municipal codes of the
village, rules promulgated by the federal aviation authority (FAA) the federal
communications commission (FCC) and regulations of any other agency of the
state, federal or local unit of government with authority to regulate antennas.
(Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
Where a definition is not specifically set forth herein, the term shall be
defined as set forth in section
11-3-2 of this title.
COMMERCIAL MOBILE SERVICES: Mobile services that are for profit, are available
to the public or a substantial portion of the public, and provide subscribers
with the ability to access or receive calls from the public switched telephone
network. Examples are personal communication services (PCS), cellular radio
mobile service and paging.
HEIGHT: The vertical measurement from the ground to the vertical apex of the
telecommunications antenna facility.
PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A digital, radio based service that transmits
and receives low powered electronic signals through networks of linked
transmitter/receiver sites with each transmitter/receiver or base station
covering smaller areas.
PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITIES: Transmitters, receivers, antenna facilities and
other types of installation used for the provision of personal wireless
services.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: Commercial mobile services, cellular telephone
services, specialized mobile radio services (SMR), unlicensed wireless
services, and common carrier wireless exchange access services, as now or
hereafter defined in title 47 United States Code, section 323(C)(7)(c).
RADIO BROADCAST: Traditional AM and FM radio broadcasts and amateur radio
broadcasts (ham radio).
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: A telecommunications antenna shaped like a bowl or dish
and used to receive wireless transmission of radio, data, or video from a
satellite orbiting the earth.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA: A device affixed to the ground, a building or other
structure, which device is used for the wireless transmission or reception of
radio waves. "Telecommunications antenna" includes, but is not limited to,
devices capable of transmitting or receiving radio waves supporting the
following types of communication:
   A.   Television broadcast, multichannel multipoint distribution (wireless
cable), and direct broadcast satellites (DBS).
   B.   Radio broadcast (including AM, FM, shortwave and amateur radio
antennas).
   C.   Wireless telecommunications, personal communication services, personal
wireless services, commercial mobile services, cellular telephone services,
specialized mobile radio services (SMR), unlicensed wireless services and
common carrier wireless exchange access services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA FACILITIES: The mast, pole, latticework, structure,
tower, building, equipment and other supporting material used to mount and
operate a telecommunications antenna and the telecommunications antenna itself.
UNLICENSED WIRELESS SERVICE: The offering of telecommunications services using
duly authorized devices which do not require individual licenses by the FCC,
but does not mean the provision of direct to home satellite services. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
11-9-5: REGULATIONS FOR PERMITTED ANTENNAS IN SPECIFIC ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Residence Districts: Within all R residence districts,
telecommunications antennas are permitted as follows:
      1.   Accessory use satellite dish receiving antennas exceeding one meter
(1 m) in diameter shall be permitted on the following conditions:
         a.   Such antennas shall be located only on a roof or in rear yards
and no closer than five feet (5') from a side or rear lot line and outside of
easements of record; and
         b.   The vertical apex of the telecommunications antenna facility
shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height from ground level for ground
mounted, and fifteen feet (15') in height from the roofline for roof mounted.
      2.   Satellite dish receiving antennas, one meter (1 m) or less in
diameter, television broadcast receiving antennas, multichannel multipoint
distribution receiving antennas, radio broadcast receiving antennas, and
amateur radio antennas (receiving and transmitting), provided all such antennas
are accessory use antennas, shall be permitted on the following conditions:
         a.   Such antennas shall be located only on a roof or in rear or side
yards unless such restriction precludes reception of an acceptable quality
signal. In such case, such antennas may be placed anywhere on the lot except
within an easement of record. Proof of inability to receive an acceptable
quality signal shall be provided to the zoning administrator upon request; and
         b.   The vertical apex of the telecommunications antenna facility
shall not exceed the greater of the district height limit or seventy feet (70')
in height from ground level.
      3.   Other telecommunications antennas are prohibited unless the same are
located on the village right of way or village easement pursuant to an
agreement with the village.
   B.   Agriculture Districts: Within all A agriculture districts,
telecommunications antennas are permitted subject to the bulk requirements
applicable to such district.
   C.   Commercial And Manufacturing Districts: Within the C commercial
districts, M-1 restricted manufacturing district, and M-2 general manufacturing
district, telecommunications antennas are permitted as follows:
      1.   Accessory use satellite dish receiving antennas exceeding two meters
(2 m) in diameter and accessory use mobile radio antennas shall be permitted on
the following conditions:
         a.   Such antennas shall be permitted only on the roof or in the rear
or side yards;
         b.   Such antennas shall not be placed on an easement of record or
within five feet (5') of a property line; and
         c.   The vertical apex of the telecommunications antenna facility
shall not exceed the greater of the zoning district height regulations, or
fifteen feet (15') in height above the building roofline for roof mounted.
      2.   Satellite dish receiving antennas less than two meters (2 m) in
diameter, television broadcast receiving antennas, multichannel multipoint
distribution receiving antennas, radio broadcast receiving antennas and amateur
radio antennas (receiving and transmitting), provided all such antennas are
accessory use antennas, shall be permitted on the following conditions:
         a.   Such antennas shall be located only on a roof or in rear or side
yards unless such restriction precludes reception of an acceptable quality
signal. In such case, such antennas may be placed anywhere on the lot except
within an easement of record. Proof of inability to receive an acceptable
quality signal shall be provided to the zoning administrator upon request; and
         b.   The vertical apex of the telecommunications antenna facility
shall not exceed the greater of the district height limit or seventy feet (70')
in height from ground level.
      3.   Accessory use mobile radio antennas not meeting the conditions of
this chapter and all other telecommunications antennas shall be permitted only
as a special use pursuant to the procedures of section
11-5-6 of this title and the standards set forth herein. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-
2009)
11-9-6: SPECIAL USE STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to specify standards that shall
be required to be met before the issuance of a special use permit.
   B.   Application Requirements:
      1.   Submission of a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the location and
dimensions of existing and proposed buildings or structures, natural or manmade
features, topography, elevations and location of landscaping and lighting.
      2.   Description of the proposed telecommunications antenna facility
including certification by an engineer regarding the structural integrity of
the facilities, and evidence of compliance with FCC emission standards.
      3.   Site needs and sharing capabilities. An inventory of the existing
telecommunications antenna facilities including, but not limited to, existing
antenna facilities, silos, water tanks, and buildings. Notification by way of
certified mail shall be submitted as proof of exhausting possible avenues for
sharing space.
      4.   Maintenance plan. A description of anticipated maintenance needs,
including frequency of service, personnel needs, equipment needs, and traffic,
noise and safety impacts on such maintenance.
      5.   Proof of approval or compliance with FAA standards.
      6.   Proof of liability insurance in the minimum single limit amount of
two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) with the village named as an
additional insured.
   C.   Bulk Regulations:
      1.   Lot Size: Minimum lot size for the district in which the facilities
are located.
      2.   Setback: A setback from adjoining property lines is required in
order to minimize the adverse effects of falling ice or damage due to antenna
collapse. A setback of fifty percent (50%) of the telecommunications antenna
facility height shall be maintained, except a setback of five hundred feet
(500') shall be maintained from all residential zoning districts and from
buildings used for residential dwelling, daycare, or elementary or secondary
schools.
      3.   Separation From Other Antenna Facilities: In order to encourage
collocation of antennas on a common facility, all new antenna facilities
exceeding seventy feet (70') in height shall not be located within one-fourth
(1/4) mile (or 1,320 feet) of another antenna facility which exceeds seventy
feet (70') in height.
      4.   Height: Antenna facilities shall not exceed one hundred five feet
(105') in height.
   D.   Screening And Landscaping:
      1.   The facility and every element thereof shall be aesthetically and
architecturally compatible with the architecture of surrounding area.
      2.   The proposed buildings, structures and use will be in harmony with
the general character of the neighborhood.
      3.   Lighting shall be consistent with FAA guidelines and have a minimal
spillover effect on adjoining property. Lighting not controlled by FAA
guidelines shall comply with the provisions of this title.
   E.   Interference: The proposed facility shall not cause unreasonable
interference with existing radio, television, telephone or DBS reception or
services.
   F.   Effect On Adjoining Properties: The proposed facility will cause no
objectionable noise, fumes, odors, glare, physical activity or effect that
would impair the reasonable and peaceful enjoyment of neighboring properties.
   G.   Adequate Public Facilities: The proposed facility will be served by
adequate public services and facilities, including police and fire protection,
water and sanitary sewer, storm drainage, public roads and other public
improvements.
   H.   FCC Compliance: The proposed facility shall meet FCC requirements.
   I.   Compliance With Other Codes: The proposed facility shall comply with
all other building and housing codes per title 10, chapter 1 of the village
code, the provisions of this title, and all other codes of applicable state,
federal and local agencies with jurisdiction over such facility.
   J.   Abandonment: Facilities that remain unused for more than one year shall
be demolished at the owner's cost.
   K.   Collocation Or Shared Use: Applicants shall be required to exhaust all
possible avenues for sharing space on existing antenna facilities. Evidence
shall be submitted showing the following:
      1.   The availability of space on existing telecommunications antenna
facilities;
      2.   The willingness of the telecommunications antenna facility owner to
execute a lease with the applicant and whether or not the terms of such lease
are agreeable to applicant;
      3.   The ability of the applicant to reasonably meet its geographic
service area requirements by locating on existing telecommunications antenna
facilities;
      4.   Any radio, mechanical or electrical incompatibilities, conflicts, or
interference caused by using an existing telecommunications antenna facility;
      5.   The comparative costs of new construction and collocation; and
      6.   Any FCC or other governmental restrictions on collocation.
   L.   Signs: No signs shall be permitted on antenna facilities other than
warning or equipment signs; however, the antenna may be located on an existing
sign structure.
   M.   Waivers: The mayor and board of trustees may modify or waive any of the
foregoing special use standards where such waiver or modification is in the
public interest or necessary to comply with federal law.
   N.   General Conditions: Standards applicable to all special uses include
the following:
      1.   Ingress and egress to property and proposed structures shall be
located and designed in a manner which will maximize automotive and pedestrian
safety and convenience, facilitate traffic flow and control and provide easy
and adequate access in case of fire or other catastrophe.
      2.   Off street parking and loading areas (see chapter 11 of this title),
where required or provided, shall be located and designed in a manner which
will maximize the items referred to in subsection N1 of this section and will
minimize any adverse economic, noise, glare or odor effects of the special use
on adjoining or nearby properties.
      3.   Refuse and service areas, if provided, shall be located and designed
in a manner so as to accomplish the objectives specified in subsections N1 and
N2 of this section.
      4.   Utilities provided in connection with the special use shall be
designed and located so as to encourage the efficient and economic utilization,
extension and expansion of the public utility system.
      5.   Screening and buffering materials shall be sufficient to ensure that
the proposed special use will have no greater impact on surrounding land uses
than other uses authorized as a matter of right.
      6.   Proposed exterior lighting shall be located and designed to maximize
traffic safety and compatibility and harmony with adjoining or nearby
properties and so as to minimize glare, noise and adverse economic impact on
surrounding properties or authorized land uses.
      7.   Required yards and open spaces shall be sufficient to ensure that
the proposed special use will have no greater impact on surrounding land uses
than other uses authorized as a matter of right.
      8.   The site on which the special use is located shall be designed to
make the proposed use generally compatible with adjoining or nearby properties.
      9.   The special use shall in all other respects conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located and of the
village code, except as such regulations may in each instance be modified by
the board of trustees pursuant to the recommendations of the zoning board of
appeals or as allowed for a planned unit development. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-9-7: SPECIAL USE PROCESS:
   A.   Application For Permit: Application for a special use permit shall be
submitted in the office of the village clerk on forms approved by the village
clerk. No application shall be processed unless accompanied by the appropriate
filing fee.
   B.   Hearing On Application: Upon receipt in proper form of an application
and supporting material, the zoning board of appeals shall hold at least one
public hearing on the application for a special use permit, in the manner
provided in section
11-5-6 of this title.
   C.   Action By Zoning Board Of Appeals: No special use permit shall be
recommended by the zoning board of appeals until written findings of fact are
made indicating:
      1.   The extent to which the special use standards specified in section
11-9-6 of this chapter are met.
      2.   Recommendations, if any, of conditions deemed reasonably necessary
to meet any or all of such general or specific special use permit standards.
   D.   Action By Village Board: The mayor and board of trustees must grant or
deny any application for a special use permit after receiving the report of
findings and recommendation of the zoning board of appeals including the
recommended stipulations of additional conditions and guarantees when they are
deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest. All decisions of
the mayor and board of trustees shall be in writing and based on written
findings of fact.
   E.   Protests: In case a written protest against any proposed special use
permit, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage to be altered, the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
directly opposite the frontage to be altered, or by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley
therefrom, is filed with the village clerk, the special use permit cannot be
granted except on the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all members of the
board of trustees.
   F.   Refiling Period: No application for a special use which has been denied
wholly or in part by the mayor and board of trustees shall be resubmitted for a
period of one year from the date of said denial, except on the grounds of new
evidence or proof of change of conditions found to be valid by the mayor and
board of trustees. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-9-8: VARIATIONS:
In the event the standards and requirements of this chapter impair the receipt
or transmission of an acceptable signal quality for an accessory use antenna
(except accessory use mobile radio antennas), the board of trustees, after a
public hearing is held by the zoning board of appeals, may grant a variance in
the strict application of this chapter and the provisions of this title. Such
variance shall be no greater than reasonably necessary to receive or transmit
an acceptable quality signal and shall be conditioned, where necessary, to
protect public safety. See section
11-5-5 of this title for the regulations and procedures of variances. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-9-9: FEDERAL POLICY:
In considering any special use permit and variation request, the following
federal policy directives shall be followed:
   A.   All requests shall be processed within ninety (90) days after the
application is properly filed with the village clerk. The ninety (90) day time
limit may be extended by agreement.
   B.   The substantive decision made by the appropriate body shall not
unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally equivalent services
and shall not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provisions of the
particular telecommunications technology in the village. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-
2009)
11-9-10: NONCONFORMITIES:
Nonconforming telecommunications antennas and antenna facilities which are
lawful at the effective date hereof or amendment hereto that could not be built
under the terms of this title, may continue so long as the same remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following:
   A.   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than fifty percent
(50%) of its fair cash market value prior to the time of destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   C.   Should such nonconforming structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
   D.   Ordinary repairs may be made to an extent not exceeding fifty percent
(50%) of the fair cash market value of the nonconforming structure. (Ord. 2009-
36, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 10
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Short Title
11-10-2: Purpose And Intent
11-10-3: General Prohibition
11-10-4: Rules And Definitions
11-10-5: General Provisions
11-10-6: Exempt Signs
11-10-7: Prohibited Signs
11-10-8: Required Permits
11-10-9: Specific Sign Requirements
11-10-10: Construction Specifications
11-10-11: Variances
11-10-12: Violations
11-10-13: Penalties
11-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SIGN REGULATIONS ORDINANCE of the
village. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-10-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of the regulations set forth in this chapter is to further
an overall plan for the enhancement of public safety, consistent community
development, preservation of property values, and the general welfare of the
village. The regulations are further intended to: aid in traffic control and
safety; preserve and protect property values; lessen congestion of land and air
space; provide against undue concentrations of signs which distract and
endanger traffic safety and traffic flow; establish reasonable standards for
commercial and other advertising through the use of signs in order to maintain
and encourage business activity and area development; avoid uncontrolled
proliferation of signs; recognize the rights of the public in its use of roads,
streets and highways; preserve the wholesome and attractive character of the
village; and recognize that the general welfare of the public includes a
community plan that provides for a community that shall be aesthetically
pleasing as well as healthful, spacious, clean, and well balanced in its growth
and development.
   B.   The promotion of the public health and safety is to be accomplished by
reducing the distractive characteristics of signs along public streets and
highways, by prohibiting all signs which interfere with public traffic control
devices, and by assuring the establishment of adequate and sufficient standards
for the erection and maintenance of all signs and sign structures.
   C.   The promotion of the public comfort and welfare is to be accomplished
by reducing the number of signs in the village and by ensuring adequate and
appropriate spacing of signs so that confusion is reduced and so that
businesses can effectively communicate with the public. The public comfort and
welfare will be furthered by regulating the size, height, location and general
characteristics of permitted signs in order to protect and to enhance the
physical appearance and scenic value of the village and the surrounding area,
and by regulating signs located near or visible from public property such as
streets, highways, parks, schools, nursing homes and hospitals where such signs
could jeopardize the public's investment in these facilities. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-
6-2009)
11-10-3: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
Any sign not expressly permitted by this chapter is prohibited in the village
unless a variance is granted by the board of trustees pursuant to section
11-10-11 of this chapter. In addition, all signs must comply with all
applicable provisions of this chapter, the building and housing codes
(title 10, chapter 1 of the village code), property maintenance code (
title 10, chapter 2 of the village code), and all other municipal codes of the
village. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-10-4: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Rules Of Construction: The language set forth in the text of this
chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      1.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular;
      2.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future tense includes the present;
      3.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive;
      4.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter genders;
      5.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in subsection B of
this section; and
      6.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot. If a
fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or more, the integral foot next above shall be
taken.
   B.   Definitions: Where a definition is not specifically set forth herein,
the term shall be as defined in section
11-3-2 of this title.
   ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any
person, advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, product or activity
conducted or product available on or off the premises where such sign is
displayed.
   ADMINISTRATING OFFICIAL: The zoning administrator or his duly authorized
designee. In the event that office is vacant, see chapter 5 of this title.
   ANIMATED SIGN: A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of motion.
"Animated signs", which are differentiated from "changeable signs" as defined
and regulated by this chapter, include the following types:
   Electrically Activated: Animated signs producing the illusion of movement by
means of electronic, electrical or electromechanical input and/or illumination
capable of simulating movement through employment of the characteristics of one
or both of the following classifications:
      1.   Flashing: Animated signs or animated portions of signs whose
illumination is characterized by a repetitive cycle in which the period of
illumination is either the same as or less than the period of nonillumination.
For the purposes of this chapter, "flashing" will not be defined as occurring
if the cyclical period between on-off phases of illumination exceeds four (4)
seconds.
      2.   Patterned Illusionary Movement: Animated signs or animated portions
of signs whose illumination is characterized by simulated movement through
alternate or sequential activation of various illuminated elements for the
purpose of producing repetitive light patterns designed to appear in some form
of constant motion.
   Environmentally Activated: Animated signs or devices motivated by wind,
thermal changes or other natural environmental input; includes spinners,
pinwheels, pennant strings, and/or other devices or displays that respond to
naturally occurring external motivation.
   Mechanically Activated: Animated signs characterized by repetitive motion
and/or rotation activated by a mechanical system powered by electric motors or
other mechanically induced means.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION: Any projection that is not intended for occupancy
and that extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of a building, but does
not include signs as defined herein. See also definitions of Awning, Backlit
Awning; and Canopy (Attached) and Canopy (Freestanding).
   AWNING: An architectural projection or shelter projecting from and supported
by the exterior wall of a building and composed of a covering of rigid or
nonrigid materials and/or fabric on a supporting framework that may be either
permanent or retractable, including such structures that are internally
illuminated by fluorescent or other light sources.
   AWNING SIGN: A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or
surfaces of an awning. See also definition of Wall Or Fascia Sign.
   BACKLIT AWNING: An awning with a translucent covering material and a source
of illumination contained within its framework.
   BANNER: A flexible substrate on which copy or graphics may be displayed.
   BANNER SIGN: A sign utilizing a banner as its display surface.
   BILLBOARD: See definitions of Off Premises Sign and Outdoor Advertising
Sign.
   BUILDING ELEVATION: The entire side of a building, from ground level to the
roofline, as viewed perpendicular to the walls on that side of the building.
   BUILDING FACADE: All windows and wall areas in one plane or elevation.
   CANOPY (ATTACHED): A multisided overhead structure or architectural
projection supported by attachments to a building on one or more sides and
either cantilevered from such building or also supported by columns at
additional points. The surface(s) and/or soffit of an attached canopy may be
illuminated by means of internal or external sources of light. See also
definition of Marquee.
   CANOPY (FREESTANDING): A multisided overhead structure supported by columns,
but not enclosed by walls. The surface(s) and/or soffit of a freestanding
canopy may be illuminated by means of internal or external sources of light.
   CANOPY SIGN: A sign affixed to the visible surface(s) of an attached or
freestanding canopy.
   CHANGEABLE SIGN: A sign with the capability of content change by means of
manual or remote input, including signs which are:
      1.   Manually activated. Changeable sign whose message copy or content
can be changed manually.
      2.   Electrically activated. Changeable sign whose message copy or
content can be changed by means of remote electrically energized on-off
switching combinations of alphabetic or pictographic components arranged on a
display surface. Illumination may be integral to the components, such as
characterized by lamps or other light emitting devices; or it may be from an
external light source designed to reflect off the changeable component display.
See also definition of Electronic Message Sign Or Center.
   COMBINATION SIGN: A sign that is supported partly by a pole and partly by a
building structure.
   COPY: Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic elements
comprising the content or message of a sign, excluding numerals identifying a
street address only.
   DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX SIGN: A freestanding sign identifying a multiple
occupancy development, such as a shopping center or planned industrial park,
which is controlled by a single owner or landlord.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN: Any sign that is designed and erected for the purpose of
providing direction and/or orientation for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   DOUBLE FACED SIGN: A sign with two (2) faces, back to back.
   ELECTRIC SIGN: Any sign activated or illuminated by means of electrical
energy.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER: An electrically activated changeable sign
whose variable message capability can be electronically programmed.
   EXTERIOR SIGN: Any sign placed outside a building.
   FACADE: See definition of Building Facade.
   FASCIA SIGN: See definition of Wall Or Fascia Sign.
   FLASHING SIGN: See definition of Animated Sign, Electrically Activated.
   FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to
the ground, and not supported by a building, including signs supported by one
or more columns, poles or braces placed in or upon the ground.
   FRONTAGE (BUILDING): The length of an exterior building wall or structure of
a single premises oriented to the public way or other properties that it faces.
   FRONTAGE (PROPERTY): The length of the property line(s) of any single
premises along either a street or public right of way.
   HIGH RISE SIGN: A sign that exceeds the allowable height as defined in
section
11-10-9, figures 1, 2 and 3 of this chapter.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign characterized by the use of artificial light,
either projecting through its surface(s) (internally illuminated) or reflecting
off its surface(s) (externally illuminated).
   INTERIOR SIGN: Any sign placed within a building, but not including "window
signs" as defined in this section. Interior signs, with the exception of window
signs as defined in this section, are not regulated by this chapter.
   LOW RISE SIGN: A sign that meets the height and area requirements of section
11-10-9, tables 1 and 2, of this chapter.
   MANSARD: An inclined decorative rooflike projection that is attached to an
exterior building facade.
   MARQUEE: See definition of Canopy (Attached).
   MARQUEE SIGN: See definition of Canopy Sign.
   MENU BOARD: A freestanding sign oriented to the drive- through lane for a
restaurant that advertises the menu items available from the drive-through
window.
   MONUMENT SIGN: A freestanding sign that has at least seventy five percent
(75%) of its sign display area in contact with the ground and a decorative sign
base.
   MULTIPLE FACED SIGN: A sign containing three (3) or more faces.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to the effective date hereof and any amendments
hereto, and which fails to conform to all applicable regulations and
restrictions of this title.
   OFF PREMISES SIGN: See definition of Outdoor Advertising Sign.
   ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign erected, maintained or used in the outdoor
environment for the purpose of the display of messages appurtenant to the use
of, products sold on, or the sale or lease of the property on which it is
displayed.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN: A permanent sign erected, maintained or used in
the outdoor environment for the purpose of the display of commercial or
noncommercial messages not appurtenant to the use of, products sold on, or the
sale or lease of the property on which it is displayed.
   PARAPET: The extension of a building facade above the line of the structural
roof.
   POLE SIGN: See definition of Freestanding Sign.
   POLITICAL SIGN: A temporary sign intended to advance a political statement,
cause or candidate for office. A legally permitted outdoor advertising sign
shall not be considered to be a political sign.
   PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or to a
building or building surface.
   PROJECTING SIGN: A sign, other than a wall sign, that is attached to or
projects more than eighteen inches (18") (457 mm) from a building face or wall
or from a structure whose primary purpose is other than the support of a sign.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of
the property or premises upon which it is located.
   REVOLVING SIGN: A sign that revolves three hundred sixty degrees (360°)
about an axis. See also definition of Animated Sign, Mechanically Activated.
   ROOF SIGN: A sign mounted on and supported by the main roof portion of a
building, or above the uppermost edge of a parapet wall of a building, and
which is wholly or partially supported by such a building. Signs mounted on
mansard facades, pent eaves and architectural projections such as canopies or
marquees shall not be considered to be roof signs.
   ROOFLINE: The top edge of a peaked roof or, in the case of an extended
facade or parapet, the uppermost point of said facade or parapet.
   SIGN: Any device visible from a public place that displays either commercial
or noncommercial messages by means of graphic presentation of alphabetic or
pictorial symbols or representations.
   SIGN AREA: The area of the smallest geometric figure, or the sum of the
combination of regular geometric figures, which comprise the sign face. The
area of any double sided or V-shaped sign shall be the area of the largest
single face only. The area of a sphere shall be computed as the area of a
circle. The area of all other multiple sided signs shall be computed as fifty
percent (50%) of the sum of the area of all faces of the sign.
   SIGN COPY: Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic
elements comprising the content or message of a sign, exclusive of numerals
identifying a street address only.
   SIGN FACE: The surface upon, against or through which the sign copy is
displayed or illustrated, not including structural supports, architectural
features of a building or sign structure, nonstructural or decorative trim, or
any areas that are separated from the background surface upon which the sign
copy is displayed by a distinct delineation, such as a reveal or border.
      1.   In the case of panel or cabinet type signs, the sign face shall
include the entire area of the sign panel, cabinet or face substrate upon which
the sign copy is displayed or illustrated, but not open space between separate
panels or cabinets.
      2.   In the case of sign structures with routed areas of sign copy, the
sign face shall include the entire area of the surface that is routed, except
where interrupted by a reveal, border, or a contrasting surface or color.
      3.   In the case of signs painted on a building, or individual letters or
graphic elements affixed to a building or structure, the sign face shall
comprise the sum of the geometric figures or combination of regular geometric
figures drawn closest to the edge of the letters or separate graphic elements
comprising the sign copy, but not the open space between separate groupings of
sign copy on the same building or structure.
      4.   In the case of sign copy enclosed within a painted or illuminated
border, or displayed on a background contrasting in color with the color of the
building or structure, the sign face shall comprise the area within the
contrasting background, or within the painted or illuminated border.
   SIGN STRUCTURE: Any structure supporting a sign. The area of the sign
structure shall not exceed two (2) times the sign area.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign intended to display either commercial or
noncommercial messages of a transitory or temporary nature. Portable signs or
any sign not permanently embedded in the ground, or not permanently affixed to
a building or sign structure that is permanently embedded in the ground, are
considered temporary signs.
   UNDER CANOPY SIGN OR UNDER MARQUEE SIGN: A sign attached to the underside of
a canopy or marquee.
   V SIGN: Signs containing two (2) faces of approximately equal size, erected
upon common or separate structures, positioned in a V shape with an interior
angle between faces of not more than ninety degrees (90°) with the distance
between the sign faces not exceeding five feet (5') (1,524 mm) at their closest
point.
   WALL OR FASCIA SIGN: A sign that is in any manner affixed to any exterior
wall of a building or structure and that projects not more than eighteen inches
(18") (457 mm) from the building or structure wall, including signs affixed to
architectural projections from a building, provided the copy area of such signs
remains on a parallel plane to the face of the building facade or to the face
or faces of the architectural projection to which it is affixed.
   WINDOW SIGN: A sign affixed to the surface of a window with its message
intended to be visible to and readable from the public way or from adjacent
property.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The zoning board of appeals of the village of
Heyworth.
   ZONING CODE: This title. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-10-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conformance To Codes: Any sign hereafter erected shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter, the provisions of title 10 of the village code and
the provisions of any other applicable ordinance or regulation of the village.
   B.   Signs In Public Rights Of Way:
      1.   No sign, other than an official traffic sign or similar sign, shall
be erected within the right of way of any street, or within any public way,
unless specifically authorized by other ordinances or regulations of the
village or by specific authorization of a village official.
      2.   Such signs may be deemed a hazard to the community and may be
removed immediately by the zoning administrator or delegate. These signs may be
disposed of or held at the discretion of the sign administrator for retrieval
by the offending party.
   C.   Traffic Visibility: No sign or sign structure shall be erected at the
intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision, nor at any location where, by its position, shape or color, it may
interfere with or obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device. See subsection
11-4-5B and section
11-12-1, figure 2, of this title for further information on traffic sign
regulations.
   D.   Computation Of Frontage: If a premises contains walls facing more than
one property line or encompasses property frontage bounded by more than one
street or other property usages, the allowable sign area for the parcel shall
be computed on the longer of the sides fronting a right of way.
   E.   Maintenance, Repair And Removal: Every sign permitted by this chapter
shall be kept in good condition and repair. When any sign becomes insecure, in
danger of falling or is otherwise deemed unsafe by the administrating official,
or if any sign shall be unlawfully installed, erected or maintained in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the owner thereof or the
person or firm using same shall, upon written notice by the administrating
official forthwith in the case of immediate danger, and in any case within not
more than ten (10) days, make such sign conform to the provisions of this
chapter, or shall remove it. If, within ten (10) days, there is not compliance
with the order, the code official shall be permitted to remove or cause such
sign to be removed at the expense of the owner and/or the user of the sign.
   F.   Obsolete Nonpremises Sign Copy: Any sign copy that no longer advertises
or identifies a use conducted on the property on which said sign is erected
must have the sign copy covered or removed within thirty (30) days after
written notification from the village administrating official; and upon failure
to comply with such notice, the administrating official is hereby authorized to
cause removal of such sign copy, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid
by the owner of the building, structure or ground on which the sign is located.
   G.   Nonconforming Signs: Any sign legally existing at the effective date
hereof that does not conform in use, location, height or size with the
regulations of the zone in which such sign is located shall be considered a
legal nonconforming use or structure and shall be permitted to continue in such
status until the earlier of such time as it is either abandoned or removed by
its owner. A nonconforming sign may not be:
      1.   Changed to another nonconforming sign.
      2.   Structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the sign.
      3.   Expanded.
      4.   Reestablished after its removal for a period of more than thirty
(30) days.
      5.   Reestablished after damage or destruction if the estimated expense
of reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its fair cash value prior to
the time of destruction.
See the provisions of section
11-4-7 of this title for further requirements regarding nonconforming uses.
   H.   Freestanding Sign Design Regulations:
      1.   All freestanding signs including, but not limited to, on premises,
high rise and outdoor advertising signs (billboards) shall be constructed and
designed so as not to detract aesthetically or create an adverse economic
impact upon adjacent or surrounding property.
      2.   The following basic design elements shall be considered by the
village prior to the issuance of a permit to construct, alter or modify any
sign located in the C commercial district or M manufacturing districts within
the village:
         a.   Structural elements or components of a sign shall be treated or
screened to prevent or reduce the visibility from a public way or an adjacent
property. This shall be accomplished with the use of decorative building
materials and landscape materials including trees, shrubs, bushes or flowers.
         b.   Where an existing or proposed structure is present on a lot, sign
construction shall be similar in design, material and architecture so as to be
harmonious with the building and its surroundings.
         c.   Lighting associated with a freestanding sign shall provide a plan
indicating beam spread foot-candle levels and shall be installed so as to not
spill over or glare onto adjacent property or public right of way.
   I.   Freestanding Sign Location: All freestanding signs must be located on a
lot of record with frontage on a public road. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-10-6: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs shall be exempt from the permit provisions of this chapter.
These signs are permitted in addition to the signs permitted in the respective
use districts, but are subject to the conditions and limitations set forth
herein:
   A.   Official Notices: Official notices authorized by a court, public body
or public safety official.
   B.   Directional, Warning And Information Signs: Directional, warning or
information signs authorized by federal, state or municipal governments.
   C.   Street Address Signs: Street address signs and combination nameplate
and street address signs that contain no advertising copy and which do not
exceed six (6) square feet (0.56 m2) in area or six feet (6') in height.
   D.   Temporary Political Campaign Signs: Temporary political campaign signs
may be erected and maintained within the boundaries of private property only
and shall not extend over or into the public right of way. All such signs shall
be removed within fourteen (14) days following the date of the election to
which the signs pertain.
   E.   Public Signs: Signs of a public, noncommercial nature to include safety
signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, traffic signs, street name signs and
municipal identification signs, signs indicating scenic or historic points of
interest, memorial plaques, signs and emblems of nationally recognized service
club organizations and all signs erected by an order of a public official in
the performance of a public duty.
   F.   Flags: Flags bearing the official design of a nation, state,
municipality, business enterprise, holiday, educational institution or service
organization; such flags to be appropriately and properly displayed.
   G.   Integral Signs: Names of buildings, dates of construction,
commemorative tablets, and similar signs, when carved into stone, concrete or
similar material or made of bronze, aluminum or other permanent type of
construction and made an integral part of the building or structure.
   H.   Private Traffic Direction Signs And Related Signs: Signs directing
traffic movement onto a premises or within a premises, when such signs are
located on the premises, shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area for each
sign and, if freestanding, do not exceed six feet (6') in total height. Such
signs are considered to include parking directions, exit or entrance signs,
drive-up window signs and restroom signs.
   I.   Real Estate Sale Or Rental Signs: An on premises sign, advertising for
sale, rental, or lease, all or a portion thereof, the real estate upon which
such sign is located. All such signs must be removed within fourteen (14) days
following the sale, consummation of the lease, or rental of the property to
which the sign pertains.
   J.   Underground Public Utility Warning Signs: Standard types of warning
signs marking the routes of underground public utility pipes, conduits and
cables.
   K.   Issue Of General Public Interest Sign: Any sign which depicts an issue
of general public interest and/or personal beliefs and views to same may be
erected and maintained within the boundaries of private property only and shall
not extend over or into the public right of way. Such sign is to be removed
within fourteen (14) days after the public interest in question has transpired
or been finalized by court or other governmental mandate. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-
2009)
11-10-7: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following devices and locations shall be specifically prohibited:
   A.   Signs of the size, location, movement, content, coloring or manner of
illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic control
device, or which hides from view any traffic or street sign or signal. No sign
or other advertising structure shall be erected at the intersection of any
street in such a manner as to obstruct the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device, or which makes use of words "stop",
"look", "danger", or any other word, phrase, symbol or character, in such a
manner as to interfere with or mislead or confuse pedestrians or operators of
vehicles upon the thoroughfare.
   B.   Except as provided for elsewhere in this title, signs encroaching upon
or overhanging public right of way. No sign shall be attached to any utility
pole, light standard, street tree or any other public facility located within
the public right of way.
   C.   Any sign which is animated by means of flashing, scintillating,
blinking or traveling lights.
   D.   Portable electric signs.
   E.   Any sign attached to or placed on a vehicle or trailer parked on public
or private property, except for signs meeting the following conditions:
      1.   The primary purpose of such a vehicle or trailer is not the display
of signs.
      2.   The signs are magnetic, decals or painted upon an integral part of
the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the manufacturer, and do not
break the silhouette of the vehicle.
      3.   The vehicle or trailer is in operating condition, currently
registered and licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and
actively used or available for use in the daily function of the business to
which such sign relates.
   F.   Vehicles and trailers used primarily as static displays, advertising a
product or service.
   G.   Balloons, streamers, pinwheels, nonexempt flags or banners, except
those temporarily displayed as part of a special sale, promotion or community
event. For the purposes of this subsection, "temporarily" means no more than
eighty four (84) days in any calendar year.
   H.   Any sign which constitutes an abandoned sign for fourteen (14)
consecutive days.
   I.   No freestanding sign shall be placed or allowed to remain on property
unless such property is a lot of record with frontage on a public road. (Ord.
2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-10-8: REQUIRED PERMITS:
Unless specifically exempted, a building permit and all other applicable
permits must be obtained from the appropriate administrating official for the
erection and maintenance of all signs erected or maintained within the village
and in accordance with other ordinances of the village. See title 10, chapter 3
of the village code for information regarding building permits. (Ord. 2009-36,
4-6-2009)
11-10-9: SPECIFIC SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sign Area Allowed Per Lot: Every building site may display signage up
to the maximum allowed in table 1 of this section. The allowable signage is
contingent upon the style of signs selected for the site and the linear lot
frontage. The allowable sign area for a lot is fifty percent (50%) higher if
all freestanding signs on the lot are "low rise" as defined in note 3 of the
table. The increase in sign area does not increase the maximum freestanding
sign size permitted by figures 1, 2 and 3 of this section.
   TABLE 1
   SIGN SQUARE FOOTAGE ALLOWED PER LINEAR FOOT OF LONGEST LOT FRONTAGE
 
              Site Signage                    Site Signage
Zoning Class  (Wall Signs And/Or Freestanding (Wall Signs And/Or Freestanding
              Low Rise Signs)                 Signs Not Classified As Low Rise)
A, R1, R2, R4 0 1                             01
R3            02                              02
C, PU         2.253                           1.5
M1, M2        33                              2
 
   Notes:
   1.    The square footage in these districts is not determined by lot
frontage; the maximum sign square footage is 2 square feet.
   2.    The signage square footage in these districts is not determined by lot
frontage. The maximum sign square footage is 40 and the maximum height for a
sign is 6 feet.
   3.    The minimum sign package area allowed in PU public use, C commercial
and M manufacturing zoning districts is 50 square feet regardless of the lot
frontage. Sign height is measured from grade to the top of the sign. The width
of a low rise sign shall be not more than twice the allowable height. The
maximum height for a sign to qualify for additional sign area in the PU public
use, C commercial and M manufacturing districts is as follows:
 
Lot frontage 100' or less                        8'0" or less in height
Lot frontage over 100' and less than 200'        10'0" or less in height
Lot frontage over 200'                           12'0" or less in height
Lot frontage over 200' in PU, C and M2 districts 15'0" or less in height
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.0929m2.
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
   B.   Freestanding Signs; Sign Display Restrictions: In addition to any
allowable wall signs, every single-family residential subdivision, multi-family
residential complex, commercial or industrial building, and every separate
nonresidential building in a residential zone shall be permitted to display
freestanding or combination signs per street frontage subject to the limiting
standards set forth in table 2 of this section. Every sign displayed on a site
is subject to the restrictions in table 2 of this section.
      1.   Table 2:
   TABLE 2
   SIGN DISPLAY RESTRICTIONS
 
                                Number         Maximum       Maximum
Zoning District Type Of Sign    Of Signs       Sign Height   Sign Area
                                               (Feet)        (Square Feet)
A, R1, R2, R4   Wall only       1              6 1           21
Special use R1  All other signs 1 of each type Wall height   502
               Freestanding    1 of each type 62            502
R3              All other signs 1 of each type Wall height   403
                                               Figures 1, 2  Figures 1, 2 and
C, PU           All other signs No limit       and 3 of this 3 of this
                                               section4      section4
                                               Figures 1, 2  Figures 1, 2 and
M1, M2          All other signs No limit       and 3 of this 3 of this
                                               section)4     section4
 
   Notes:
   1.    Sign is to be affixed to dwelling door or wall adjacent thereto.
   2.    Sign is to be located 12 feet back from the property line or 1/2 the
front yard depth, whichever is less.
   3.    Sign is to be located 12 feet back from the property line or 1/2 the
front yard depth, whichever is less.
   4.    PU, C and M: 1 freestanding sign is permitted for each lot frontage on
a street or right of way so long as a minimum distance of 100 feet is
maintained between the freestanding signs on said lot.
      2.   Figure 1:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1664.gif]
 
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2, 1 mile per hour = 1.609
km/hr.
PERMITTED HEIGHT AND AREA FOR FREESTANDING SIGNS IN ZONING DISTRICTS PU PUBLIC
USE, C COMMERCIAL AND M MANUFACTURING WHERE VEHICULAR SPEED SUBJECT TO POSTED
LIMITS IS 35 MILES PER HOUR AND UNDER.
 
Lot Frontage On A Public Maximum Allowable        Maximum Sign Area Pending Lot
Street                   Freestanding Sign Height Frontage
0' up to 150'0"          15'0"                    150 sq. ft.
150'0" and over          20'0"                    200 sq. ft.
 
      3.   Figure 2:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1666.gif]
 
SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2, 1 mile per hour = 1.609 km/
hr.
PERMITTED HEIGHT AND AREA FOR FREESTANDING SIGNS IN ZONING DISTRICTS PU PUBLIC
USE, C COMMERCIAL AND M MANUFACTURING WHERE VEHICULAR SPEED SUBJECT TO POSTED
LIMITS IS OVER 35 MILES PER HOUR AND UNDER 55 MILES PER HOUR.
 
Lot Frontage On A Public Maximum Allowable        Maximum Sign Area Pending Lot
Street                   Freestanding Sign Height Frontage
0' to 87'6"              15'0"                    150 sq. ft.
87'6" to 150'0"          20'0"                    225 sq. ft.
150'0" and over          30'0"                    300 sq. ft.
 
      4.   Figure 3:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1668.gif]
 
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm, 1 square foot = 0.0929 m2, 1 mile per hour = 1.609
km/hr.
PERMITTED HEIGHT AND AREA FOR SIGNS IN ZONING DISTRICTS PU PUBLIC USE, C
COMMERCIAL AND M MANUFACTURING WHERE VEHICULAR SPEED SUBJECT TO POSTED LIMITS
IS 55 MILES PER HOUR AND ABOVE.
 
Lot Frontage On A Public Maximum Allowable        Maximum Sign Area Pending Lot
Street                   Freestanding Sign Height Frontage
0' to 22'6"              15'0"                    120 sq. ft.
22'6" to 75'-0"          25'0"                    225 sq. ft.
75'0" to 127'6"          35'0"                    330 sq. ft.
127'6" and over          50'0"                    450 sq. ft.
 
   C.   Requirements For Specific Sign Types:
      1.   Canopy And Marquee Signs:
         a.   The permanently affixed copy area of canopy or marquee signs
shall not exceed an area equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the face area of
the canopy, marquee or architectural projection upon which such sign is affixed
or applied.
         b.   Graphic striping, patterns or color bands on the face of a
building, canopy, marquee or architectural projection shall not be included in
the computation of sign copy area.
      2.   Awning Signs:
         a.   The copy area of awning signs shall not exceed an area equal to
twenty five percent (25%) of the background area of the awning or awning
surface to which such a sign is affixed or applied, or the permitted area for
wall or fascia signs, whichever is less.
         b.   Neither the background color of an awning, nor any graphic
treatment or embellishment thereto such as striping, patterns or valances,
shall be included in the computation of sign copy area.
      3.   Projecting Signs:
         a.   Projecting signs shall be permitted in lieu of freestanding
signage on any street frontage limited to one sign per occupancy along any
street frontage with public entrance to such occupancy, and shall be limited in
height and area as set forth in this section.
         b.   No such sign shall extend vertically above the highest point of
the building upon which it is mounted.
         c.   Such signs shall not extend over a public sidewalk or right of
way.
      4.   Under Canopy Signs: Under canopy signs shall maintain a clear
vertical distance above any sidewalk or pedestrianway a minimum of eight feet
(8').
      5.   Roof Signs:
         a.   Roof signs shall be permitted only in PU Public Use, C commercial
and M manufacturing zoning districts.
         b.   Such signs shall be limited to a height above the ground and a
sign area no more than the height and area provided in figures 1, 2 and 3 of
this section, for freestanding signs.
         c.   The sign area for roof signs shall be assessed against the
aggregate permitted area for wall signs on the elevation of the building most
closely parallel to the face of the sign.
      6.   Menu Boards: One menu board shall be allowed per site and not
counted as a freestanding sign for bulk allowances. Menu board signs shall not
be permitted to exceed seventy five (75) square feet (4.6 m2).
      7.   Outdoor Advertising Signs:
         a.   The maximum sign height and area shall be determined by the
specific zoning district and the posted street miles per hour. These are
determined by tables 1 and 2 and figures 1, 2 and 3 of this section.
         b.   Freestanding signs shall be a minimum of one thousand feet
(1,000') from any other freestanding off premises sign located on the same side
of a two-way street, and five hundred feet (500') from any other freestanding
off premises sign on the opposite side of a two-way street. The setback shall
be measured from a perpendicular line across the street from the existing
freestanding sign.
         c.   Freestanding signs shall be a minimum of one thousand feet
(1,000') from any other freestanding off premises sign located on either side
of a one-way street. The setback shall be measured from a perpendicular line
across the street from the existing freestanding sign.
         d.   Freestanding signs shall be located a minimum of two hundred feet
(200') from any residential zoning district.
         e.   Freestanding signs shall be located a minimum of one hundred feet
(100') from any other freestanding on premises sign located on a lot.
         f.   Freestanding signs may be located within the PU Public Use, C
commercial and M manufacturing zoning districts; however signs shall count
toward the allowed number of freestanding signs for a site, and not be allowed
as additional signs.
         g.   Freestanding signs shall be constructed with a trim not to exceed
two inches (2") in width.
         h.   Freestanding signs with backs visible from a public right of way
shall be improved with decorative panels to cover the structural support of the
sign area.
      8.   Temporary Signs: A building permit is required for all temporary
signs. The square footage for temporary signs shall be determined as follows:
         a.   Such signs shall be limited to one sign per street front.
         b.   Such signs may be displayed for not more than eighty-four (84)
days in any calendar year. The signs shall be erected no more than five (5)
days prior to the event or grand opening, and shall be removed not more than
one day after the event or grand opening.
         c.   The total area of all such signs shall not exceed one and one-
half (1.5) square feet for each linear foot of lot frontage square feet in any
public use, business, commercial or industrial district.
         d.   Residential properties shall be limited to one hundred (100)
square feet of signage.
         e.   See title 10, chapter 3 of the village code for further
information of building permits and fees.
      9.   Development And Construction Signs: Signs temporarily erected during
construction to inform the public of the developer, contractors, architects,
engineers, the nature of the project or anticipated completion dates, shall be
permitted in all zoning districts, subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Such signs on a single residential lot shall be limited to one
sign, not greater than six feet (6') in height and six (6) square feet in area.
         b.   Such signs for a residential subdivision or multiple residential
lots shall be limited to one sign at each entrance to the subdivision or on one
of the lots to be built upon, and shall be no greater than ten feet (10') in
height and thirty two (32) square feet in area.
         c.   Such signs for nonresidential uses in residential districts shall
be limited to one sign, and shall be no greater than ten feet (10') in height
and thirty two (32) square feet in area.
         d.   Such signs for public use, commercial or industrial projects
shall be limited to one sign per street front, not to exceed ten feet (10') in
height and thirty two (32) square feet for projects on parcels five (5) acres
(20,235 m2) or less in size, and not to exceed ten feet (10') in height and one
hundred (100) square feet for projects on parcels larger than five (5) acres
(20,235 m2).
         e.   Development and construction signs may not be displayed until
after the issuance of construction permits by the building official, and must
be removed not later than twenty four (24) hours following issuance of an
occupancy permit for all or any portion of the project. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-
2009; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. 2022-65, 11-21-2022)
11-10-10: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Village Code: All signs shall comply with the
appropriate detailed provisions of this chapter and of the building code and
electrical code as currently adopted by the village, relating to design,
structural members and connections. See title 10, chapter 1 of the village code
for further information. Any sign exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in
area or fifteen feet (15') in overall height shall be supplied with
construction documents sealed by a licensed Illinois structural engineer.
   B.   Freestanding Signs And Materials: All freestanding sign structures or
poles shall be self-supporting structures erected on and permanently attached
to concrete foundations. Such structures or poles shall be fabricated only from
painted steel or such other materials as permitted by the building code adopted
by the village.
   C.   Strength Of Parapet Wall: A parapet wall must have sufficient strength
to support any sign which is attached thereto.
   D.   Supports And Braces: Metal supports or braces shall be adequate for
wind loadings. Wire or cable supports shall have a safety factor of 4. All
metal, wire cable supports and braces and all bolts used to attach a sign to a
bracket or to brackets and signs to the supporting building or structure shall
be galvanized or an equivalent material.
   E.   Wind Loads: All signs shall be designed and constructed in conformity
with the provisions for materials, loads and stresses of the building code as
currently adopted by the village. The effect of special local wind pressures
shall be thoroughly considered in the design, but in no case shall the wind
load be assumed less than thirty (30) pounds per square foot of net exposed
area for roof signs.
   F.   Sign Anchoring: Signs shall be anchored to prevent any lateral movement
that would cause wear on supporting members or connectors.
   G.   Maintenance And Repair: Every sign including, but not limited to, those
for which a permit is required shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and
good structural material condition at all times, including the replacement of
defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning, and other acts required for
the maintenance of said sign. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
   H.   Electrical Requirements:
      1.   All illuminated signs shall have a disconnecting switch located in
accordance with the electrical code as adopted by the village. See title 10,
chapter 1 of the village code for further information. All illuminated elements
of any sign shall always be maintained in satisfactory working condition, and
shall be immediately repaired or replaced as needed. Signs that are only
partially illuminated shall meet all electrical requirements for that portion
directly illuminated. Electrical wiring for illuminated signs shall be
installed by a licensed electrical contractor. Sign contractors shall be
permitted to make electrical connections from illuminated signs to approved
electrical wiring located within six feet (6') of signs or sign structures;
provided, that such connections are made in accordance with the electrical
code. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      2.   When a sign is illuminated either from an external source or by an
internal source of light, direct rays of light shall not beam to or reflect
upon any part of an existing residential building, nor into a residence zoned
district, nor into a public street. A sign that is in the direct line of vision
of any motorist with a traffic signal light shall not have red, green, yellow,
or amber illumination when such illumination is likely to be confused with such
signal.
      3.   All gas discharge tubing systems (neon) shall be Underwriters
Laboratories (UL) listed or an approved equal. Systems shall be designed and
installed per article 600 of the national electrical code. Complete system
drawings are to include, but are not limited to, the following: complete tubing
design layout and wiring circuits, transformer size(s) and secondary voltage
(s). Maximum open circuit voltage shall be seven thousand five hundred (7,500)
volts to ground. Transformers above seven thousand five hundred (7,500) volts
shall be of balanced design and midpoint wired and enclosed in metallic
raceways. All secondary components shall be rated for the circuit voltage
listed on the submitted data. All wiring and electrical terminations shall be
protected from physical contact if less than eight feet (8') above the finished
floor. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-10-11: VARIANCES:
Unless specifically prohibited herein, variances of this chapter may be
permitted as provided by the provisions of this chapter or by grant of a
variance by the board of trustees per the requirements and procedures of
section
11-5-5 of this title. (Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-10-12: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   In any instance where signs have been abandoned and/or where the
specific event (such as the sale of real estate, the official determination of
a political election, the expiration of a holiday) has transpired and the sign
or signs in question have not been removed per the requirements established in
this chapter, the administrating official, upon five (5) days' prior written
notice to the party maintaining the sign in violation of this chapter, may
enter the property to remove the sign or signs in violation hereof.
   B.   Whenever it shall appear to the administrating official, other than in
the instances set forth in subsection A of this section, that any sign has been
constructed, erected, or is being maintained in violation of the regulations of
the village, said official shall issue a notice in writing to the owner or
lessee of the sign or to the owner or lessee of the premises upon which the
sign is located. Such notice in writing shall inform the recipient(s) of the
violation(s) depicted and shall direct said party to make such alteration,
repair, or removal as is necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
Fourteen (14) days from the date of the notice shall be deemed reasonable time,
except in instances of mechanical or structural repair. Upon failure of the
notice to comply with terms of the violation(s) so noticed within said time
period, the administrating official is authorized to remove, alter, or
appropriately repair the sign(s) in question for the benefit of the health,
welfare, and safety of the general public. All expenses incident thereto shall
be charged to said notice and subject to collection by court action by the
village.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided, the administrator may remove or cause to
be removed immediately any sign(s) without service of the appropriate notice
if, in the administrating official's opinion, the condition of the sign(s) is
such as to present an immediate threat to the safety of the general public.
(Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
11-10-13: PENALTIES:
The penalties of section
11-5-9 of this title are hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof.
(Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 11
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purpose And Intent
11-11-2: General Provisions
11-11-3: Off Street Parking
11-11-4: Off Street Loading
11-11-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The following regulations are established to increase safety and lessen
congestion in the village streets, to prevent the deficiency of motor vehicle
parking spaces associated with the development of land and increased motor
vehicle usage, to set standards for the required off street parking and
loading, and to eliminate the on street storage of motor vehicles. In
connection with any building hereafter erected or substantially altered or
enlarged, or any parking lot hereafter installed, there shall be off street
parking and loading areas provided that meet all of the minimum requirements of
this chapter. If the business operation or use requires more spaces than the
minimum required by this chapter for such business operation or use, then
additional spaces shall be required as determined by the zoning administrator,
or in the event that office is vacant, by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2009-
114, 10-5-2009)
11-11-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permissive Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of off street parking
and loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings;
provided, that there is adherence to all regulations herein governing the
location, design, and operation of such facilities.
   B.   Damage Or Destruction: When any building, structure, or use is restored
and continued in operation after being damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse,
explosion or other cause to the extent that the cost of restoration exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of its fair market value at the time of such damage or
destruction, there shall be provided the off street parking and loading
facilities required by this title. When any building, structure or use which is
in existence on the effective date hereof is restored and continued in
operation after being damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion, or
other cause to the extent that the cost of restoration does not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of its fair market value at the time of such damage or
destruction, there shall be required only off street parking and loading
facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such damage or
destruction. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
off street parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this
title.
   C.   Existing Uses: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
erected prior to the effective date hereof shall hereafter be changed to a new
use, additional off street parking or loading facilities shall be required for
such uses only in the event the floor area, occupancy loads, number of dwelling
units, or some other factor affecting off street parking requirements is
increased and then only to the extent required by the additional floor area,
seating capacity, number of dwelling units, or other factor affecting the
parking requirements. (Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009)
11-11-3: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Use: Required off street parking spaces accessory to uses listed in
this title shall be solely for the parking of passenger motor vehicles of
occupants, patrons, visitors, or employees or motor vehicles used in a
permitted home occupation. Each required space shall be kept available at all
times for parking of one motor vehicle.
   B.   Exemptions: When the application of the off street parking regulations
specified hereinafter results in a requirement of not more than three (3)
parking spaces for any commercial or business use, such parking spaces need not
be provided. However, where two (2) or more uses are located on a single lot,
only one of these uses shall be eligible for the above exemption. In no
instances shall this exemption apply to dwelling units.
   C.   Computation:
      1.   When computation of the required number of off street parking spaces
results in a requirement of a fractional space, a fraction of less than one-
half (1/2) shall be disregarded and a fraction of one-half (1/2) or more shall
counted as one space.
      2.   When computation of the required number of off street parking spaces
is based upon the number of employees, the word "employed" shall refer to the
maximum number of employees on duty at any one time.
   D.   Collective Provision: Two (2) or more buildings or uses may
collectively provide the required off street parking, in which case, the number
of parking spaces provided shall not be less than the sum of the separate
requirements for each such building or use.
   E.   Location:
      1.   In the R1 and R2 districts, no off street parking shall be permitted
in the front yard except on approved driveways of one- and two-family
dwellings. On driveways leading to only one legal off street parking space, the
parking of no more than two (2) cars side by side is allowed only under the
following conditions:
         a.   The driveway must be paved; and
         b.   The width of the driveway approach and the driveway at the
sidewalk must be a minimum of sixteen feet (16'). The required width shall be
maintained to a sufficient length to allow parking of cars on private property.
Existing driveways less than sixteen feet (16') wide may be flared to the
required width and length without widening the driveway approach only if an
approved driveway and/or culvert permit is issued by the village for said
improvements. See title 8, chapter 2 of the village code for further
information.
      2.   Parking spaces required for all other uses shall be located on the
same lot or an adjoining lot; provided, however, that where ten (10) or more
parking spaces are required:
         a.   Such parking spaces may be provided on a lot located not more
than five hundred feet (500') from the lot requiring said parking. Such lot
shall be owned by the owner of the use requiring the parking; and
         b.   No parking spaces permitted by subsection E2a of this section
shall be located in a residence district.
      3.   All new and approved accessory off street parking spaces and
driveways shall be located at least three feet (3') from any side lot line. All
legal nonconforming driveways may be reconstructed at their existing location.
   F.   Design And Construction Standards:
      1.   Surfacing Of Parking Lots: All areas designed to accommodate four
(4) or more off street parking spaces shall be surfaced with an all weather,
dust free material.
      2.   Surfacing Of Driveways: All driveway entrances from a public street
to an off street parking lot, as applied herein, shall be surfaced, at a
minimum, with at least fifteen feet (15') of all weather, dust free material,
measured from the edge of the pavement of the public street. See title 8,
chapter 3 of the village code for further information.
      3.   Drainage:
         a.   All parking lots shall be sloped and/or drained so as to prevent
surface water from such lots running onto adjoining property in unreasonable
volumes.
         b.   All parking lots shall dispose of surface water in accordance
with the village stormwater management ordinance. See title 10, chapter 6 of
the village code.
      4.   Size And Access: Each required parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle, a driveway, a driving area, or a public way of such width and
design as to provide safe and efficient means of vehicular access and egress to
such parking space at all times. The dimensions of such parking space or means
of access shall not be less than shown in section
11-12-1, figure 1, of this title.
      5.   Wheel Stops: All open off street parking areas that have parking
spaces abutting a property line or building or some other structure shall be
required to have wheel stops of masonry, steel, heavy timber, or other material
sufficient to prevent the protrusion of vehicles over property lines or into
buildings, fences or screens. Where B-6.18 curb and gutter, as detailed in
Illinois department of transportation highway standards, standard A-7.5, or
sidewalk of similar geometry and function is utilized as the wheel stop, the
gross depth of the parking stall may be reduced by two feet (2'), as measured
from the back of the curb. This reduction may only be utilized when there is an
additional two feet (2') beyond the curb to allow for the overhang of the
vehicle.
      6.   Lighting: All off street parking areas regulated by this title shall
have operational lighting fixtures directed away from residences in such a way
as not to create a nuisance.
   G.   Storage Of Camping And Recreational Equipment: Any owner of camping and
recreational equipment or a domestic utility trailer may park or store such
camping and recreational equipment or utility trailer in a residence district
subject to the following conditions:
      1.   At no time shall such parked or stored equipment be occupied or used
for dining, sleeping or housekeeping purposes while parked or stored in a
residence district except for a period of not to exceed fourteen (14) days in
one calendar year; provided however, that such mobile home, travel trailer,
pickup coach, motor home or camping trailer may be used only for sleeping
purposes during such fourteen (14) day period.
      2.   If the major recreational equipment is a self-propelled vehicle, not
stored on a trailer (such as a motor home), it must be parked on a hard
surface, whether it is parked to the front or rear of the front line of the
principal structure on the property. Camping trailers, domestic utility
trailers, boats on trailers, and other items of major recreational equipment
stored on trailers do not need to be on a hard surface if such major
recreational equipment is stored or parked to the rear of the front building
line of the principal structure on the property.
      3.   If the recreational equipment is parked or stored outside of a
garage, it shall be parked or stored to the rear of the front building line of
the principal structure on the lot. However, such camping and recreational
equipment may be parked anywhere on the premises for loading or unloading
purposes for a period not to exceed one week per episode. For the purposes of
this subsection G3, an "episode" shall mean either preparing for or returning
from a location other than the residential property at which the purpose of the
existence of recreational equipment is used or intended. If the recreational
equipment is parked on the front of the building line of the principal
structure on the property, the equipment must be on a hard surface as defined
in subsection F2 of this section.
      4.   Recreational equipment or a domestic utility trailer must be parked
a minimum of three feet (3') from a side or rear yard lot line. (Ord. 2009-114,
10-5-2009)
   H.   Provisions For Disabled Accessibility: The requirements for parking
stalls and ramps accessible to persons with disabilities shall be as enumerated
in the Illinois accessibility code as adopted by the village. See section
10-1-14 of the village code for further information.
   I.   Minimum Number Of Off Street Parking Spaces Required: The following are
the minimum off street parking requirements for the land use categories
authorized by chapter 7 of this title, subject to the exemptions provided in
subsection B of this section:
Type Of Use  Number Of Parking Spaces
                                                                                   Number Of
Type Of Use                                                                        Parking
                                                                                   Spaces
Basic industry and utility uses:                                                   
                                                                                   1 per every
    Agriculture, mining, quarrying, mineral extraction, nonmetallic minerals  600 square
mineral products manufacturing                                                     feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Nucleonics, laboratories, communications facilities                       300 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
                                                                                   1,200 square
    Utilities                                                                 feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area,
                                                                                   but not less
                                                                                   than 2
                                                                                   1 per every
Educational services                                                              400 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
Institutional uses:                                                                
                                                                                   1 per every
    Care of the aged                                                          400 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
   Care of the disabled, sick, injured                                         250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Care of the physically restrained                                         1,500 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Care of the young                                                         250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
Manufacturing uses                                                                600 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
Public assembly uses:                                                              
    Amusement and recreation uses:                                             
                                                                                   1/4 of the
                                                                                   maximum
                                                                                   occupancy
                                                                                   load or 1
                                                                                   space for
       Amphitheater, arena, assembly hall, armory, auditorium, civic cente every 200
                                                                                   square feet
                                                                                   of gross
                                                                                   floor area,
                                                                                   whichever is
                                                                                   greater
       Archery range, rifle range, shooting range                          2 per target
                                                                                   area
                                                                                   20 per court
                                                                                   or field or 1
       Athletic courts, athletic fields, stadiums                          for every 4
                                                                                   seats,
                                                                                   whichever is
                                                                                   greater
       Bowling establishments                                              5 per lane
                                                                                   75 for 9 hole
       Golf courses, not including miniature golf                          courses; 150
                                                                                   for 18 hole
                                                                                   courses
                                                                                   1 per 100
       Outdoor amusement park                                              square feet
                                                                                   of activity
                                                                                   area
                                                                                   1/4 of the
                                                                                   maximum
                                                                                   occupancy
                                                                                   load or 1
                                                                                   space for
       Other amusement and recreation uses                                 every 200
                                                                                   square feet
                                                                                   of gross
                                                                                   floor area,
                                                                                   whichever is
                                                                                   greater
                                                                                   1 per every
    Churches and religious facilities                                         200 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Clubs                                                                     200 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
    Eating, drinking establishments:                                           
                                                                                   1 per every
                                                                                   50 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area,
       Drinking establishments (taverns) and drive-in refreshment stands   plus 1 per
                                                                                   every 50
                                                                                   square feet
                                                                                   of outdoor
                                                                                   seating area
                                                                                   1 per every
                                                                                   100 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area,
       Other eating establishments                                         plus 1 per
                                                                                   every 100
                                                                                   square feet
                                                                                   of outdoor
                                                                                   seating area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Funeral parlors and mortuaries                                            100 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Libraries, museums, government uses                                       200 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Passenger terminals, stations                                             200 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Theaters, studios                                                         160 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
Residential uses:                                                                  
    Manufactured homes and mobile homes                                       2 per
                                                                                   dwelling unit
    Multiple-family dwellings                                                 2 per
                                                                                   dwelling unit
    One- and two-family dwellings                                             1 per
                                                                                   dwelling unit
                                                                                   1 per every
    Rooming houses, boarding houses, tourist houses                           400 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1.25 per
                                                                                   guestroom,
                                                                                   plus 1.2 per
                                                                                   every 100
                                                                                   square feet
                                                                                   of gross
    Transient lodging                                                         floor area of
                                                                                   convention
                                                                                   facility or
                                                                                   other public
                                                                                   assembly use
                                                                                   (if
                                                                                   applicable)
Storage uses:                                                                      
                                                                                   1 per every
    Buildings used by 1 user                                                  2,400 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Compartmentalized or multi- occupied buildings                            1,200 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 for each 10
                                                                                   storage
                                                                                   cubicles,
                                                                                   equally
                                                                                   distributed
                                                                                   throughout
                                                                                   the storage
                                                                                   area, plus 2
                                                                                   for the
                                                                                   miniwarehouse
                                                                                   manager's
    Miniwarehouses                                                            office (if
                                                                                   such office
                                                                                   is provided),
                                                                                   plus 1 for
                                                                                   every 25
                                                                                   cubicles to
                                                                                   be located
                                                                                   near the
                                                                                   manager's
                                                                                   office for
                                                                                   the use of
                                                                                   prospective
                                                                                   clients
Store and office uses:                                                             
                                                                                   1 per every
    Food, beverage retail sales                                               250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    General merchandise stores                                                250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Household goods retail sales                                              250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Motor vehicle, marine, aircraft retail sales, service                     250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per 200
                                                                                   square feet
                                                                                   of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   for the first
                                                                                   2,000 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   (with a
                                                                                   minimum of 3
    Offices                                                                   spaces), plus
                                                                                   1 for each
                                                                                   additional
                                                                                   300 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   after the
                                                                                   first 2,000
                                                                                   square feet
                                                                                   of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Professional supplies and services                                        250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Recreation, hobby, garden supply retail sales                             250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Specialty shops                                                           250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
    Textiles, apparel retail sales                                            250 square
                                                                                   feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area
                                                                                   1 per every
                                                                                   2,400 square
Other uses:                                                                       feet of gross
                                                                                   floor area,
                                                                                   but not less
                                                                                   than 2
 
(Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
11-11-4: OFF STREET LOADING:
   A.   Location: All required loading berths shall be off street and shall be
located on the same lot as the building to be served. No permitted or required
loading berth shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of the nearest
point of intersection of any two (2) street right of way lines, nor shall it be
located in a required front or side yard.
   B.   Size: Unless otherwise specified in this title or amendment hereto, a
required loading berth shall be at least ten feet (10') in width by at least
twenty five feet (25') in length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and
shall have vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
   C.   Access: Each required loading berth shall be served by appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic movements as determined by the administrating official.
   D.   Surfacing: See subsection
11-11-3F of this chapter.
   E.   Repair And Service: No storage of any kind, nor motor vehicle repair
work or service of any kind, shall be permitted within any required loading
berth.
   F.   Space Allocated: Space allocated to be required loading berth shall not
be used to satisfy any requirement of this title for off street parking spaces.
   G.   Minimum Off Street Loading Requirements:
 
Square Feet Of Gross Floor Area                    Minimum Number Of Spaces
Less than 10,000                                None
10,000 to 24,999                                1
25,000 to 39,999                                2
40,000 to 99,999                                3
100,000 to 250,000                              4
For each additional 200,000 or fraction thereof 1
over 250,000
 
(Ord. 2009-114, 10-5-2009)
CHAPTER 12
MISCELLANEOUS FIGURES
SECTION:
11-12-1: Figures
11-12-1: FIGURES:
The following drawings are made a part of this title:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1670.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1672.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1674.gif]
 
(Ord. 2009-36, 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 13
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM
SECTION:
11-13-1: Short Title
11-13-2: Purpose And Intent
11-13-3: Applicability
11-13-4: Definitions
11-13-5: General Provisions
11-13-6: Test Wind Towers/WECS
11-13-7: Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS), Small
11-13-8: Wind Energy Conversion Systems, Other Than Small
11-13-9: Application Review Process
11-13-10: Restoration Requirements
11-13-11: Enforcement And Violations
11-13-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM ORDINANCE of
the village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-13-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The village of Heyworth, county of McLean, Illinois, hereby establishes
this wind energy conversion systems ordinance pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-26 of the Illinois municipal code to institute regulations
concerning wind energy conversion systems ("WECS"), within its corporate and
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village of Heyworth, Illinois.
   B.   The purpose of said regulations is to provide a uniform and
comprehensive set of standards for the installation of wind energy conversion
systems designed for both commercial and noncommercial energy production and to
promote the effective and efficient use of the village of Heyworth's wind
energy resources through wind energy conversion systems ("WECS"). This
includes, but is not limited to, regulations to address the potential problems
that may be caused by WECS such as the protection of property values of
adjoining or nearby property owners, significant noise, aesthetic impacts,
drainage problems, harm to farmlands, risk to various animal populations, and
electromagnetic interference with various types of communication.
   C.   The intent of these regulations is to protect the public health,
safety, and community welfare while allowing development of wind energy
resources for both commercial and noncommercial purposes within the
jurisdiction of the village of Heyworth. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-13-3: APPLICABILITY:
The substantive and procedural requirements of this section shall apply to all
wind energy facilities that are governed by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
13-26 and which are proposed, operated, modified, or constructed after the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-13-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section, the definitions below apply to the terms used
within this chapter and all the language contained within this chapter:
END USER: Any owner, operator, or agent of the designated wind energy
conversion facility who has been appointed by the owner and has been designated
by such owner to act on behalf of such person/entity, to give consent, and bind
them into agreements.
FAA: The federal aviation administration.
OPERATOR: The entity responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance
of the WECS, including any third party subcontractors.
OVERSPEED CONTROL: A mechanism used to limit the speed of blade rotation to
below the design limits of the WECS.
OWNER: The entity or entities with an equity interest in the WECS(s), including
their respective successors and assigns. Owner does not mean: a) the property
owner from whom land is leased for locating the WECS (unless the property owner
has an equity interest in the WECS); or b) any person holding a security
interest in the WECS(s) solely to secure an extension of credit, or a person
foreclosing on such security interest provided that after foreclosure, such
person seeks to sell the WECS(s) at the earliest practicable date.
TEMPORARY WIND MEASUREMENT TOWER: A tower used for the measurement of
meteorological data such as temperature, wind speed, and wind direction
installed prior to construction of a WECS for wind site assessment which
remains in place for a limited period of time. The data provided allows the
developer to determine the economic viability of the project as well as to
select the optimal type of turbine for the location.
TEST WIND TOWER: See definition of Temporary Wind Measurement Tower.
TOTAL HEIGHT: Height of WECS measured from ground elevation to top of tip of
blade in vertical position at its highest point.
TOWER: Support structure, including guyed, monopole, and lattice types, upon
which wind turbine or other mechanical device is mounted.
VILLAGE: The village of Heyworth as a municipality and its powers endowed by
the state of Illinois to regulate within its boundaries.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), LARGE: All necessary devices that
together convert wind into electricity, and those more commonly referred to as
wind turbines and their respective parts, which are primarily used for
generating power to be sold to another and not including power only for
generator and related components, electrical components, transformer, and
electrical cabling.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), SMALL: A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a single wind turbine, single tower, and associated control or
conversion electronics which has a rated capacity of greater than ten (10)
kilowatts but not more than one hundred fifty (150) kilowatts and a total
height of greater than fifty feet (50') but not more than one hundred twenty
five feet (125') and that generates power for an individual property for the
purpose of reducing on site consumption of utility power.
WIND ENERGY FACILITY: Any WECS or wind measurement tower, including all related
infrastructure, electrical lines and substations, access roads and accessory
structures that are under common ownership or operating control. (Ord. 2013-11,
3-21-2013)
11-13-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No wind energy facility, whether commercial/
noncommercial, large/small, or a test wind tower, shall be constructed,
reconstructed, altered or modified in the jurisdiction of the village unless a
wind energy facilities special use permit is applied for on a form approved by
the village and issued by the village and such facility is in strict compliance
with this chapter.
      1.   Note: If other permits, variances, or other land use authorizations
have been specifically authorized or provided by the village, and/or if a WECS
special use permit has been issued, and all such permits, variances or other
land use authorizations have been built and is/are operating under such
authorizations, such existing use(s) may be continued under the terms of such
authorization(s) (which includes temporary wind measurement towers) without
requiring a revised permit, so long as the use is not changed, extended,
enlarged or structurally altered.
   B.   Applications For Small And Large Wind Energy Facilities:
      1.   An application for a special use permit for small and large wind
energy facilities at minimum shall include the following:
         a.   Name, address, and telephone number(s) of the applicant and
landowner;
         b.   Any agreements between landowner and facility owner, if any;
         c.   Address or other property identification of each proposed
facility including tax map number, existing use of parcel, acreage of parcel,
and zoning designation;
         d.   A description of the facility and project including:
            (1)   The number of WECS;
            (2)   Data pertaining to each tower's safety and stability
including safety results from test facilities and certification from the
turbine manufacturer that the turbine is manufactured to operate at safe
speeds; and
            (3)   For each WECS the make, model, a picture of the WECS, and
manufacturing specifications including noise decibel data and maximum rated
capacity;
         e.   Vertical drawing of all WECS showing total height, turbine
dimensions, tower and turbine colors, ladders, distance between the ground and
the lowest point of any blade, and the location of climbing pegs and access
doors. One drawing may be submitted for each WECS of the same type and total
height;
         f.   A plot plan prepared by a licensed surveyor or engineer drawn in
sufficient detail to clearly show the following:
            (1)   Property lines, physical dimensions of the site, and the
location, dimensions and types of existing structures and uses on the site;
            (2)   Public roads and access roads;
            (3)   Adjoining properties within two thousand feet (2,000') of the
site including zoning designations, residences, schools, churches, hospitals,
and libraries;
            (4)   The proposed location, elevation, and total height of each
WECS;
            (5)   Above and below ground utility lines within a radius of 1.5
times the total height of the WECS;
            (6)   Setback lines; and
            (7)   All other proposed facilities on the site including
transformers, electrical lines, substations, storage or maintenance units,
ancillary equipment or structures, transmission lines, and fencing.
Note: This subsection B1 applies generally to all applications for WECS. Please
see the "wind energy conversion system, small", or "wind energy conversion
system, other than small" sections below for additional requirements regarding
approval for WECS facilities. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-13-6: TEST WIND TOWERS/WECS:
   A.   All test wind towers must be dismantled within three (3) years of
installation. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-13-7: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), SMALL:
   A.   In addition to the information and requirements hereinbefore specified,
a small wind energy system may be permitted provided that a site plan is
submitted to the village that must contain and is in compliance with the
additional following requirements:
      1.   Setbacks: All parts of the structure of a small wind energy
conversion system including the tower, base, footings, and turbine, but
excluding guy cables and their anchors, shall be set back no less than 1.1
times the height of the renewable energy system from the end user's property
line and all adjacent property lines, road right of way, railroad right of way,
and right of way for overhead electrical transmission or distribution lines
unless a variance is authorized by the village board.
      2.   Location: Small wind power generation facilities or small WECS must
conform to the following requirements:
         a.   No building or tower that is part of a wind power generation
facility or WECS shall encroach onto any recorded easement prohibiting the
encroachment unless the grantees of the easement give their approval to such in
writing and said approval is provided to the village;
         b.   No facility shall encroach onto an existing septic field;
         c.   Any wind power generation or WECS facility located in a special
flood hazard area or wetland shall comply with the requirements of the FP
floodplain overlay district and Illinois department of natural resources;
         d.   A tower that is part of a wind power generation facility shall
require engineering by a licensed engineer; and
         e.   A wind power generation facility may be located on the same lot
as one or more structures or uses.
      3.   Noise: The small WECS shall not exceed a noise level of sixty (60)
decibels as measured at the closest property line. This noise level may be
exceeded only during short term events such as utility outages and/or severe
windstorms.
      4.   Building Permit Applications: In addition to the special use permit
application hereinbefore specified, a building permit application of the
village must be completed and approved. The building permit must include
standard drawings of the system structure, including the tower, base, footings,
and guy cables and certified by a licensed engineer. This certification may be
supplied by the manufacturer, developer, or owner on behalf of the party moving
to construct the wind energy conversion system.
         a.   Notifications Regarding Aircraft: Small WECS shall comply with
all applicable regulations of the FAA, including any necessary approvals for
installations closer than two (2) miles to an airport. The applicant has the
responsibility of determining the applicable FAA regulations and securing the
necessary approvals. If the system is proposed to be sited in an agricultural
area that may have aircraft operating at low altitudes, the applicant shall
notify all such crop dusting businesses no later than five (5) business days
prior to submitting a building permit application. Copies of letters of such
approvals must be attached with the building permit application. Orange safety
balls shall be installed on each side of towers where guywires are used for
towers over eighty feet (80') in height.
         b.   Local Utility Company Notification: If a small WECS is intended
to be connected to the electricity grid, the applicant shall notify the
electric utility service provider that serves the proposed site of his intent
to install an interconnected customer owned electricity generator no later than
five (5) business days prior to submitting a building permit application.
Copies of letters of approval from the local utility company must be attached
to the building permit application.
      5.   Minimum Distances: The distance between any protruding blades
utilized on a small WECS and the ground shall be a minimum of fifteen feet
(15') as measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades.
      6.   Radio And Television Signals: The small WECS shall not cause any
radio, television, microwave, or navigation interference. If a signal
disturbance problem is identified, the applicant shall correct the problem
within ninety (90) days of being notified of the problem.
      7.   Appearance: The small WECS shall maintain a galvanized neutral
finish or be painted to conform the system color to the surrounding environment
to minimize adverse visual effects. No small WECS shall have any signage,
writing, pictures, or decorations placed on it at any time other than warning,
equipment, and ownership information. No small WECS shall have any flags,
streamers, banners, and other decorative items that extend from any part of the
system placed on it at any time.
      8.   Lighting: The small WECS must comply with all lighting requirements
as specified by the FAA, and, whenever possible, be at the lowest intensity
allowed using red lights at night. If more than one lighting alternative is
available, the alternative that causes the least visual disturbance must be
used.
      9.   Equipment: Unless located underground, any electrical equipment
associated with a wind energy system shall be located under the sweep area of a
blade assembly unless a variance is approved by the village board.
      10.   Electrical Wires: All electrical wires associated with a wind
energy system, other than wires necessary to connect the wind turbine to its
base and to overhead collection lines, shall be located underground unless a
variance is approved by the village board. Transmission lines and transmission
line poles shall not be located on road rights of way except as necessary to
cross over a road.
      11.   Fencing: The tower shall be enclosed with a fence of at least six
feet (6') in height or the base of the tower shall not be climbable for a
distance of eight feet (8') measured from the ground.
      12.   Required Safety Features: The small WECS shall have an automatic
overspeed control to render the system inoperable when winds are blowing in
excess of the speeds for which the system is designed and a manually operable
method to render the system inoperable in the event of a structural or
mechanical failure of any part of the system.
      13.   Tower Height: Tower height shall be measured from the height above
grade to the highest point of the arc of the blades and shall be limited per
the size of the lot on which the tower is constructed as follows:
 
0.99 or less acres 50' x 50'
1 to 1.99 acres    65' x 65'
2 to 4.99 acres    80' x 80'
5 or more acres    150' x 80'
 
      14.   Signal Interference: The owner of a WECS must take such reasonable
steps as are necessary to prevent, eliminate, or mitigate any interference with
cellular, radio or television signals caused by the WECS.
      15.   Liability Insurance: Prior to issuance of a building permit, the
applicant shall provide the village with proof of a general liability insurance
policy at a level to be determined by the village board in consultation with
the village's insurer, to cover damage or injury that might result from failure
of any part of the wind energy facility. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-13-8: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS, OTHER THAN SMALL:
   A.   In addition to the information and requirements hereinbefore specified,
a wind energy system, other than a small wind energy system, may be permitted
provided that a site plan is submitted to the village that must contain and is
in compliance with the additional following requirements:
      1.   Setbacks: All parts of the structure of a wind energy system
including the tower, base, footings, and turbine, but excluding guy cables and
their anchors, shall be set back no less than 1.1 times the height of the
renewable energy system from the end user's property line and all adjacent
property lines, road right of way, railroad right of way, and right of way for
overhead electrical transmission or distribution lines, unless a variance has
been authorized by the village board.
      2.   Location: Wind power generation facilities or WECS other than small
must conform to the following requirements:
         a.   May only be located in districts that are zoned A agriculture or
M1 or M2 manufacturing and requires a special use permit;
         b.   Shall not be located within two thousand feet (2,000') of a
boundary line of any R residential zoning district or C commercial zoning
district;
         c.   No building or tower that is part of a wind power generation
facility or WECS shall encroach onto any recorded easement prohibiting the
encroachment unless the grantees of the easement give their approval to such in
writing and said approval is provided to the village;
         d.   No facility shall encroach onto an existing septic field;
         e.   Any wind power generation or WECS facility located in a special
flood hazard area or wetland shall comply with the requirements of the FP
floodplain overlay district and Illinois department of natural resources;
         f.   A tower that is part of a wind power generation facility shall
require engineering by a licensed engineer; and
         g.   A wind power generation facility may be located on the same lot
as one or more structures or uses.
      3.   Noise: The wind energy conversion system shall not exceed a noise
level of ninety (90) decibels as measured at the closest property line. The
noise level may only be exceeded during short term events such as utility
outages and/or severe windstorms.
      4.   Building Permit Applications: In addition to the special use permit
application hereinbefore specified, a building permit application form of the
village must be completed and approved by the village. The building permit must
include standard drawings of the system structure, including the tower, base,
footings, and guy cables certified by a licensed engineer. This certification
may be supplied by the manufacturer, developer, or owner on behalf of the party
moving to construct the WECS.
         a.   Notifications Regarding Aircraft: Wind energy systems shall
comply with all applicable regulations of the FAA, including any necessary
approvals for installations closer than two (2) miles to an airport. The
applicant has the responsibility of determining the applicable FAA regulations
and securing the necessary approvals. If the system is proposed to be sited in
an agricultural area that may have aircraft operating at low altitudes, the
applicant shall notify all such crop dusting businesses no later than five (5)
business days prior to submitting a building permit application. Copies of
letters must be included in the building permit application.
            (1)   Orange safety balls shall be installed on each side of towers
where guywires are used for towers over eighty feet (80') in height.
            (2)   Lighting shall be installed for security and safety purposes
only. Except with respect to lighting required by the FCC or FAA, all lighting
shall be shielded so that no glare extends substantially beyond the boundaries
of a facility.
            (3)   No artificial lighting shall be allowed on WECS except to the
extent required by the FAA or other air safety authority. Minimal ground level
security lighting is permitted.
            (4)   Documentation shall be provided which verifies that the site
and design are acceptable to the FAA.
         b.   Local Utility Company Notification: If a wind energy system is
intended to be connected to the electricity grid, the applicant shall notify
the electric utility service provider that serves the proposed site of his
intent to install an interconnected customer owned electricity generator no
later than five (5) business days prior to submitting a building permit
application. Copies of letters of approval from the local utility company must
be attached to the building permit application.
      5.   Minimum Distances: The distance between any protruding blades
utilized on a WECS and the ground shall be a minimum of thirty feet (30') as
measured at the lowest point of the arc of the blades.
      6.   Radio And Television Signals: The WECS shall not cause any radio,
television, microwave, or navigation interference. If a signal disturbance
problem is identified, the applicant shall correct the problem within ninety
(90) days of being notified of the problem.
      7.   Appearance: The WECS shall maintain a galvanized neutral finish or
be painted to conform the system color to the surrounding environment to
minimize adverse visual effects. No WECS shall have any signage, writing,
pictures, or decorations placed on it at any time other than warning,
equipment, and ownership information nor shall it have any flags, streamers,
banners, and other decorative items that extend from any part of the system
placed on it at any time.
      8.   Lighting: The WECS must comply with all lighting requirements as
specified by the FAA, and, whenever possible, be at the lowest intensity
allowed using red lights at night. If more than one lighting alternative is
available, the alternative that causes the least visual disturbance must be
used.
      9.   Equipment: Unless located underground, any electrical equipment
associated with a wind energy system shall be located under the sweep area of a
blade assembly unless a variance is approved by the village board.
      10.   Electrical Wires: All electrical wires associated with a wind
energy system, other than wires necessary to connect the wind turbine to its
base and to overhead collection lines, shall be located underground unless a
variance is approved by the village board. Transmission lines and transmission
line poles shall not be located on road rights of way except as necessary to
cross over a road.
      11.   Fencing: The tower shall be enclosed with a fence of at least six
feet (6') in height or the base of the tower shall not be climbable for a
distance of eight feet (8') measured from the ground. This can be achieved
through anticlimbing devices or a fence around the tower with locking portals
at least six feet (6') high.
      12.   Required Safety Features: The wind energy system shall have an
automatic overspeed control to render the system inoperable when winds are
blowing in excess of the speeds for which the system is designed and a manually
operable method to render the system inoperable in the event of a structural or
mechanical failure of any part of the system.
         a.   All access doors on towers or to electrical equipment shall be
locked or fenced.
         b.   Each WECS shall be equipped with both manual and automatic
controls to limit the rotational speed of the blade within the design limits of
the rotor. Manual electrical and/or overspeed shutdown disconnect switches
shall be provided and clearly labeled on the wind turbine structure.
         c.   No WECS shall be permitted which lacks an automatic braking,
governing, or feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation, overspeeding,
and excessive pressure on the tower structure, rotor blades, and turbine
components.
         d.   There shall be clearly visible signs on all WECS, electrical
equipment, and wind energy facility entrances warning of electrical shock or
high voltage and harm from revolving machinery. Signage shall also include a
twenty four (24) hour emergency contact number.
      13.   Tower Height: The height of the facility shall not exceed two
hundred ninety nine feet (299'). The minimum distance from the ground to the
rotor blade tips shall not be less than fifteen feet (15').
      14.   Signal Interference: The owner of a WECS must take such reasonable
steps as are necessary to prevent, eliminate, or mitigate any interference with
cellular, radio or television signals caused by the WECS.
      15.   Liability Insurance: Prior to issuance of a building permit, the
applicant shall provide the village with proof of a general liability insurance
policy at a level to be determined by the village board in consultation with
the village's insurer, to cover damage or injury that might result from failure
of any part of the wind energy facility. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-13-9: APPLICATION REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Application: Applicants for a special use permit for a wind energy
facility must submit copies of the application to the village clerk. If the
application is incomplete, the applicant will be provided with a written
statement detailing the missing information. If the application is complete,
the village clerk will forward the application to the village economic
development committee. The committee, after its review, shall then forward the
completed application to the zoning board of appeals for review at a public
hearing.
   B.   Public Hearing: At least one public hearing shall be held within thirty
(30) days of submittal of the fully completed application for the WECS or WECS
project. Notice of said public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation no more than thirty (30) but no less than fifteen (15)
calendar days after submittal of the fully completed application.
   C.   Approval: The village board shall render a decision within sixty (60)
days of the fully completed application and may grant the special use permit,
grant the special use permit with conditions, or deny the special use permit
and shall render such decision in writing. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
11-13-10: RESTORATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A WECS that is out of service for a continuous twelve (12) month period
shall be deemed to have been and is hereby declared abandoned, unless the
village board approves an extension based on hardship conditions. The village
code enforcement official may issue a notice of abandonment to the owner of a
wind energy system that is deemed to be abandoned.
   B.   The owner of a WECS shall provide the village with a written notice of
termination of operations if the operation of the WECS is terminated.
   C.   Within eight (8) months of receipt of the notice of abandonment or
within eight (8) months of providing a notice of termination of operations, the
owner of a WECS shall:
      1.   Remove all wind turbines, aboveground improvements, and outdoor
storage;
      2.   Remove all foundations, pads, and underground electrical wires to a
depth of four feet (4') below the surface of the ground; and
      3.   Remove all hazardous material from the property and dispose of any
hazardous material in accordance with state and federal law. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-
21-2013)
11-13-11: ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person owning, controlling, or managing any building, structure, or
land who undertakes a wind energy facility in violation of this chapter or in
noncompliance with the terms and conditions of any permit issued pursuant to
this chapter, or any order of the code enforcement officer, and any person who
assists in so doing, shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be subject
to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Every such person shall be guilty of a
separate offense for each day such violation shall continue.
   B.   The village board shall appoint such village staff or outside
consultants as it sees fit to enforce this chapter.
   C.   During construction, the village code enforcement officer may issue a
stop work order at any time for violations of this chapter, the special use
permit, building permit, or site plan approval.
   D.   In case of any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter,
including any permits issued pursuant to this chapter, the village may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful
erection, structural alteration, reconstruction, moving and/or use, and may
restrain, correct, or abate such violation to prevent the illegal act from
continuing. (Ord. 2013-11, 3-21-2013)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Objectives
12-1-3: Duties And Responsibilities
12-1-4: Compliance With Zoning Regulations
12-1-5: Relationship To Comprehensive Plan, Comprehensive Map And Other
Development Requirements
12-1-6: Official Comprehensive Map
12-1-7: Conditions Of Subdivision Approval
12-1-8: Suitability Of Land For Subdividing
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   This title is designed to provide standards and rules related to the
making, reviewing, filing and recording of subdivision and development plans
and plats, and to provide for preliminary and final approval or rejection of
such plans or plats, or portions thereof, by the village and as set forth in
this title.
   B.   For the purpose of the present and future development of the village
and for the promotion of public health and safety, morals, comfort and welfare
of persons living within the territory governed, the provisions and regulations
hereinafter contained which shall govern the subdivision and platting of land
lying within the corporate limits of the village, as now or hereafter existing,
or within the area of jurisdiction of the village as now or hereafter
established under the provision of the statutes of the state, are hereby
adopted as part of the official plan of the village.
   C.   The regulations of this title are further for the purpose of
controlling the future development of the village and for the promotion of the
public health and safety, comfort, morals, and welfare of persons living within
the territory governed by the village. The provisions and regulations in this
title shall govern the subdivision and platting of lands and civil engineering
improvements within planned unit developments and condominiums lying within the
corporate limits of the village as now or hereafter existing and, to the extent
that such provisions and regulations may be applicable, shall also govern the
subdivision and platting of lands and the civil engineering improvements within
planned unit developments, condominiums or subdivisions lying within territory
which is not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate
limits of the village. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-1-2: OBJECTIVES:
Pursuant to the authority conferred by the statutes of the state, the
objectives of this title are:
   A.   To provide for the orderly growth and harmonious development of the
village;
   B.   To secure adequate traffic circulation by means of coordinated street
systems with relation to major thoroughfares and streets adjoining
subdivisions, public walkways, public facilities and other land uses;
   C.   To achieve individual lots of reasonable utility and livability;
   D.   To facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water supply,
stormwater drainage, sanitary sewerage, and health requirements;
   E.   To establish standards for the construction of public improvements;
   F.   To encourage the installation of streetlights and street trees;
   G.   To encourage adequate provisions for recreation areas, open space,
school sites, and other public ways and facilities;
   H.   To ensure conformance with NPDES regulations regarding the control of
erosion and sediment during development and construction;
   I.   To encourage the installation of underground utilities;
   J.   To provide for the further subdivision of tracts into smaller or larger
parcels of land; and
   K.   To provide administrative and review procedures for the attainment of
these objectives. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-1-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The purpose and objectives regarding land subdivision can best be understood by
considering the various duties and responsibilities associated with land
subdividing. The specific duties and responsibilities of the individuals or
groups listed below are clearly identified in this title:
   A.   Subdivider: The subdivider is responsible for initiating discussions
with the village before thoroughly preparing any subdivision drawings or plats
in order to become familiar with this title and the public policies and
objectives applicable to the territory in which the proposed subdivision lies.
   B.   Engineer And Surveyor: The engineer and surveyor acting on behalf of
the subdivider are responsible for preparing the necessary subdivision
drawings, surveys and plats and the engineering drawings and specifications as
required by this title.
   C.   Reviewing Authority: The reviewing authority is the village board of
trustees and its designees whom are responsible for reviewing the subdivision
plan or plat, or portions thereof, and approving those that fully meet the
provisions and requirements of this title.
   D.   Plat Officer: The chair of the economic development committee shall
serve as the plat officer and shall receive drawings, plats, and other
documents as herein provided and furnish them to the various parties involved
as provided in this title. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   If the proposed subdivision lies within the corporate limits of the
village, the developer must first satisfy the zoning requirements in the
"Zoning Ordinance, Village Of Heyworth, Illinois", as adopted and as amended
(title 11 of this code).
   B.   If the proposed subdivision lies outside the village limits, but within
the jurisdictional area of the village, then the developer must satisfy the
zoning requirements in the "McLean County Zoning Ordinance", as adopted and as
amended. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-1-5: RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN, COMPREHENSIVE MAP AND OTHER
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
This title is one of several documents in effect and in force in the village
that govern the use and development of land. Other applicable relevant
documents include the comprehensive plan, which may include the major street
plan and land use plan; the comprehensive map; the master water and sewer plan;
the zoning ordinance; and the water and sewer use ordinance. Where and if the
provisions of these documents conflict, the stricter of the regulations shall
apply. For contiguous areas outside of the corporate limits of the village, the
county zoning ordinance may be applicable. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-1-6: OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE MAP:
   A.   Adoption Of Map: The village has hereby adopted an official
comprehensive map that is made a part of this title. Such map shall include the
incorporated and contiguous unincorporated area within one and one-half (11/2)
miles from the corporate limits of the village which designates the land use of
such area. Such map, along with this title, sets forth standard requirements of
the village relating to size of streets, alleys, public ways, parks,
playgrounds, school sites, other public grounds, and ways for public service
facilities; the kind and quality of materials for public services facilities;
and shall contain the standards required for drainage and sanitary sewers and
collection and treatment of sewage.
   B.   On File: A copy of the official comprehensive map, along with a copy of
this title, shall be on file with the village clerk and available at all times
during business hours for public inspection.
   C.   Compliance Of Plats With Map:
      1.   The economic development committee shall hereby have the authority
to make a recommendation to the village board of trustees as to whether a
proposed plat of a subdivision or resubdivision of territory within the
corporate limits or the contiguous unincorporated area within one and one-half
(11/2) miles of the village corporate limits complies with the official
comprehensive map. The following must be submitted to the economic development
committee of the village when requesting plat approval:
         a.   Not less than four (4) copies of the preliminary plat.
         b.   All documents required pursuant to section
12-4-3 of this title.
      2.   The economic development committee shall make such determination in
the manner and within the time frame set forth in section
12-4-3 of this title and pursuant to the laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord.
2011-22, 6-6-2011)
12-1-7: CONDITIONS OF SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
There are three (3) types of requirements on which subdivision approval is
conditioned:
   A.   First, a prohibition against any subdivision activity in areas where
street access, soil, subsoil, or flooding conditions would create dangers to
health and safety if development were allowed.
   B.   Second, the proposed subdivision should be consistent with the
comprehensive plan for the village. This includes requirements for reservation
of space within the subdivision for planned parks, schools, public roads, and
other improvements.
   C.   Third, the subdivision should be designed in a manner that avoids
overburdening area facilities, i.e., facilities that often are located outside
the subdivision itself. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-1-8: SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVIDING:
   A.   Flooding And Topography: Land subject to flooding and land deemed to be
topographically unsuitable should not be subdivided for residential purposes or
for such other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property, or
aggravate erosion or flood hazards.
   B.   Determination Of Unsuitable Land: The village board of trustees shall
not approve a subdivision of land if, upon adequate investigation conducted by
the village board, it has been determined by the village board that, in the
best interest of the public, the site is not suitable for the subdivision and
development of the kind proposed. In making this evaluation, the village board
shall make reference to the applicable portions of the village comprehensive
plan, the village zoning ordinance, the county zoning ordinance, the county
comprehensive plan, and other general standards of the community. The village
board may further make reference to investigations of soil suitability, or
effects on sensitive habitats, threatened or endangered species, or
archaeological resources, as conducted by the proper authorities.
   C.   Subdivisions Within Special Flood Hazard Areas:
      1.   Compliance With Village Regulations: All subdivision and planned
unit development proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage by complying with the requirements of this title and the village flood
hazard area ordinance 1  or the county special flood hazard area ordinance.
      2.   Required Flood Data: Plats or plans for new subdivisions and planned
unit developments shall display the following flood data:
         a.   Boundary of the special flood hazard area and the boundary of the
floodway, if shown on available flood boundary/floodway map and flood insurance
rate maps;
         b.   Easements or lands dedicated to the public for channel
maintenance purposes; and
         c.   The base flood elevation for each building site.
      3.   Encroachments: Encroachments including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development shall be prohibited within
special flood hazard areas, unless the technical evaluation of the developer's
engineer demonstrates that encroachments shall not result in any significant
increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the 100-year return period
flood event.
      4.   Determination Of Base Flood Data: When a subdivision or part thereof
is located in a flood prone area as designated by the federal emergency
management agency for which no base flood elevation has been provided, the
subdivider shall provide, at his own expense, such hydrologic design data and
calculations and utility and drainage plans as may be required by the village
to assure that the subdivision is consistent with the need to minimize or
eliminate flood damage, in accordance with the village flood hazard area
development ordinance or the county special flood hazard area ordinance.
      5.   Map Revisions Or Amendments: If a letter of map revision or letter
of map amendment is required, it shall be acquired prior to recording of the
final plat. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 8 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
12-2-2: Definitions
12-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms are herein defined. When not
inconsistent with the context, the present tense includes the past and future;
words used in the singular number include the plural number; a word in the
masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders; the word
"building" includes "structure" and shall be construed as if followed by the
words "or portion thereof"; the word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
permissive; any term not defined herein shall have the meaning of common or
standard use. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
BLOCK: Property abutting on one side of a street, and lying between the two (2)
nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right of way, waterway or
other definite barrier.
BLOCK FACE: Property having frontage on one side of a street and lying between
the two (2) nearest intersecting streets, or nearest intersecting or
intercepting street and railroad right of way, waterway or other barrier.
BOULEVARD: A street, other than a freeway or an expressway, developed with two
(2) lane or one lane, one-way pavements, separated by a landscaped island,
median or barrier.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the plat of the proposed subdivision between which it and the
adjacent boundary of the lot, the erection of an enclosed structure or portion
thereof is prohibited. The "building setback line" shall be parallel with the
adjacent street right of way line or side or rear yard line, except as
otherwise approved by the planning commission.
BUTT LOTS: Lots, the rear lot lines of which abut the side lot lines or rear
lot lines of other lots platted in the same block and not separated therefrom
by an alley or other open space.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: An official advisory plan of jurisdiction formally adopted
by the village or the county, any part of which may be implemented by ordinance
duly enacted by the corporate authorities as prescribed by the Illinois
municipal code. Said plan shall be placed on file with the village clerk and
with the McLean County clerk.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A facility constructed to regulate the volume and rate of
stormwater that is released during a specific length of time.
CROSSWALK: A public or private right of way across a block to be used by
pedestrians and/or for underground utilities.
CUL-DE-SAC: A local street having one open end and being terminated at the
other end by a vehicular turnaround.
CULVERT: A closed conduit for the passage of surface drainage water under a
roadway, railroad, or other surface impoundment.
DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any general
public use, reserving to himself no other right than such as is compatible with
the full exercise and enjoyment of the public use to which the property has
been devoted.
DETENTION STORAGE: Temporary detention or storage of stormwater in storage
basins, on rooftops, and in parking lots, schoolyards, parks, open space,
lakes, ponds, and other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions,
with a rate of drainage therefrom regulated by appropriately installed devices.
DEVELOPER: See definition of Owner.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, construction of or substantial improvements to
buildings or other structures, the placement of mobile homes, paving, mining,
filling, or other similar activities.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A contract or agreement entered into between the owner
of a property and the village, which involves a commitment by the owner and/or
the village to contribute funds, effort, or other resources toward the study of
the feasibility and/or the actual construction of extensions of sanitary
sewers, water mains, storm sewers, street improvements, or other infrastructure
improvements needed or desired for the development of the owner's property.
DISCHARGE: The rate of outflow of water from a stormwater drainage or
stormwater detention facility.
DRAINAGE BASIN: An area of land which, because of the nature of the topography,
collects naturally on the surface, the drainage of the surrounding land.
DRY BOTTOM STORMWATER DETENTION BASIN: A facility that is designed to be
normally dry and which accumulates stormwater runoff only during periods when
the restricted stormwater runoff release rate is less than the stormwater
inflow rate.
DRY WEATHER WATER OUTLET: An outlet from a sump pump, footing tile, field tile,
or other source which may discharge at times other than during periods of
rainfall and pursuant to direct surface runoff.
EASEMENT: The quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege, or
advantage in land without profit existing distinct from the ownership of the
land is granted to the public or some particular person or part of the public.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE: An advisory committee to the board of trustees,
whose membership and duties shall be as set forth by the board of trustees.
ENGINEER: A professional engineer, employed by the developer, registered as
such and licensed to practice in the state of Illinois or qualified to practice
as provided by the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
ENGINEER, VILLAGE: A professional engineer, registered as such and licensed to
practice in the state of Illinois, employed by the board of trustees of the
village of Heyworth, to provide technical expertise and counsel concerning
subdivision and zoning matters.
EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of stormwater runoff which exceeds the
transportation capacity of storm sewers, swales, ditches or other natural
drainage channels serving a specific watershed.
FINAL PLAT: A drawing of a subdivision which has been accurately surveyed and
such survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots or other
divisions thereof can be identified.
FLOOD: An overflow of water on lands not normally covered by water, adjacent to
a river, stream, waterway or lake.
FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation of all locations delineating the maximum level
of high waters for a flood of a return period of one hundred (100) years.
FLOODPLAIN: The special flood hazard lands adjoining a watercourse, the surface
elevation of which is lower than the flood elevation and which are subject to
periodic inundation during floods.
GRADE: The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, etc., or natural
ground surface, usually expressed in terms of percentage the vertical rise (or
fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
INLET: An opening into a storm sewer system for the entrance of surface storm
runoff, more completely described as a "storm sewer inlet".
LAND USE PLAN: An official map depicting planned land uses within the one and
one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, adopted as a
portion of the Heyworth comprehensive plan, and amended from time to time.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land, intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or for development.
LOT AREA: The horizontal projection (in square feet) of a parcel of land or a
body of water, or combination of both, exclusive of any portion of the right of
way of any public or private streets; measurements are to be made by standard
surveying practice methods.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land at the junction of and fronting or abutting on
two (2) or more intersecting streets.
LOT DEPTH: The average distance between the front and rear line of a lot,
measured in the general direction of its side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: The real or imaginary line oriented by a monument or other stable
point of reference which indicates the boundary of a lot.
LOT WIDTH: A. For regular shaped lots, the "lot width" shall mean the average
distance between the side lines of a lot, measured at right angles to the depth
of the lot along the lot frontage.
   B.   For irregularly shaped or wedge shaped lots, the "lot width" shall be
the distance between the side lot lines, measured along the curvature of the
arc at the points of intersection of the front setback line with the side lot
lines.
   C.   Through the subdivision plat review process, the front yard setback
line may be adjusted to increase the front yard setback to meet the minimum
"lot width" requirement for irregular lots, but in no case shall the lot
frontage at the front lot line be less than forty feet (40').
MAJOR STREET PLAN: An official map depicting the location, alignment,
dimensions, identification and classification of existing and proposed public
streets, highways and other thoroughfares within the one and one-half (11/2)
mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, adopted as a portion of the
Heyworth comprehensive plan, and amended from time to time.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET (FRONTAGE ROAD): A local street or highway paralleling,
adjacent to and having limited access to a freeway, expressway, collector
highway, area service highway, or land access highway which provides direct
access to abutting property and protection from through traffic.
MINOR SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land into three (3) or fewer lots which do
not require the design or construction of any major public improvements and
which meet all of the requirements for a minor subdivision set forth in
subsection 12-4-7B of this title.
MONUMENT: A physical structure which marks the location of a corner or other
survey point as required by provisions contained herein.
OWNER: Any person having any legal, equitable or beneficial interest in the
land sought to be subdivided, including the plural as well as the singular, and
firm, association, partnership, private corporation, or combination of any of
them.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A parcel of land, initially under single ownership or
control, which contains two (2) or more principal buildings and/or more than
one principal use, planned and constructed as a unified development.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A drawing and supporting data indicating the proposed layout
of the subdivision in sufficient detail to provide adequate basis for review by
the village and meeting the requirements of this title.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Street pavements, public walkways, monuments, water mains,
sanitary and storm sewers, street signs, drainage ditches, culverts, stormwater
detention basins, and appurtenances to the foregoing items and for use by the
public.
PUBLIC WALKWAY: A right of way dedicated for the purpose of pedestrian access
and located so as to connect two (2) or more streets, or a street and a public
land parcel, or any two (2) parcels of public land.
PUNCH LIST: A list of work items remaining to be completed. The list is
prepared by the developer's engineer or the village engineer noting items of
work remaining to be completed or corrected, usually prepared at the time of
substantial completion of the construction or thereafter.
RECORD DOCUMENTS: One copy of all drawings, specifications, addenda, written
amendments, change orders, field orders and written interpretations and
clarifications in good order and annotated to show all changes made during
construction.
RECORD DRAWINGS: One set of drawings, annotated during and following the
construction phase, showing all measured dimensions, elevations, locations, and
their accompanying general notes regarding the items constructed during said
construction phase.
REPRODUCIBLE COPY: A print or copy of a plat or drawing on transparent film or
paper of adequate weight to withstand handling.
RETURN PERIOD: The average interval of time within which a given rainfall event
will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a "return period" of fifty
(50) years has a two percent (2%) probability of being equaled or exceeded in
any one year.
SETBACK LINE: See definition of Building Setback Line.
SIDEWALK: A pedestrian walkway within a public road right of way, public
walkway or easement.
SKETCH PLAN: A preliminary drawing indicating the proposed general development
of the area to be subdivided.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater.
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Includes all means, natural or manmade, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final
outlet including, but not limited to, any of the following: conduits, storm
sewers, swales, canals, channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets and
pumping stations.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: The water that results from precipitation which is not
absorbed by soil or plant material, which does not evaporate and which flows
over the surface of the ground or is collected in channels, conduits, or ponds.
STREET (HIGHWAY): A right of way, whether designated as a street, highway,
road, lane, court, thoroughfare, parking, freeway, expressway, boulevard, or
avenue, other than an alley or place, usually affording the principal means of
access to abutting property.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A public thoroughfare with a high degree of traffic
continuity established in the major street plan of the village.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to the
arterial street system, including the principal entrance streets of residence
developments and the primary circulating streets within such developments.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between the street or highway right of way and
the lot.
STREET, LOCAL: Minor streets providing direct access to abutting property,
which may be devoted to residential, commercial, or other uses. Streets in this
classification are not considered part of the major thoroughfare system.
SUBDIVIDER: See definition of Owner.
SUBDIVISION: A division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or more
lots, or other divisions of land, including condominiums, planned unit
developments, and use of a tract for more than building, unless otherwise
permitted by the zoning ordinance, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of: a) transfer of ownership; b) building development; c)
redevelopment; or d) lease, including all changes in street lines.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARD: The officially adopted guides, principles,
specifications and standards for the preparation of subdivision plans and plats
indicating, among other things, the maximum and minimum dimensions of the
various elements set forth in the preliminary plat or final plat.
SURVEYOR: A professional land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois as
provided in the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing located on the preliminary plat which sets forth, by
dimensions or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use
to other nearby developments, landmarks, community facilities or services.
VILLAGE: The village of Heyworth, McLean County, Illinois.
WAIVER: A modification or deferral of the strict terms of the relevant
regulations where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest
and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and the result of the
action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result
in unnecessary and undue hardship.
WET BOTTOM STORMWATER STORAGE AREA: A facility that contains a body of water
and which accumulates excess stormwater during periods when the restricted
stormwater runoff release rate is less than the stormwater inflow rate.
ZONING ORDINANCE: A separate ordinance of the village pertaining to the use and
disposition of land with respect to land uses, zoning, lot standards, and other
requirements with which there must be compliance for all uses of land within
the corporate limits of the village 1 . (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-3-1: Platting, Approval And Recording Required
12-3-2: Waivers And Deferrals
12-3-3: Amendments
12-3-4: Fees
12-3-5: Violations, Penalties And Enforcement
12-3-1: PLATTING, APPROVAL AND RECORDING REQUIRED:
   A.   In accordance with state law, no deed or other instrument of transfer
of real property within the corporate limits or within the one and one-half
(11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village shall be accepted by
the county recorder for recording unless said deed or other instrument of
transfer is to a lot or parcel platted and on file or accompanied with a plat
approved by the economic development committee and the village board of
trustees.
   B.   No person owning land composing a subdivision, or his agent, shall
transfer or sell or agree to sell any lot or parcel of land located within such
subdivision by reference to, or exhibition of, or by any other use of a plat of
such subdivision, before such plat has been approved, filed and recorded as
provided in this title. The description of such lot or parcel by metes and
bounds in any contract or instrument of transfer or other document used in the
process of selling or transferring same shall not exempt such owner or agent
from the penalties provided herein.
   C.   No building or occupancy permit shall be issued for any lot hereafter
platted unless such lot has been approved, filed and recorded in accordance
with the requirements of this title.
   D.   The application fees set forth herein are established with the
understanding that all plats and their supporting documents are presented to
the village in final form and that all submittals are fully complete. In the
event that the subdivider provides the village with incomplete submittals or
materials which require substantial review and revision by the village on more
than two (2) occasions, the village may, at its option, consider the materials
as being incomplete and any approvals granted as void. Further review and
action of such incomplete documents shall occur only upon resubmitting those
materials, including payment of any associated application fee. (Ord. 2007-19,
5-21-2007)
12-3-2: WAIVERS AND DEFERRALS:
Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
enforcement of this title would entail practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships, the village board, by resolution, after report by the economic
development committee, may waive or defer them in such a way that the
subdivider is allowed to develop his property in a reasonable manner, but at
the same time, the public welfare and interests of the village and county are
protected and the general intent and spirit of this title preserved. (Ord.
2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-3-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Procedure: The board of trustees may, from time to time, amend this
title through the following procedure:
      1.   The economic development committee shall hold a public hearing on
the proposed amendment. Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village at least one time, not less
than fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing.
      2.   Following the public hearing, the proposed amendment may be
recommended as presented or in modified form by a majority vote of the entire
economic development committee.
      3.   Following its adoption of a recommendation, the economic development
committee shall certify such recommended amendment to the board of trustees for
its adoption.
      4.   The board of trustees may return the proposed amendment to the
economic development committee for further study or recertification or, by a
majority vote of the membership, may, by ordinance or resolution, adopt the
recommended amendment submitted by the committee. However, nothing in this
title shall be construed to limit the village board's authority to recall the
said amending ordinance by a vote of a majority of the village board of
trustees.
      5.   Following adoption by the board of trustees, the adopted amending
ordinance shall be filed in the office of the village clerk. The village clerk
shall file with the county recorder a copy of such amending ordinance.
   B.   Fee: Before any action shall be taken as provided in this section, any
private party or parties proposing an amendment to this title shall deposit
with the village treasurer the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to
cover the approximate cost of this procedure, and under no condition shall said
sum or any part thereof be refunded for failure of said change to be adopted by
the board of trustees. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-3-4: FEES:
   Subject Matt   FSection Reference
   Subject Matter              Fee                      Section Reference
Submittal or resubmittal of a  $100.00, plus $5.00 per lot    12-4-3D1b
preliminary plat
                               The cost incurred by the
                               village for review of the
                               engineering drawings and
                               specifications by the village
                               engineer, and inspection of
                               the improvements by village
Plan review and inspection fee staff or the village's         12-4-5B
                               designated representative
                               shall be paid by the
                               subdivider, on a monthly
                               basis, not to exceed 2 percent
                               of the total costs of
                               construction of the
                               subdivision
Submittal or resubmittal of a  $100.00, plus $5.00 per lot    12-4-6B1b
final plat
Application fee for those
submissions involving          $750.00                        12-4-6B1c
annexation agreements
Penalty fee for commencing     $1,000.00, plus incurred cost
construction prior to the      of the village in inspecting   12-4-8C5
approval of the subdivision    and testing work performed
                               prior to approval
Application fee for
resubdividing or replatting                                  12-4-11
lots:
    Within village limits  $250.00 minimum, plus $25.00
                               per lot over 10 lots
    Outside village limits $500.00 minimum, plus $35.00
                               per lot over 10 lots
Application fee for PUD within $500.00 minimum, plus $35.00
the village extraterritorial   per lot over 10 lots           12-4-9B
region
Application fee for annexation $750.00                        12-4-9B
involving PUD
Penalty fee for commencing     $1,000.00, plus incurred cost
construction prior to PUD      of the village in inspecting   12-4-9B
approval                       and testing work performed
                               prior to approval
Application fee for those PUDs
including manufactured housing $1,500.00, plus $100.00 per    12-4-12H3
(such as mobile home or        lot
trailer court)
Fee in lieu of land dedication
for parks, open spaces or      $600.00 per acre               12-6-2B2
recreational areas
 
(Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
12-3-5: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Penalty: Any owner or agent who violates any section of this title
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each lot or parcel so transferred or sold or agreed to be
sold. Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   B.   Administrative Fine: The chair of the economic development committee
may determine and administratively assess a fine for any instance of
noncompliance with this title which he may find, noting that said fine shall
continue for each day that such violation continues. The per diem fine for
noncompliance shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). If the offender pays the
administrative fine assessed and also corrects said noncompliance, then no
further proceedings shall be required. In the event that an administrative fine
has been assessed, the extent of such fine may be appealed to the village board
of trustees. The decision of the village board of trustees shall be final.
   C.   Violations Enumerated: Violations include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Recording of any plat or portion thereof that is not in compliance
with this title.
      2.   The sale, offering for sale, or other transfer of ownership of any
or all lots without prior recording as set forth in this title.
      3.   Failure to construct any public or private improvement included in
any approved plat or engineering drawings.
      4.   Construction of improvements not specifically approved in any
approved plat or engineering drawings, including changes in grading, fill,
alteration of drainage systems, etc.
   D.   Notice Of Violation: The village public works superintendent or other
duly authorized representative of the board of trustees may serve a notice of
violation and order upon any person responsible, in whole or in part, for the
construction, alteration, repair, maintenance or removal of public improvements
in violation of engineering drawings and specifications approved pursuant to
this title, or in violation of any permit issued under the provisions of this
title, or otherwise in violation of this title. Such order may direct the
discontinuance of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the
violation.
   E.   Stop Work Order: Upon notice from the village public works
superintendent or other duly authorized representative of the board of trustees
that work on any public improvement is being prosecuted contrary to the
provisions of this title or is being prosecuted in an unsafe or dangerous
manner, such work shall be immediately stopped. Such a notice stopping work, a
stop work order, shall be in writing and shall be served upon or otherwise
given to the subdivider, or the subdivider's engineer, or to any person in
charge of or performing work on public improvements in the subdivision, or to
an agent of any of the foregoing. Such an order shall state the conditions
under which work may be resumed. No person shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as is required to be
performed to remove a violation or dangerous or unsafe condition. The chair of
the economic development committee may also, in the event he finds any improper
construction activities not in conformance with this title, issue a stop work
order which shall require the immediate cessation of any further work on the
project until the violations are remedied.
   F.   Appeals: The subdivider, subdivider's engineer, any person in charge of
or performing work on public improvements in the subdivision or any other
interested person may appeal to the board of trustees from a decision of the
village public works superintendent or other duly authorized representative of
the board of trustees issuing a notice of violation or stop work order pursuant
to this section. The appeal shall be in writing setting forth the reasons for
the appeal and shall be filed with the village clerk within ten (10) days after
receipt of the notice or stop work order. The appeal shall be heard at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the board of trustees, but not more than thirty
(30) days following the receipt of the appeal by the village clerk. The filing
of an appeal shall not operate as a stay of a notice of violation or stop work
order. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-4-1: Submission Phases
12-4-2: Informal Discussion Phase (Optional)
12-4-3: Preliminary Plat
12-4-4: Preparation Of Applicable Permits
12-4-5: Engineering Drawings And Specifications
12-4-6: Final Plat
12-4-7: Minor Subdivisions
12-4-8: Construction
12-4-9: Acceptance Of Public Improvements
12-4-10: Issuance Of Building Permits And Certificate Of Occupancy
12-4-11: Resubdividing And Replatting Recorded Lots; Vacation Of Plats
12-4-12: Planned Unit Developments
12-4-1: SUBMISSION PHASES:
   A.   Subdivision planning, review and approval shall proceed through the
following sequential phases:
      1.   Informal discussion phase (optional).
      2.   Preliminary plat review and approval phase.
      3.   Approval of engineering drawings and specifications.
      4.   Final plat review and approval phase.
      5.   Recording phase.
   B.   Subdivisions that satisfy the definition of "minor subdivision" in
section
12-2-2 of this title are subject only to the requirements and procedures
enumerated in section
12-4-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
12-4-2: INFORMAL DISCUSSION PHASE (OPTIONAL):
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the informal discussion phase, insofar as
possible, is to guide and assist the subdivider in his future decisions with a
view to avoiding later difficulties and delays. This is an optional forum by
which the subdivider may receive early feedback prior to incurring the costs
and time of detailed subdivision design and engineering. This is the basic
policy stage, during which the subdivider meets with the village board of
trustees. In the course of the discussions, the subdivider should make known
his tentative drawings for subdividing and development, and may exhibit
sketches and drawings, and shall be apprised by the board concerning specific
public policies and objectives which the board may have for the area in
question. Discussion at this phase shall involve the entire area of ownership
and anticipated development.
   B.   Request For Conference; Submission Of Drawings: A preapplication
conference may be requested by all subdividers prior to initial plat
applications. Subdividers may contact the chair of the economic development
committee to arrange a preapplication conference. Subdividers may submit
sketches or drawings at this stage with material sufficient to identify the
tract and establish the relationship of the proposed development with the
surrounding area.
   C.   Processing Request:
      1.   Upon a request for a preapplication conference, the chair of the
economic development committee shall schedule the preapplication conference for
the next meeting of the economic development committee. All materials will be
considered as submitted for informal discussion. Discussions will involve the
proposals in compliance with this title, determination of the scope of the
proposed subdivision, an outline of the procedures for the recording of plats
and general information exchanges.
      2.   No approvals will result from this conference; however, the economic
development committee may make recommendations on the scope of the initial plat
application by the subdivider, continuity of the proposed street pattern with
existing or proposed streets adjacent to the proposed subdivision, and other
factors based on peculiarities of the area in which the subdivision is
proposed.
   D.   Review: Review of any material submitted by the subdivider during the
informal discussion phase shall be made by the economic development committee
(a similar review shall be made by the village engineer if requested by the
chair of the economic development committee or the village board of trustees).
Any sketch or drawing submitted shall be studied with regard to the best
principles of land subdividing and development; to lot sizes and proportions;
to existing and planned land uses; to topography and drainage; to provisions
for recreation areas, public open space, schools, parks and other public
facilities; to design and location of streets; and to conformity with the
continuity of existing street systems, walkways and related matters.
   E.   Inspection: The economic development committee may make an inspection
of the site to determine its relationship to and effect upon major
thoroughfares, utility systems, and adjacent land uses (existing and planned)
and ascertain the existence of any unusual problems, and shall determine:
      1.   The conformity of the proposed development to existing zoning
regulations, official road maps, and municipal development plans and policies.
      2.   The effect of the proposed development upon schools, public open
spaces, and other nearby community facilities. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
12-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the preliminary plat phase, insofar as
possible, is to assist the subdivider and the reviewing authorities in
determining whether the proposed subdivision conforms to the standards and
requirements of this title and the pertinent standards and regulations of
affected municipal departments. The preliminary plat is the document which
shall be used for review by the economic development committee and the village
engineer.
   B.   Plat Required; Waiver:
      1.   The subdivider shall prepare a preliminary plat and the supporting
documentation required by this title. The economic development committee may
waive the requirements for a preliminary plat if it determines:
         a.   That five (5) lots of less than five (5) acres each are created;
and
         b.   The subdivision fronts on an existing adequately improved street;
and
         c.   The subdivision does not involve any new streets or easements of
access or the extension of other municipal facilities; and
         d.   The subdivision does not adversely affect adjoining or nearby
property or the development of the remainder of the parcel; and
         e.   The subdivision does not conflict with any provision of the
official plan.
         f.   The subdivision proposed for platting does not constitute a
portion of a larger tract of land owned, or under option to purchase, by the
subdivider.
         g.   The subdivision proposed for platting does not constitute a
portion of a larger land area, the development of which will be complicated by
unusual problems of drainage, street layout, utility services, land usage, or
of land ownership pattern.
      2.   When the economic development committee does waive the requirement
for a preliminary plat, the following shall apply:
         a.   The requirement for a final plat shall continue to be in effect.
         b.   The fee shall be paid when the final plat is submitted.
         c.   All the documentation required to support a preliminary plat must
be submitted with the final plat.
         d.   The economic development committee shall hold a public hearing
before taking action on the final plat.
         e.   No further subdivision of adjacent land owned by the same
beneficial interest shall be considered for subdivisions within five (5) years
without full compliance with the requirements for a preliminary plat.
   C.   Information Required: The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a
professional engineer and a professional land surveyor. The preliminary plat,
and construction drawings approved by the village engineer, are to be approved
by the village board of trustees before any subdivision development is started.
The following items and information shall be shown on the preliminary plat; all
mapped data shall be presented at a scale of one inch to one hundred feet (1" =
100') or larger, on sheets not larger than twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36"), with lettering not smaller than one-tenth inch (1/10"), so
that the plat is clearly legible without magnification:
      1.   General Information:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision; landowner's, engineer's and
surveyor's names and addresses.
         b.   The location of the subdivision by township, range, and section
for reference; section or quarter section corners shall be indicated.
         c.   The preliminary plat approval certificate. See subsection H of
this section for the preliminary plat approval certificate form.
      2.   Existing Conditions:
         a.   The locations, width, and names of all existing public and/or
private streets, railroads, or other public ways and utility rights of way
within and/or adjacent to the tract to within two hundred feet (200') of the
boundary of the tract.
         b.   The locations and size of all existing sanitary sewerage, water
mains and appurtenances, storm drainage, known field drainage tile or other
known underground facilities within the tract or near the tract, and any such
known facilities entering or exiting the tract.
         c.   The topography, spot elevations at critical points and contour
intervals of not greater than two feet (2'), regardless of grade, related to
the national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 or 1988 (mean sea level) on the
site, within one hundred feet (100') of the boundaries of the site, and for
additional distance beyond if necessary to adequately depict drainage
conditions.
         d.   The location and identification of all public and quasi- public
areas and civil division lines within and/or adjacent to the tract, to within
two hundred feet (200') of the boundary of the tract.
         e.   The location and identification of all recorded subdivisions
lying adjacent to, or across a public right of way from, the tract.
         f.   Drainage characteristics including wetlands, drainage patterns,
flood prone areas as identified on flood prone area maps of the federal
emergency management agency, and the acreage and identification of the drainage
basin or basins that lie upstream from the tract of land that is proposed for
subdivision.
         g.   The location and identification of all existing manmade features
such as buildings, high tension towers, public water and sewer lines,
pipelines, excavations, bridges, railroad tracks, culverts and related items
within and/or adjacent to the tract, to within one hundred feet (100') of the
boundary of the tract proposed to be subdivided. The preliminary plat shall
note the location of the nearest public sewer and public water lines.
         h.   The location of existing streams, rivers, drains, lakes, ponds
and impoundments within and/or adjacent to the tract to within one hundred feet
(100') of the tract.
         i.   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
adjacent tracts.
         j.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision indicated by solid heavy
line so designated, and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby.
         k.   Other items required to properly depict the existing situation.
      3.   Proposed Conditions:
         a.   Arterial streets (80 foot right of way) are required on
approximately mile section lines, and collector streets (70 foot right of way)
are required on approximately one-half (1/2) mile section lines. (See the major
street plan of the village for exact location.) Collector street locations not
specifically depicted upon the major street plan may be designated by the
village board at the time of review of the preliminary plat.
         b.   The locations, width, and names of proposed streets and rights of
way widths including connections to adjoining public and/or private street
rights of way.
         c.   The location and width of walkways and easements including
connections to adjoining public lands and public and/or private walkways and
easements.
         d.   Easements for public utilities and maintenance.
         e.   All lots, including the required setback lines and scaled
dimensions of typical lots. All lots contained on the proposed plat must be
numbered in consecutive order.
         f.   The location and acreage of any proposed public and/or quasi-
public land within the tract. Before the economic development committee
approves a preliminary plat showing park reservation or land for other local
government use that is proposed to be dedicated to the local government, the
committee shall obtain approval of the park or land reservation from its
governing body.
         g.   The plan of any proposed watercourses or impoundments, including
stream relocation, showing normal water levels and direction of flow.
         h.   The provisions for water supply, sewage disposal, and stormwater
disposal indicated by a general drainage plan of sufficient detail to show how
the water will be moved over the site, and subsurface drainage including
provisions for continual maintenance of natural drainage courses and field
drainage tile systems. Known on site field drainage tile systems serving areas
off the site shall be located in designated easements.
   D.   Submission Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   Subdividers shall submit the following to the village chair of the
economic development committee:
         a.   Three (3) copies of the preliminary plat and supportive materials
as required, at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the economic
development committee meeting at which the subdivider wishes the preliminary
plat to be considered.
         b.   An application fee to accompany the submittal or resubmittal of a
preliminary plat for a subdivision within the corporate limits of the village
or within the one and one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village. Said fee shall be provided in section
12-3-4 of this title. The check shall be made payable to the village.
         c.   Completed preliminary plat application form, said form approved
by the village, including all attachments thereto.
         d.   List of waivers being requested.
         e.   Subdividers may also submit additional copies of the preliminary
plat for the purpose of obtaining copies of executed preliminary plats, pending
village board approval. The additional copies of the preliminary plat shall
remain the property of the subdivider. See subsection H of this section for the
preliminary plat approval certificate.
      2.   Subdividers shall also submit the following to the village engineer:
         a.   Two (2) copies of the preliminary plat and supportive materials
as required, at least fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the economic
development committee meeting at which the subdivider wishes the preliminary
plat to be considered.
         b.   List of waivers being requested.
   E.   Review Of Plat: The economic development committee and the village
engineer shall concurrently examine the preliminary plat for compliance with
this title, with special attention given to the following (a similar review
shall be made by the village engineer if requested by the chair of the economic
development committee or the village board of trustees):
      1.   Design standards and information requirements as set forth by this
title.
      2.   Streets and thoroughfares as related to neighborhood circulation and
existing and proposed topography.
      3.   Existing zoning and existing and planned land use.
      4.   The village comprehensive plan, including the land use plan and
major street plan.
      5.   Land required for schools, parks, or other public use.
      6.   Utility methods and systems, drainage and street improvement.
      7.   Watercourses and floodplain areas.
      8.   The existence of threatened or endangered species of plants or
animals.
      9.   The existence of archaeological or historic resources.
   F.   Mobile Home Or Mobile Home Park Fee: The submittal or resubmittal of a
preliminary plat for a subdivision (be it within the corporate limits of the
village or within the 11/2 mile extraterritorial jurisdictional area of the
village), which includes a "mobile home" or "mobile home park" (as such terms
are defined in section
11-3-2 of this code) shall be accompanied by an application fee made payable to
the village. The payment of this fee shall be in addition to any other fees
(including preliminary platting fees) required by this title or any other
ordinance. The amount of the fee shall be as provided in section
12-3-4 of this title.
   G.   Approval Or Disapproval Of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   If all the above requirements have been satisfied, the chair of the
economic development committee will present the preliminary plat to the
economic development committee at the next regular meeting. If requested by the
economic development committee, the subdivider or a responsible representative
shall attend this meeting. The committee shall either:
         a.   Recommend disapproval of the preliminary plat.
         b.   Recommend approval of the preliminary plat.
         c.   Recommend approval of the preliminary plat, subject to minor
modifications.
      2.   If the economic development committee recommends disapproval of the
preliminary plat, the reasons for the recommendation for denial shall be
clearly set forth and communicated in writing to the subdivider.
      3.   If the economic development committee recommends approval of the
preliminary plat, it shall be so executed at that time. The original
preliminary plat and two (2) copies must be executed by the chair of the
village economic development committee. Any additional preliminary plats
provided by the subdivider must also be executed at that time. See subsection H
of this section for the preliminary plat approval certificate form.
      4.   The chair of the economic development committee shall then submit
the recommendation of the committee to the village board of trustees for their
review, consideration and approval or disapproval.
      5.   If the village board of trustees approves the preliminary plat, it
shall be so executed at that time by the mayor and the village clerk. The
original preliminary plat and two (2) copies must be executed. Any additional
preliminary plats provided by the subdivider must also be executed at that
time. See subsection H of this section for the preliminary plat approval
certificate form.
      6.   The approval of the preliminary plat by the village board of
trustees shall be in effect for a period of one year from the approval date.
The period that approval is in effect may be extended administratively by
action of the village board for up to one additional year. If the final plat
and subdivision improvement drawings and specifications have not been filed on
or before this date, then the preliminary plat approval shall become null and
void; and if the preliminary plat becomes null and void, then a resubmittal of
the preliminary plat for the development will be required just as if the
development were starting anew.
      7.   Approval of the preliminary plat by the village confers upon the
subdivider the following rights for a period of twelve (12) months from the
date of approval, subject to existing law, or ordinances or statutes: The
subdivider may submit on or before the expiration date a final plat for the
whole or part thereof of the preliminary plat for consideration by the village.
      8.   Approval of the preliminary plat by the village board of trustees
shall be indicated on the drawings.
   H.   Plat Approval Certificate: On the preliminary plat, the following
certificate shall appear:
      PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
   THE PRELIMINARY PLAT ENTITLED                         HAS RECEIVED APPROVAL
BY THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE OF THE VILLAGE OF HEYWORTH, ILLINOIS,
THIS              DAY OF              , 20              .
   CHAIRMAN               
   DATE    
      PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL
THE PRELIMINARY PLAT ENTITLED                         HAS RECEIVED APPROVAL BY
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF HEYWORTH, ILLINOIS, THIS             
DAY OF              , 20              .
MAYOR    
DATE               
VILLAGE CLERK               
DATE               
(SEAL)
   (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
12-4-4: PREPARATION OF APPLICABLE PERMITS:
   A.   Purpose: The subdivider shall submit engineering drawings,
specifications, and appropriate application forms to all permitting authorities
and pay all costs associated with obtaining the necessary approvals to
construct the proposed improvements. The purpose of this section is to draw the
subdivider's attention to commonly required permitting in Illinois.
   B.   Provisions Not Comprehensive: This section makes reference to several
of the more common permits required for construction in Illinois. By no means
shall this section constitute a comprehensive listing of all permitting that
may be required for a development, nor shall this section constitute an
exhaustive description of all conditions for application.
   C.   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit (IEPA):
      1.   When one or more acres shall be disturbed, the Illinois
environmental protection agency (IEPA) requires the subdivider to submit a
notice of intent and prepare a stormwater pollution prevention plan.
      2.   As a requirement of application, the subdivider must satisfy the
applicable requirements for compliance with Illinois law on historic
preservation and endangered species:
         a.   The Illinois department of natural resources (IDNR), in
accordance with the Illinois endangered species protection act 1  and the
Illinois natural areas preservation act 2 , must issue a written evaluation of
the construction process as a "success" in protecting the resource. This
evaluation is typically issued within thirty (30) days of application to the
IDNR.
         b.   The Illinois historic preservation agency (IHPA) must issue a
written review of the construction process assessing the possibility of impact
to historically sensitive locations. This review is typically issued within
thirty (30) days of application.
      3.   Discharge of stormwater is authorized thirty (30) days after the
date the notice of intent is postmarked.
   D.   Water Construction Permit (IEPA):
      1.   A construction permit is required by the IEPA prior to beginning
construction of any proposed community water supply and prior to all
alterations or extensions of an existing community water supply.
      2.   A construction permit is not required for normal work items such as:
         a.   Installation of customer service connections to distribution
system water mains.
         b.   Installation or replacement of hydrants and valves in the
distribution system.
         c.   Replacement of water mains with mains of equivalent size and
material in the same location.
         d.   Routine maintenance of equipment such as painting, reconditioning
or servicing.
         e.   Replacement of waterworks equipment such as chemical feeders,
pumps or controls with equivalent equipment.
      3.   Two (2) copies each of the plans, specifications and the following
items must be submitted to the IEPA division of public water supplies for
review and approval:
         a.   The application for construction permit form.
         b.   Schedule A - engineer's cost estimate form.
         c.   Schedule B - water main construction form (for water main
extension projects).
      4.   The IEPA typically reviews and issues the construction permit within
forty five (45) to ninety (90) days of application. If there is no action by
the IEPA after ninety (90) days, construction may proceed.
      5.   An operating permit should also be obtained prior to use or
operation of the water structure.
   E.   Sanitary Sewer Construction/Operation Permit (IEPA):
      1.   A construction/operation permit is required by the IEPA prior to
construction of any proposed sanitary sewer systems, prior to all alterations
or extensions of an existing sanitary sewer system and prior to installation of
customer service connections to distribution sanitary sewer systems.
      2.   The following must be submitted to the IEPA division of water
pollution control:
         a.   Two (2) copies of the WPC-PS-1 application for construction/
operation permit approval form.
         b.   The required map or letter from the IHPA indicating that they
have reviewed the project.
         c.   Plans or a suitable sketch of the project.
         d.   A map of the immediate area to be served by the sewer in
question.
         e.   Schedule A (for sewer service connections).
         f.   Schedule B (for publicly owned or regulated sewer extensions).
         g.   Schedule P (if construction involves excavation for the purpose
of construction of sewers greater than 15 inches in diameter, for all sewage
treatment plants and lift stations, and of all sewer extensions and connections
longer than 2,000 feet in total length).
      3.   The IEPA typically reviews and issues the construction/operation
permit within forty five (45) to ninety (90) days of application. (Ord. 2009-
99, 8-24-2009)
   F.   Utility Permit (Village): A utility permit shall be required prior to
any connection of a private water service or sanitary sewer service to a public
water main or a public sewer main. Permits issued by the village for the
construction of such improvements shall be as set forth in
title 10, chapter 4 of this code.
   G.   Excavation Permit (Village):
      1.   An excavation permit shall be required prior to commencement of all
demolition or construction related activities except for excavation or fill
less than fifty (50) cubic yards, with less than a four foot (4') cut,
disturbing less than five thousand (5,000) square feet on the site.
      2.   Permits issued by the village for excavation work shall be as set
forth in title 10, chapter 4 of this code.
   H.   Curb Cut Permit (Village): A curb cut permit shall be required prior to
any cut or removal of public curb and gutter, sidewalk, or street. Permits
issued by the village for such work shall be as set forth in
title 10, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 2011-22, 6-6-2011)
   I.   Building Permit (Village): A building permit shall be required prior to
commencement of any of the construction related activities enumerated in
title 10, chapter 4 of this code.
   J.   Occupancy Permit (Village): Structures intended for occupancy shall be
subject to the requirements for issuance of occupancy permits as set forth in
title 10, chapter 5 of this code.
   K.   Developments Crossing Water Bodies: Developments involving the crossing
of or in the vicinity of streams or other water bodies must satisfy the
permitting requirements of the Illinois department of natural resources.
   L.   Developments Fronting Highways: Developments which front or otherwise
access state highways must satisfy the permitting requirements of the Illinois
department of transportation. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 520 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
2 2. 525 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
12-4-5: ENGINEERING DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   General Requirements: The subdivider shall cause engineering drawings
and specifications to be prepared for all improvements required or regulated by
this title. The improvements shall be designed to conform to the minimum
standards set forth in this title and shall also conform to the minimum
standards and requirements of other local, state, and federal authorities which
have jurisdiction over the subdivision. Engineering drawings and specifications
shall be prepared under the supervision of an engineer licensed pursuant to the
laws of the state of Illinois and shall bear the engineer's seal and signature.
(Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
   B.   Plan Review And Inspection Fee: The cost incurred by the village for
review of engineering drawings and specifications by the village engineer, and
inspection of the improvements by village staff or the village's designated
representative, shall be paid by the subdivider as provided in section
12-3-4 of this title. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Submission Of Engineering Drawings And Specifications:
      1.   Subdividers shall furnish the village engineer three (3) sets of
engineering drawings and specifications. The subdivider shall also submit
stormwater drainage calculations, design analyses, and other such supporting
documentation as the village engineer may deem necessary for review of the
engineering drawings.
      2.   The village engineer shall complete his review of these documents
within three (3) calendar weeks of their receipt.
      3.   Subdividers may also submit additional copies of the engineering
drawings for the purpose of obtaining copies of executed engineering drawings,
pending village engineer approval. The additional copies of the engineering
drawings shall remain the property of the subdivider.
      4.   Subdividers shall also furnish the village engineer an erosion and
sedimentation control plan showing measures necessary to meet the objectives of
this title throughout all phases of construction and permanently after
completion of development of the site.
   D.   Review Facilitating Commencement Of Construction:
      1.   The subdivider shall submit engineering drawings and specifications
to the village engineer for review prior to the commencement of construction of
any improvements required or regulated by this title. The village engineer
shall review engineering drawings and specifications for conformance to this
title.
      2.   Approval of the engineering drawings and specifications shall be
formalized by a letter from the village engineer to the subdivider expressing
said approval. After receipt of this letter by the subdivider, commencement of
construction shall be considered permissible. Construction performed prior to
approval of the final plat shall, however, be at the risk of the subdivider.
      3.   The engineering drawings and specifications shall be executed at the
next regular village board meeting by the village engineer, mayor and the
village clerk. See subsection H of this section for the engineering drawings
and specifications approval certificate form.
   E.   Review Facilitating Final Plat Approval:
      1.   The subdivider shall submit engineering drawings and specifications
to the village engineer for review as a requisite of final plat approval. The
village engineer shall review engineering drawings and specifications for
conformance to this title.
      2.   Approval of the engineering drawings and specifications shall be
formalized by a letter from the village engineer to the subdivider expressing
said approval.
      3.   The engineering drawings and specifications shall be executed at the
next regular village board meeting by the village engineer, mayor and the
village clerk. See subsection H of this section for the engineering drawings
and specifications approval certificate form.
   F.   Documents To Public Works Superintendent: The subdivider shall also
furnish the village public works superintendent two (2) sets of engineering
drawings and specifications prior to commencement of any construction
operations.
   G.   Specifications And Required Documents: The drawing sheets shall be
twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36") or an approved alternate
size. The minimum graphic scale shall be one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100'), or other scale as authorized by the village engineer. Lettering shall be
at least one-tenth inch (1/10") in height for full size prints. The drawings
shall include the following items as required for the particular development:
      1.   Cover sheet depicting the project location and the engineer's seal
and original signature; also, the engineering drawings and specifications
approval certificate. See subsection H of this section for the engineering
drawings and specifications approval certificate form.
      2.   Topographic map showing existing contours and spot elevations and
proposed contours and spot elevations related to national geodetic vertical
datum of 1929 or 1988, as indicated (mean sea level) with a contour interval
not greater than two feet (2').
      3.   Grading plan, with proposed contours and any surface drainage
components.
      4.   Street plan with typical sections.
      5.   Street profiles.
      6.   Storm sewer plan.
      7.   Storm sewer profiles.
      8.   Sanitary sewer plan and service tees and/or wyes.
      9.   Sanitary sewer profiles.
      10.   Water distribution plan, including valves, hydrants, fittings, and
services.
      11.   Details, general notes, benchmarks, and complete construction
details.
      12.   A traffic control plan shall be included in the site engineering
plans for all subdivisions. Barricades and lighting and other traffic control
measures shall be provided, as necessary, during construction, in accordance
with the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", latest edition.
   H.   Certificate Of Approval: The following certificate shall appear on the
cover sheet of the engineering drawings for the subdivision:
   APPROVAL BY THE VILLAGE OF HEYWORTH
THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR       
HAVE RECEIVED A RECOMMENDATION FOR (APPROVAL) (DISAPPROVAL) BY THE VILLAGE
ENGINEER.
VILLAGE ENGINEER    
DATE       
THE DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR       
HAVE RECEIVED APPROVAL BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF HEYWORTH.
MAYOR       
DATE       
VILLAGE CLERK       
DATE       
(SEAL)
(Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
12-4-6: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Concurrent With Or Prior To Construction: Preparation of the final plat
may be concurrent with or prior to construction. Construction performed prior
to final plat approval shall, however, be at the risk of the subdivider.
Approval of the engineering drawings and specifications by the village engineer
shall be a requisite for both commencement of construction and approval of the
final plat.
   B.   Submission Of Plat; Time Constraints: At any time within one year after
receiving preliminary plat approval by the village board of trustees and after
receiving approval of the engineering drawings and specifications by the
village engineer, the subdivider shall submit the final plat for consideration
of approval.
      1.   Subdividers shall submit the following to the village chair of the
economic development committee:
         a.   Three (3) copies of the final plat, fourteen (14) calendar days
prior to any regular meeting of the economic development committee.
         b.   The submittal or resubmittal of a final plat for a subdivision
within the corporate limits of the village or within the one and one-half (11/
2) mile extraterritorial jurisdictional area of the village shall be
accompanied by a fee as provided in section
12-3-4 of this title.
         c.   For those submissions involving annexation agreements, the
applicable application fee shall be as provided in section
12-3-4 of this title. The check shall be made payable to the village.
         d.   Completed final plat application form, as approved by the
village, including all attachments thereto.
         e.   Not less than one copy of each of the following documents:
            (1)   All covenants, agreements, and deed restrictions which are to
be imposed by the subdivider on future owners of lots within the subdivision
once approved.
            (2)   A notarized certification by the owner and by the mortgage
holder of record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and
other public areas, and any restrictions as to usage, buildings, occupancy,
etc. See example form at section
12-7-2 of this title.
            (3)   Certification from the county clerk that all taxes and
special assessments due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full
as required by statutes.
            (4)   Certification from the village treasurer that all special
assessments due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full (not
required for subdivision out of village limits).
            (5)   Any required floodplain development permit or applicable
letter of map revision.
            (6)   Any required formal irrevocable offers of dedication to the
public of all streets, local government uses, utilities, parks, and easements,
in a form approved by the village attorney, and the subdivision plat shall be
marked with a notation indicating the formal offers of dedication.
            (7)   Any required performance guarantee and surety as required by
subsection D of this section.
      2.   Subdividers shall submit the following to the village engineer:
         a.   Two (2) copies of the final plat, fourteen (14) calendar days
prior to any regular meeting of the economic development committee.
         b.   One copy of the subdivider's engineer's opinion of estimated
costs of construction of public improvements, for evaluation of the amount of
the performance guarantee. See subsection D of this section.
      3.   Subdividers shall submit one copy of the final plat to the village
public works superintendent at any time prior to the economic development
committee meeting designated for consideration of the final plat for approval.
      4.   Subdividers may also submit additional copies of the final plat for
the purpose of obtaining copies of executed final plats, pending village board
approval. The additional copies of the final plat shall remain the property of
the subdivider. See subsection H of this section.
   C.   Required Information: The final plat shall contain or be accompanied by
the information herein specified and shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   General:
         a.   The name of the subdivision.
         b.   The certificate of a registered land surveyor.
         c.   The date of preparation, scale and north arrow. The scale and
size of the plat shall be such that a fifty percent (50%) size photographic
reduction will not impair the details. Plats in several sections are
permissible. No sheet larger than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24"
x 36") shall be submitted. The plat shall be presented at a scale of one inch
to one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger; except, that a different scale may
be used if approved during the preliminary plat phase. Lettering on the full
size plat shall be all capitals of not less than one-tenth inch (1/10") in
height. The plat shall be legible without magnification.
         d.   The location and position of the subdivision indicated in each of
the following ways as applicable:
            (1)   By quarter section, township, range, meridian, county, and
state.
            (2)   By distances and bearings from astronomic or assumed north
and angles with reference to a corner or corners established in the United
States public land survey.
            (3)   By a written legal description of the exterior boundaries of
the land as surveyed and divided.
         e.   The plat shall comply with the current Illinois Compiled
Statutes. Information which shall appear on the plat or on subsidiary documents
is as follows:
            (1)   Location of subdivision relative to village limits.
            (2)   The effect of stormwater runoff on other potentially
developable land and the county's streams and open drainage channels, and a
subsidiary drainage plat showing the topographical and profile plats, with a
signed statement by a professional engineer and the owner stating that to the
best of their knowledge and belief, the drainage and surface water drainage
will not be changed by the subdivision, or if surface water drainage will be
changed, reasonable provision has been made for collection and diversion of
such waters into public areas, or drainage which the subdivider has the right
to use, and that such surface waters will be planned for in accordance with
generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of
damage to adjoining property because of the construction of the subdivision.
            (3)   The following notation shall appear on the face of the plat:
THE PROPERTY COVERED BY THIS SUBDIVISION (IS) (IS NOT) LOCATED WITHIN A FLOOD
HAZARD AREA (ZONE A), AS DETERMINED BY THE FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
(PANEL NUMBER, TITLE, AND DATE OF FEMA STUDY).
         f.   The final plat shall be drawn with ink on a stable plastic film.
         g.   The final plat approval certificate. See subsection H of this
section for the final plat approval certificate form.
      2.   Detailed Information:
         a.   Boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by solid
heavy line and the total acreage encompassed thereby. The plat shall clearly
indicate all streets, alleys, blocks, lots, parcels, easements, and rights of
way. Accurate angular and linear dimensions shall be shown to describe and/or
reproduce any of these features.
         b.   Abutting street lines of platted, adjoining subdivisions shown in
their correct location by broken (dashed) lines.
         c.   The description and location of all subdivision and public land
system survey monuments.
         d.   A consecutive numbering system for all lots and blocks.
         e.   Location and names of all existing or prior platted streets or
other public ways, railroads and utility rights of way, parks and other public
open spaces, permanent easements or prior platted lots within and adjacent to
the subdivision.
         f.   A graphic representation of the minimum setback lines on all lots
and parcels, and a notation of the distance between such lines and the street
line, or lot line.
         g.   Pipes or other equivalent physical markers shall be placed at
each lot corner. No pipe or rod monument shall be less than one-half inch (1/
2") in diameter, standard weight water pipe (inside diameter) or deformed
reinforcing rod at least thirty inches (30") long. Iron pipes encased in
concrete at least four inches by four inches by forty two inches (4" x 4" x
42"), or equivalent, markers shall be placed at any two (2) corners of all new
subdivisions, in accordance with the Illinois professional land surveyor act of
1989 1 . All monuments shall be imprinted with the registration number of the
surveyor making the survey and shall be described on the plat.
      3.   Department Of Transportation Approval: Approval of the final plat by
the Illinois department of transportation if the subdivision adjoins or is
adjacent to a state maintained highway.
      4.   County Engineer Approval: Approval of the final plat by the county
engineer if the subdivision adjoins or is adjacent to a county highway.
      5.   Township Road District Approval: Approval of the final plat by the
township road district if the subdivision is outside the village limits.
      6.   Subsidiary Drainage Plat: A subsidiary drainage plat need not be
filed with the village. All drainage concerns shall be inherently addressed
during the engineering drawings and specifications submission phase.
   D.   Performance Guarantee And Surety:
      1.   The subdivider shall complete the performance guarantee as specified
herein. Performance guarantee and surety of the public improvements shall be
required as a requisite of final plat approval. If construction of the public
improvements has already been completed, acceptance of public improvements by
the village shall be required prior to consideration of the final plat for
approval (see section
12-4-9 of this chapter).
      2.   Performance guarantee and surety shall be one of the following:
         a.   Corporate surety bond (as approved by the Illinois insurance
services office), as approved by the village attorney.
         b.   Certification of deposit as approved by the village attorney.
         c.   Irrevocable letter of credit from an insured bank as approved by
the village attorney.
      3.   The amount of the performance guarantee and surety shall be based on
the estimated value of the public improvements at the time of approval of the
final plat, insuring the village adequate coverage to secure the satisfactory
construction, installation, and dedication of the uncompleted portions of the
required improvements. The village attorney shall approve such performance
guarantee only after a recommendation of approval of the amount of the
guarantee is received from the village engineer.
      4.   Upon substantial completion of major segments of public improvements
with appropriate documentation submitted by the subdivider's engineer, and
after initial tentative acceptance of the completed improvements by the
village, the amount of the performance guarantee may be reduced in stages to
reflect the segments completed, but in no case shall the remaining bond be less
than fifteen percent (15%) of the cost of completing the entire improvements,
all upon recommendations by the village engineer and the village attorney, and
approval granted by the village board of trustees.
      5.   Should the subdivider fail to perform the subdivider's obligation to
construct and maintain public improvements as required by this title, or if the
subdivider fails to complete construction of the public improvements within two
(2) years of final plat approval, the village may liquidate any performance
guarantee in the village possession and use the proceeds to construct or
maintain the improvements in whole or in part as the village, in its sole
discretion, deems appropriate.
      6.   Notwithstanding the amount of the performance guarantee, the owner
of the subdivision shall pay all costs the village actually incurs in designing
and constructing improvements or correcting defects in any improvements the
subdivider is required to install and maintain pursuant to this title but which
the subdivider fails to design, construct, or maintain free from defects in
accordance with this title. If the amount of money received by the village from
the performance guarantee and its security is insufficient to pay all such
costs, the subdivider shall reimburse the village for the remainder within
twenty eight (28) days of the village sending the subdivider a bill for the
balance due.
      7.   Should the village be required to institute proceedings in court in
order to collect any sum due under this subsection, or to enforce the
provisions of the subdivider's performance guarantee, or to collect the
security pledged in support of said guarantee, the village shall be entitled to
collect reasonable attorney fees that it incurs from the subdivider.
   E.   Annexation Of Property:
      1.   Unless the village and owner have entered into an annexation
agreement providing otherwise or the subject property is otherwise already
located within village boundaries and is part of the village, the owner shall
petition to have the subject property annexed to the village.
      2.   The petition for annexation shall be submitted on or before
submission of the final plat.
      3.   See
title 13, chapter 1 of this code for the requirements and regulations governing
the approval process for annexations.
   F.   Approval Or Disapproval Of Final Plat:
      1.   The economic development committee and the village engineer shall
concurrently review the final plat for compliance with this title.
      2.   If all of the above requirements have been satisfied, the chair of
the economic development committee will present the final plat to the committee
at the next regular meeting, and make one of the following recommendations:
         a.   Recommend disapproval of the final plat.
         b.   Recommend approval of the final plat.
         c.   Recommend approval of the final plat, subject to minor
modifications.
      3.   If the economic development committee recommends disapproval of the
final plat, the reason for denial shall be clearly set forth and communicated
in writing to the subdivider.
      4.   If the economic development committee recommends to the village
board of trustees approval of the final plat, it shall be so executed at that
time. The original plat and two (2) copies shall be executed by the chair of
the village economic development committee. Any additional final plats provided
by the subdivider must also be executed at that time. See subsection H of this
section for the final plat approval certificate form.
      5.   The chair of the economic development committee shall then present
the final plat to the village board of trustees at its next regular meeting and
inform them of the chair's recommendation.
   G.   Village Board Action:
      1.   The village board of trustees shall not give final approval to any
proposed subdivision until:
         a.   The economic development committee has recommended approval or
disapproval of the final plat.
         b.   The village engineer has recommended approval or disapproval of
the subdivision improvement drawings and specifications.
         c.   The subdivider presents his guarantee in the amount and form in
accordance with this section and as approved by the village attorney.
         d.   All statutorily required approvals by other governmental agencies
have been received.
      2.   The village board of trustees, after receiving recommendation from
the economic development committee, shall then consider the final plat of the
proposed subdivision. At that time, the village board of trustees shall approve
or disapprove the final plat and shall clearly state their reasons for their
actions.
      3.   In the event the village board of trustees disapproves the plat, the
subdivider has one year from the date of such disapproval to make the
corrections and resubmit to the village board of trustees; otherwise, the prior
approval of the economic development committee and/or the approval of the
village engineer shall become null and void.
      4.   If the village board of trustees approves the final plat, it shall
be so executed at that time by the mayor and the village clerk. The original
final plat and two (2) copies must be executed. Any additional final plats
provided by the subdivider must also be executed at that time. See subsection H
of this section for the final plat approval certificate form.
      5.   After approval of the final plat, drawings and specifications and
receipt of all supporting documents by the village board of trustees, the final
plat may be recorded by the subdivider with the county recorder of deeds within
one year of the date of approval; otherwise, the final plat and approval shall
become void. The village retains the option to require that a representative of
the village be present when the subdivider records the plat.
   H.   Certificate Of Approval: On the final plat, the following certificate
shall appear:
   FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
THE FINAL PLAT ENTITLED                                HAS RECEIVED A
RECOMMENDATION FOR (APPROVAL) (DISAPPROVAL) BY THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
COMMITTEE OF HEYWORTH, ILLINOIS, THIS           DAY OF             , 20  .
CHAIRMAN       
DATE       
THE FINAL PLAT ENTITLED                         HAS RECEIVED APPROVAL BY THE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF HEYWORTH, ILLINOIS. THIS PLAT SHALL BE
RECORDED WITH THE RECORDER OF DEEDS, MCLEAN COUNTY, ILLINOIS, WITHIN ONE (1)
YEAR OF THIS DATE, OTHERWISE THIS PLAT SHALL BECOME VOID.
MAYOR       
DATE       
VILLAGE CLERK    
DATE       
(SEAL)
   I.   Subdivider's Agreement And Bond:
   SUBDIVIDER'S AGREEMENT AND BOND
The undersigned, of the                ,                      County, Illinois,
being the subdivider of a certain parcel of land having a detailed legal
description as shown on the said preliminary plat of said parcel, which said
subdivision is to be known as                 , does hereby covenant that he
will, at his cost and expense, complete all improvements shown on said
preliminary plat and the Drawings and specifications within a period to two (2)
years from the date hereof.
   The undersigned does further state that,                    , a licensed
engineer, has estimated the cost of such improvements at approximately $
          .
   NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the acceptance and final approval of the
said preliminary plat, the undersigned subdivider does hereby enter into the
following bond:
   KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that                         of the
                         , County of                       and the State of
                     is bound to the Village of Heyworth in the penal sum of $
               lawful money of the United States, for payment of which we, and
each of us, bind ourselves and our heirs, executors, and administrators,
jointly and severally by these presents.
   The condition of this obligation is such that if the
                          subdivider satisfactorily completes the construction
of improvements shown on the said preliminary plat and the Drawings and
specifications with regard to said subdivision within a period of two (2) years
from the date hereof and repairs any damage to same caused by faulty materials
or workmanship for a period of one (1) year after the final inspection and
conditional acceptance of said improvements by the Village of Heyworth,
Illinois, and reimburses the Village for any and all engineering fees, attorney
fees, litigation expenses, court costs and other related expenses incurred by
the Village in enforcing or defending the terms and provisions of the Agreement
and Bond or any Letter of Credit related hereto, whether a default has been
declared or otherwise, and the Board of Trustees of said Village pass an
ordinance or resolution releasing said Bond, then this obligation is to be void
and of no effect; otherwise, it is to remain in full force and effect.
The undersigned                              , as Principal, and as Surety, do
hereby, by these presents, agree that the Village has a bondable interest in
the construction of the improvements shown in the plat and specifications of
                                        subdivision.
   Witness our hands and seals IN WITNESS THEREOF, the Subdivider has caused
this Bond to be executed and dated this            day of             , 20   .
   ATTEST:       
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
   )ss.
COUNTY OF MCLEAN   )
   [NOTARY STATEMENT, SIGNATURE, AND SEAL]
(Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
12-4-7: MINOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The minor subdivision review and approval process is intended
to expedite and to minimize public and private costs for the review of
subdivisions which have little or no required public improvements, which will
not likely negatively impact surrounding property in a manner significantly
different than if the property had not been subdivided, and thus, which do not
require the economic development committee and the board of trustees to make
policy decisions.
   B.   Eligibility Criteria: A minor subdivision is a subdivision of land into
three (3) or fewer lots that meets the following eligibility criteria:
      1.   The subdivision does not require, under these subdivision
regulations, the design or construction of any major public improvements other
than utility service connections and on site stormwater drainage and detention.
      2.   The subdivision does not contain any major public stormwater
drainage facilities.
      3.   The subdivision contains lots, all of which front on an existing
street or roadway, and does not involve the extension of any new street,
roadway, or easement of access.
      4.   The subdivision is located within the village or is otherwise the
subject of an annexation agreement which requires and sets forth the conditions
of its future annexation to the village.
      5.   The subdivision is in conformity with the village comprehensive plan
and zoning ordinance of the village or the county, whichever is applicable.
      6.   The subdivision is otherwise in conformity with all applicable laws
and regulations, unless previously waived by the entity with jurisdiction.
   C.   Exemption From Certain Submission Phases: Subdivisions that meet the
eligibility requirements for a minor subdivision are exempt from the following
submission phases otherwise regulated by this chapter:
      1.   Preliminary plat review and approval phase (section
12-4-3 of this chapter).
      2.   Approval of engineering drawings and specifications (section
12-4-5 of this chapter).
   D.   Submission Of Plat:
      1.   Subdividers shall submit the following to the chair of the village
economic development committee:
         a.   Three (3) copies of the final plat, seven (7) calendar days prior
to any regular meeting of the economic development committee.
         b.   The submittal or resubmittal of a final plat for a subdivision
within the corporate limits of the village or within the one and one-half (11/
2) mile extraterritorial jurisdictional area of the village shall be
accompanied by a fee as provided in section
12-3-4 of this title.
         c.   For those submissions involving annexation agreements, the
applicable application fee shall be as provided in section
12-3-4 of this title. The check shall be made payable to the village. (Ord.
2009-99, 8-24-2009)
         d.   A notarized certification (see sample form approved by the
village) by the owner, including all attachments thereto. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-
2009; amd. 2011 Code)
         e.   Not less than one copy of each of the following documents:
            (1)   All covenants, agreements, and deed restrictions which are to
be imposed by the subdivider on future owners of lots within the subdivision
once approved.
            (2)   A notarized certification by the owner and by the mortgage
holder of record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and
other public areas, and any restrictions as to usage, buildings, occupancy,
etc. See example form at section
12-7-2 of this title.
            (3)   Certification from the county clerk that all taxes and
special assessments due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full
as required by statutes.
            (4)   Certification from the village treasurer that all special
assessments due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full (not
required for a subdivision out of the village limits).
            (5)   Any required floodplain development permit or applicable
letter of map revision. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
      2.   Subdividers shall submit two (2) copies of the final plat to the
village engineer seven (7) calendar days prior to any regular meeting of the
economic development committee. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      3.   Subdividers shall submit one copy of the final plat to the village
public works superintendent at any time prior to the economic development
committee meeting designated for consideration of the final plat for approval.
      4.   Subdividers may also submit additional copies of the final plat for
the purpose of obtaining copies of executed final plats, pending village board
approval. The additional copies of the final plat shall remain the property of
the subdivider. See section
12-4-6 of this chapter.
   E.   Required Information: The final plat shall contain or be accompanied by
the information herein specified and shall comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   General:
         a.   The name of the subdivision.
         b.   The certificate of a registered land surveyor.
         c.   The date of preparation, scale and north arrow. The scale and
size of the plat shall be such that a fifty percent (50%) size photographic
reduction will not impair the details. Plats in several sections are
permissible. No sheet larger than twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24"
x 36") shall be submitted. The plat shall be presented at a scale of one inch
to one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger; except, that a different scale may
be used if approved during the preliminary plat phase. Lettering on the full
size plat shall be all capitals of not less than one-tenth inch (1/10") in
height. The plat shall be legible without magnification.
         d.   The location and position of the subdivision indicated in each of
the following ways as applicable:
            (1)   By quarter section, township, range, meridian, county, and
state.
            (2)   By distances and bearings from astronomic or assumed north
and angles with reference to a corner or corners established in the United
States public land survey.
            (3)   By a written legal description of the exterior boundaries of
the land as surveyed and divided.
         e.   The plat shall comply with the current Illinois Compiled
Statutes. Information which shall appear on the plat or on subsidiary documents
is as follows:
            (1)   Location of subdivision relative to village limits.
            (2)   The effect of stormwater runoff on other potentially
developable land and the county's streams and open drainage channels, and a
subsidiary drainage plat showing the topographical and profile plats, with a
signed statement by a professional engineer and the owner stating that to the
best of their knowledge and belief, the drainage and surface water drainage
will not be changed by the subdivision, or if surface water drainage will be
changed, reasonable provision has been made for collection and diversion of
such waters into public areas, or drainage which the subdivider has the right
to use, and that such surface waters will be planned for in accordance with
generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the likelihood of
damage to adjoining property because of the construction of the subdivision.
            (3)   The following notation shall appear on the face of the plat:
THE PROPERTY COVERED BY THIS SUBDIVISION (IS) (IS NOT) LOCATED WITHIN A FLOOD
HAZARD AREA (ZONE A), AS DETERMINED BY THE FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
(PANEL NUMBER, TITLE, AND DATE OF FEMA STUDY).
         f.   The final plat shall be drawn with ink on a stable plastic film.
         g.   The final plat approval certificate. See subsection
12-4-6H of this chapter for the final plat approval certificate form.
      2.   Detailed Information:
         a.   Boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by solid
heavy line and the total acreage encompassed thereby. The plat shall clearly
indicate all streets, alleys, blocks, lots, parcels, easements, and rights of
way. Accurate angular and linear dimensions shall be shown to describe and/or
reproduce any of these features.
         b.   Abutting street lines of platted, adjoining subdivisions shown in
their correct location by broken (dashed) lines.
         c.   The description and location of all subdivision and public land
system survey monuments.
         d.   A consecutive numbering system for all lots and blocks.
         e.   Location and names of all existing or prior platted streets or
other public ways, railroads and utility rights of way, parks and other public
open spaces, permanent easements or prior platted lots within and adjacent to
the subdivision.
         f.   A graphic representation of the minimum setback lines on all lots
and parcels, and a notation of the distance between such lines and the street
line, or lot line.
         g.   Pipes or other equivalent physical markers shall be placed at
each lot corner. No pipe or rod monument shall be less than one-half inch (1/
2") in diameter, standard weight water pipe (inside diameter) or deformed
reinforcing rod at least thirty inches (30") long. Iron pipes encased in
concrete at least four inches by four inches by forty two inches (4" x 4" x
42"), or equivalent, markers shall be placed at any two (2) corners of all new
subdivisions, in accordance with the Illinois professional land surveyor act of
1989 1 . All monuments shall be imprinted with the registration number of the
surveyor making the survey and shall be described on the plat.
      3.   Approval Of Final Plat By State: Approval of the final plat by the
Illinois department of transportation if the subdivision adjoins or is adjacent
to a state maintained highway.
      4.   Approval Of Final Plat By County Engineer: Approval of the final
plat by the county engineer if the subdivision adjoins or is adjacent to a
county highway.
      5.   Approval Of Final Plat By Township Road District: Approval of the
final plat by the township road district if the subdivision is outside of the
village limits.
   F.   Annexation Of Property:
      1.   Unless the village and the owner have entered into an annexation
agreement providing otherwise or the subject property is otherwise already
located within village boundaries and is part of the village, the owner shall
petition to have the subject property annexed to the village.
      2.   The petition for annexation shall be submitted on or before
submission of the final plat.
      3.   See title 13 of this code for the requirements and regulations
governing the approval process for annexations.
   G.   Approval Or Disapproval Of Final Plat:
      1.   The economic development committee and the village engineer shall
concurrently review the final plat for compliance with this title.
      2.   If all of the above requirements have been satisfied, the chair of
the economic development committee will present the final plat to the committee
at the next regular meeting and make one of the following recommendations:
         a.   Recommend disapproval of the final plat.
         b.   Recommend approval of the final plat.
         c.   Recommend approval of the final plat, subject to minor
modifications.
      3.   If the economic development committee recommends disapproval of the
final plat, the reason for denial shall be clearly set forth and communicated
in writing to the subdivider.
      4.   If the economic development committee recommends to the village
board of trustees approval of the final plat, it shall be so executed at that
time. The original plat and two (2) copies shall be executed by the chair of
the village economic development committee. Any additional final plats provided
by the subdivider must also be executed at that time. See subsection
12-4-6H of this chapter for the final plat approval certificate form.
      5.   The chair of the economic development committee shall then present
the final plat to the village board of trustees at its next regular meeting and
inform them of the chair's recommendation.
   H.   Village Board Action:
      1.   The village board of trustees shall not give final approval to any
proposed subdivision until:
         a.   The economic development committee has recommended approval or
disapproval of the final plat.
         b.   All statutorily required approvals by other governmental agencies
have been received.
      2.   The village board of trustees, after receiving recommendations from
the economic development committee, shall then consider the final plat of the
proposed subdivision. At that time, the village board of trustees shall approve
or disapprove the final plat and shall clearly state their reasons for their
actions.
      3.   In the event the village board of trustees disapproves the plat, the
subdivider has one year from the date of such disapproval to make the
corrections and resubmit to the village board of trustees; otherwise, the prior
approval of the economic development committee and/or the approval of the
village engineer shall become null and void.
      4.   If the village board of trustees approves the final plat, it shall
be so executed at that time by the mayor and the village clerk. The original
final plat and two (2) copies must be executed. Any additional final plats
provided by the subdivider must also be executed at that time. See subsection
12-4-6H of this chapter for the final plat approval certificate form.
      5.   After approval of the final plat, drawings and specifications and
receipt of all supporting documents by the village board of trustees, the final
plat may be recorded by the subdivider with the county recorder of deeds within
one year of the date of approval; otherwise, the final plat and approval shall
become void. The village retains the option to require that a representative of
the village be present when the subdivider records the plat. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-
24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
12-4-8: CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Standards And Specifications: Improvements required and/or regulated by
this title shall be constructed in accordance with the following (where and if
the provisions of these documents conflict, the stricter of the regulations
shall apply):
      1.   Adopted engineering drawings and specifications.
      2.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT,
latest edition.
      3.   "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction",
latest edition.
      4.   Standards, requirements and regulations set forth in this title.
      5.   Other applicable ordinances of the village.
   B.   Responsibility For Costs: All required improvements shall be made by
the developer, at the developer's expense, without reimbursement by the
village; except, that as may be allowed under state law, the developer may form
or cause to be formed a special district or districts to construct and finance
the construction of required public improvements, excluding lot developments on
individual lots. If the subdivider does form or cause to be formed a special
district for the purposes identified in this subsection, the village shall not
release the subdivider from its obligations under any subdivision improvement
agreement nor shall the village release any security, in whole or in part,
until the special district has sold bonds or otherwise certifies to the village
that it has an absolute right to raise revenues sufficient to construct,
maintain, and warrant the quality of the required public improvements.
   C.   Commencement Of Construction:
      1.   Construction may commence only after the engineering drawings and
specifications have been approved by the village engineer and the subdivider
has received a letter from the village engineer formalizing said approval.
      2.   Construction shall not commence until all required permits are
obtained, all fees are paid to the permitting agencies and to the village, and
all the required forms have been submitted and approved. See subsection
12-4-3H of this chapter.
      3.   The subdivider shall furnish the village public works superintendent
two (2) sets of engineering drawings and specifications prior to commencement
of any construction operations.
      4.   Construction performed prior to approval of the final plat shall be
at the risk of the subdivider.
      5.   If construction of the improvements was commenced prior to approval
of the engineering drawings and specifications, the developer shall pay a
penalty fee as provided in section
12-3-4 of this title.
   D.   Development Schedule: A development schedule shall be submitted to the
village engineer prior to commencement of construction. As events warrant, an
updated schedule shall be resubmitted to the village engineer. The development
schedule should indicate the following:
      1.   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin.
      2.   The stages in which the project will be built and the approximate
dates when construction of each stage can be expected to begin.
      3.   The approximate dates when the development of each of the stages in
the development will be completed.
      4.   The area and location of common open space that will be provided at
each stage.
   E.   Modifications:
      1.   If, in the course of construction, the subdivider wishes to
significantly modify (as determined by the village engineer) the size, type,
quality, quantity and/or location of any or all of the improvements required or
regulated by this title, the subdivider's engineer shall submit a written
change request to the village engineer for review and written approval prior to
proceeding with installation of the modified improvement.
      2.   Minor field changes, based upon field conditions, that do not impact
the suitability or performance of the improvements shall not require advance
review of the village engineer.
      3.   Verbal requests shall be followed by written documentation within
two (2) days.
   F.   Construction Observation And Testing:
      1.   Construction Observation:
         a.   The degree of engineering observations during actual construction
operations (as contrasted with preparatory and cleanup operation, for example)
shall be one hundred percent (100%) during storm sewer, sanitary sewer, water
main, force main, and pavement construction. The observation shall be performed
by the developer's engineer or by a person working under the direction of the
developer's engineer. All construction shall be performed in accordance with
the approved engineering drawings and specifications, with an observer present
as stated herein, or the village engineer shall recommend stopping all
construction operations.
         b.   The observation by the developer's engineer shall be adequate to
ensure that all work complies with the standards and specifications listed in
subsection A of this section.
         c.   The village public works superintendent shall perform daily
construction observation or as necessary to ensure that storm sewer, sanitary
sewer, water main, force main, and pavement construction is performed in
compliance with the standards and specifications listed in subsection A of this
section.
         d.   The village engineer shall perform weekly observation or as
necessary to ensure that storm sewer, sanitary sewer, water main, force main,
and pavement construction is performed in compliance with the standards and
specifications listed in subsection A of this section.
      2.   Construction Testing:
         a.   Tests required by this title shall be performed solely by
independent testing laboratories, the subdivider's engineer or qualified
personnel employed by the subdivider's engineer, and shall be performed at the
subdivider's expense.
         b.   The sampling frequency and basis of construction testing shall be
in conformance with the "Project Procedures Guide", IDOT, latest edition.
         c.   The subdivider shall direct that the results of required tests be
mailed or delivered to the village engineer immediately upon completion of the
tests and that no test results be withheld from the village.
   G.   Time Periods For Construction: The subdivider shall complete
construction of all subdivision improvements in accordance with the approved
drawings and specifications within two (2) years of the date the village
approves the final plat of the subdivision. At the subdivider's request, the
board of trustees may extend the time period in which to complete the
construction for an additional one year if the board of trustees finds that
such an extension is consistent with the public welfare. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-
2009)
12-4-9: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Compliance Required: The procedure for acceptance of the public
improvements by the village is stated herein. The village engineer shall not
recommend approval of the improvements to the board of trustees until all of
the information submitted is in accordance with the procedures herein stated.
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   The developer's engineer shall conduct an inspection of the
constructed improvements and shall identify any incomplete work or deficiencies
in the construction work. A copy of the list which identifies incomplete,
deficient, or defective work shall be provided to the village.
      2.   Upon completion of the construction work needed to address and
correct items on said list, the developer's engineer shall notify the village
engineer and the village that the improvements are substantially complete and
ready for final observation by the village. The notification shall be
accompanied by any testing results and documents required to verify compliance
with ordinance requirements during construction.
      3.   Within approximately two (2) weeks of notification of substantial
completion, the village engineer shall conduct a final observation of the
constructed improvements. The developer's engineer shall, at the request of the
village engineer, attend the final observation. At that time, the village
engineer will identify any additional defects, deficiencies, or incomplete
work. The developer shall correct the additional defects, deficiencies, or
incomplete work identified within a reasonable time thereafter.
      4.   In the event that the final inspection identifies a significant
number (i.e., more than 20) of additional defects, deficiencies, or incomplete
work items, the final inspection shall be repeated to verify completion of the
corrective construction activities. In the event that a second final inspection
is required, the village clerk shall bill the subdivider for the village cost
for the second inspection and any subsequent inspections necessitated by the
subdivider's failure to construct improvements in accordance with approved
engineering drawings and specifications and this title. Such costs shall be
based on the actual out of pocket costs incurred by the village. The
subdivider's construction performance bond shall not be released until the
village has been reimbursed for these costs.
   C.   Engineer's Certificate:
      1.   Before the completed improvements are approved or accepted by the
village, the subdivider's engineer shall furnish the village engineer three (3)
copies of a completion certificate form approved by the village that is
certified from a licensed engineer which states the improvements comply with
all requirements of the approved engineering drawings and specifications and
are free from all defects or deficiencies.
      2.   The developer's engineer, who will certify the construction of the
improvements, shall not have an ownership interest in the subdivision or be a
regular employee of the subdivider.
   D.   Record Drawings:
      1.   After completion of the project and prior to acceptance by the
village board of trustees, the subdivider's engineer shall furnish the village
engineer three (3) complete sets of record drawings, with each sheet clearly
marked as such and dated in the lower right hand corner. These drawings shall
indicate the final location of all improvements.
      2.   The record drawings shall contain record data concerning the
construction of all public facilities.
         a.   Rim elevations, invert elevations, and gradients shall be
provided for all sewers.
         b.   The location and invert elevation of all sanitary sewer service
lines shall be provided.
         c.   The depth and location of all water mains and force mains shall
be provided.
         d.   Valve boxes shall be located.
         e.   Operation and maintenance manuals shall be provided for lift
stations or other equipment.
         f.   Pavement elevations and gradients shall be shown.
         g.   Ground surface elevations along swales and within lots shall be
provided.
         h.   The locations of all buried utilities installed by the contractor
or the utility company (i.e., gas lines, buried telephone, electric, cable
television, etc.) shall also be plotted and shown on the record drawings.
   E.   Maintenance Bond:
      1.   The subdivider must also furnish the chair of the economic
development committee, as a condition of acceptance of the public improvements,
a maintenance bond, in the amount equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the
estimated costs of the public improvements in said subdivision, in a form
approved by the village and as specified for construction performance bonds
described in subsection
12-4-6D of this chapter.
      2.   The condition of the maintenance bond shall be that the principal
shall guarantee maintenance of the public improvements for a period of one year
from the release of the construction bond. The village board of trustees shall
release maintenance bonds and the surety thereon upon satisfaction of the
conditions of the bond.
      3.   The subdivider shall maintain all subdivision improvements free from
defects for a period of one year after the date the board of trustees accepts
the subdivision improvements.
      4.   A defect which may be repaired is:
         a.   Any failure of a subdivision improvement to operate in
conformance with this title during the maintenance period; or
         b.   The appearance of any defect in a subdivision improvement which
is discovered during an inspection of the improvement made by village personnel
within a reasonable period of time after the subdivider's request for the
release of the maintenance portion of the bond or at any time prior to that
inspection; or
         c.   The failure to design and construct a subdivision improvement
required by this title and not previously waived, the need for which is unknown
at the time of the approval of the drawings and which is discovered prior to
the end of the maintenance period.
         d.   "Free of defects" means that all subdivision improvements are
functioning in accordance with the purpose for which they were designed and
that the improvements have not deteriorated other than to the extent of normal
wear.
   F.   Offer Of Irrevocable Conveyance Of Improvements: The subdivider must
also furnish the chair of the economic development committee, as a condition of
acceptance of the public improvements, an offer of irrevocable conveyance on a
form approved by the village.****
   G.   Bill Of Sale: The subdivider must also furnish the chair of the
economic development committee, as a condition of acceptance of the public
improvements, a bill of sale. The bill of sale shall serve as a means of
clarification of ownership when the subdivider dedicates public improvements to
the village. The bill of sale shall be in a form acceptable to the village
attorney.
   H.   Engineer Recommendation: Within approximately two (2) weeks of receipt
of the record drawings, engineer's certificate of completion, and all
supporting documentation, the village engineer shall submit a recommendation to
the village board of trustees concerning acceptance of the subdivision
improvements.
   I.   Village Board Action: The board of trustees shall review the materials
and information submitted within a reasonable time thereafter, and shall
accept, conditionally accept, or reject the completed improvements, and shall
clearly state the reasons for their actions.
      1.   If the improvements are accepted, the construction performance bond
shall be returned, and the one year warranty period shall commence.
      2.   If the improvements are conditionally accepted, the amount of the
surety for the construction performance bond may be reduced to the value of the
remaining improvements, and the contractor shall continue work towards
completion of those improvements. For the portions of the work accepted, the
subdivider shall provide a maintenance bond, and the one year warranty period
for the accepted work shall commence.
      3.   If the improvements are rejected, the board of trustees shall
indicate the reasons for the rejection.
      4.   Use of the improvements by the public or maintenance of the
improvements by any public entity, including, but not limited to, the village
and the township road district, shall not constitute acceptance of any or all
of the required improvements. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
12-4-10: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   No building permit shall be issued for the final ten percent (10%) of
the lots in a subdivision, or if ten percent (10%) is less than two (2), for
the final two (2) lots of a subdivision, until all public improvements required
by the village board for the subdivision have been fully completed, and the
village has accepted the developer's offer(s) to dedicate the improvements.
   B.   No occupancy for any building in the subdivision will be allowed prior
to the completion of the required public improvements and the acceptance of the
dedication of those improvements by the village.
   C.   See the village comprehensive building and development regulations for
additional requirements for the issuance of building permits and certificate of
occupancy 1 . (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. Title 10, chapters 3 and 5 of this code.
12-4-11: RESUBDIVIDING AND REPLATTING RECORDED LOTS; VACATION OF PLATS:
   A.   General Requirements: All regulations, procedures and standards made
applicable herein to original subdividing shall also apply to the resubdividing
and replatting of a plat or parts thereof, as provided by this title.
Applications for resubdividing or replatting shall be accompanied by a fee as
provided in section
12-3-4 of this title.
   B.   Resubdivision: For any change in a map of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat, if such change affects any street layout shown on such map,
or area reserved thereon for public use, or any lot line, or if it affects any
map or plan legally reached prior to the adoption of any regulations
controlling the subdivision, such parcel shall be approved by the economic
development committee and the village board of trustees by the same procedure,
rules and regulations as for review and approval of a subdivision.
   C.   Subdivisions Where Future Resubdivision Is Indicated: Whenever a parcel
of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or more lots
containing more than one acre of land and there are indications that such lots
will eventually be resubdivided into small building sites, the economic
development committee and the village board of trustees may require that such
parcel of land allow for the future opening of streets and the ultimate
extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future opening and
extension of such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
   D.   Vacation Of Plats:
      1.   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner of the
premises, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a written
instrument, to which a copy of such plat shall be attached, declaring the same
to be vacated. Such an instrument shall be approved by the economic development
committee and the village board of trustees in like manner as plats of
subdivisions. The village board may reject any such instrument which abridges
or destroys any public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, streets,
or alleys.
      2.   Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved, and
recorded and filed in like manner as plats of subdivision; and being duly
recorded or filed, shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the
recording of the plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the
streets, alleys, and public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described
in such plat.
      3.   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
herein provided by all the owners of lots in such plat joining in the execution
of such writing. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
12-4-12: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Purpose And Objectives:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of the planned unit development provisions is
to encourage and allow more creative and imaginative design for land
development than is possible under the more conventional zoning and subdivision
regulations. The planned development also provides for more effective use of
the land, better urban amenities, protection of open space, and likewise
protecting valuations of adjoining properties. The process is intended to be an
alternative to the conventional subdivision of land and lot by lot development
contemplated by this title.
      2.   Objectives: Some of the objectives which may be obtained through the
use of the planned unit development procedure include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         a.   To permit a maximum choice in the types of environment available
to the public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the
strict application of the other sections of this title.
         b.   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that results in better design and development, with the
inclusion of aesthetic amenities.
         c.   To encourage a pattern of development to preserve natural
vegetation, topographic and geological features, and environmentally
appropriate features.
         d.   To create a method for the permanent preservation of common open
space for the continued use and enjoyment of the residents of the development.
         e.   To create limitations or restrictions such as screens, fences and
plantings, limitation of access to certain streets, and other considerations
for the protection of adjoining property and the maintenance of valuation
thereof.
         f.   To encourage a land use which promotes the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare.
         g.   To authorize a combination of existing lots or resubdivision of
the same for the total planned development.
         h.   A combination and coordination of architectural styles, building
forms, and building relationships with a possible mixing of different urban
uses in an innovative overall design.
         i.   The use of public input and participation in the design and
development of innovative and creative land use proposals.
      3.   Unified Control: The planned unit development may consist of
conventionally subdivided lots; provided, that:
         a.   The requirements of the zoning ordinance (title 11 of this code)
are met with respect to each lot included; and
         b.   That the platted lots are maintained in unified control and
unsubdivided property are maintained in separate ownership but unified control.
   B.   Statute Authority; General Procedure: Planned unit development is
authorized pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-1.1. A public
hearing pursuant to said statute will be required for applicants presenting a
plan as hereafter provided, or in the alternative, the village board may
consider restrictions and conditions of a requested change of zoning on
existing subdivided land at the hearing or hearings on the petition for change
of zoning pursuant to public notice as required by existing ordinance
regulations.
   C.   Designation Of Planned Unit Development Area:
      1.   The minimum size for development of a planned unit development shall
be one acre.
      2.   The designation of planned unit development may be added to any
tract of more than one acre which is presently zoned residential, commercial,
or industrial, or is under consideration for a change of zoning. The owner and/
or petitioner of the change of zoning for a particular described tract must
consent to the additional restriction and designation of "planned unit
development" before a tract can be so designated. The tract so designated will
be identified as residential (or commercial or industrial) planned unit
development.
      3.   The uses permitted under the specific zoning designation will not be
changed, but setback lines, parking, and other such restrictions, requirements,
and limitations of the zoning ordinance (title 11 of this code) as well as
those general standards enumerated in this title will be determined pursuant to
the above provisions after public hearing.
      4.   Such designation of "planned unit development" as affixed to any
tract, by determination of the village board of trustees, cannot be removed
without petition and public hearing in accordance with amendments of the zoning
districts of the village. Such tract or tracts shall also be designated as
above on the official zoning map of the village.
   D.   Submission Phases: Before developing a tract of land within the
corporate limits of the village as a planned unit development, the owner or
developer shall comply with the review process as follows:
      1.   Optional informal discussion phase.
      2.   Preliminary planned unit development plan and approval phase.
      3.   Approval of engineering drawings and specifications.
      4.   Final plat review, public hearing, and approval phase.
      5.   Recording phase.
   E.   Informal Discussion Phase (Optional):
      1.   The purpose of the informal discussion phase, insofar as possible,
is to guide and assist the owner or developer in his future decisions with a
view to avoiding later difficulties and delays. This is an optional forum by
which the owner or developer may receive early feedback prior to incurring the
costs and time of detailed subdivision design and engineering.
      2.   The procedures associated with the informal discussion phase shall
be as enumerated in section
12-4-2 of this chapter.
   F.   Preliminary Planned Unit Development Plan And Approval Phase:
      1.   Before developing a tract of land within the corporate limits of the
village as a planned unit development, the owner or developer shall prepare a
preliminary planned unit development plan and the supporting documentation
required by this title.
      2.   The requirements of the preliminary planned unit development plan
shall be as enumerated in section
12-4-3 of this chapter including, but not limited to, submission procedures,
application fees, and information required on the preliminary plat; except,
that under no circumstances shall the requirement for a preliminary planned
unit development plan be waived by the economic development committee.
      3.   The procedures and considerations by which the economic development
committee and village board of trustees shall consider the preliminary planned
unit development plan for approval shall be as enumerated in section
12-4-3 of this chapter.
   G.   Approval Of Engineering Drawings And Specifications:
      1.   The owner or developer shall cause engineering drawings and
specifications to be prepared for all improvements required or regulated by
this title and shall be in conformance with the requirements enumerated in
section
12-4-5 of this chapter.
      2.   The procedures by which the engineering drawings and specifications
shall be reviewed and executed shall be as enumerated in section
12-4-5 of this chapter.
   H.   Final Plat Review, Public Hearing And Approval Phase:
      1.   Requirements: The requirements of the final plat shall be as
enumerated in section
12-4-6 of this chapter including, but not limited to, application fees,
performance guarantee, petitioning for annexation, and information required on
the preliminary plat; except, that the review process shall be conducted in
accordance with the procedures hereafter provided.
      2.   Owner Or Developer Statement: The owner or developer shall also
furnish a statement as to the owner's intention of selling or leasing all or a
portion of the planned unit development after the project is developed. If
applicable, the conditions of sale and maintenance of such developed properties
shall be stipulated. For residential planned unit developments, the perpetual
maintenance of common open space shall be provided by a homeowners'
association. The articles of such an association shall prescribe the permitted
uses, state how maintenance costs are to be assessed, and shall be approved by
the village attorney prior to the final approval of the final plat. Any other
covenants, deed restrictions or other similar agreements between the applicant
and future owners shall also be presented. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
      3.   Mobile Home Or Mobile Home Park Fee: The submittal or resubmittal of
a planned unit development (be it within the corporate limits of the village,
or within the 11/2 mile extraterritorial jurisdictional area of the village),
which includes a "mobile home" or "mobile home park" (as such terms are defined
in section
11-3-2 of this code) shall be accompanied by an application fee as provided in
section
12-3-4 of this title. Checks shall be made payable to the village. The payment
of this fee shall be in addition to any other fees required by this title or
any other ordinance. (Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
      4.   Review Of Final Plat:
         a.   Considerations For Approval: The final plat for the proposed
planned unit development shall be considered for approval in accordance with
the following criteria:
            (1)   The definitions and goals as indicated herein.
            (2)   The minimum requirements as set forth herein.
            (3)   Compliance with the village land use plan.
         b.   Economic Development Committee Action:
            (1)   The economic development committee and the village engineer
shall concurrently review the final plat for compliance with this title.
            (2)   If all of the above requirements have been satisfied, the
chair of the economic development committee will make one of the following
recommendations:
               (A)   Recommend disapproval of the final plat.
               (B)   Recommend approval of the final plat.
               (C)   Recommend approval of the final plat, subject to minor
modifications.
            (3)   If the economic development committee recommends disapproval
of the final plat, the reason for denial shall be clearly set forth and
communicated in writing to the subdivider.
            (4)   If the economic development committee recommends approval of
the final plat, it shall be so executed at that time. The original plat and two
(2) copies shall be executed by the chair of the village economic development
committee. Any additional final plats provided by the subdivider must also be
executed at that time. See subsection
12-4-6H of this chapter for the final plat approval certificate form. Final
approval of the plat shall also be given by the village board of trustees, per
the process enumerated in subsection H4d of this section, before the plat may
be recorded.
         c.   Public Hearing:
            (1)   If the economic development committee recommends approval of
the final plat, the chair of the economic development committee shall set a
public hearing date in accordance with the usual procedures of the zoning board
of appeals for considering a conditional use.
            (2)   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing, the zoning
board of appeals shall recommend approval or disapproval or, at the request of
the owner or developer, continued discussion pertinent to the planned unit
development final plat.
         d.   Village Board Action:
            (1)   The village board of trustees shall not give final approval
to any proposed subdivision until:
               (A)   The economic development committee has recommended
approval or disapproval of the final plat.
               (B)   The village engineer has recommended approval or
disapproval of the subdivision improvement drawings and specifications.
               (C)   The zoning board of appeals has recommended approval or
disapproval of the final plat.
               (D)   The subdivider presents his guarantee in the amount and
form in accordance with this section and as approved by the village attorney.
               (E)   All statutorily required approvals by other governmental
agencies have been received.
            (2)   The village board of trustees, after receiving
recommendations from the economic development committee and the zoning board of
appeals, shall then consider the final plat of the proposed planned unit
development. At that time, the village board of trustees shall approve or
disapprove the final plat and shall clearly state the reasons for their
actions.
            (3)   In the event the village board of trustees disapproves the
plat, the subdivider has one year from the date of such disapproval to make the
corrections and resubmit to the village board of trustees; otherwise, the prior
approval of the economic development committee and/or the approval of the
zoning board of appeals shall become null and void.
            (4)   If the village board of trustees approves the final plat, it
shall be so executed at that time by the mayor and the village clerk. The
original final plat and two (2) copies must be executed. Any additional final
plats provided by the subdivider must also be executed at that time. See
subsection
12-4-6H of this chapter for the final plat approval certificate form.
            (5)   After approval of the final plat, drawings and specifications
and receipt of all supporting documents by the village board of trustees, the
final plat shall be recorded by the subdivider with the county recorder of
deeds within one year of the date of approval; otherwise, the final plat and
approval shall become void. The village retains the option to require that a
representative of the village be present when the subdivider records the plat.
(Ord. 2009-99, 8-24-2009)
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Compliance With Provisions
12-5-2: Waivers And Deferrals
12-5-3: Access
12-5-4: Easements
12-5-5: Streets And Alleys
12-5-6: Sidewalks
12-5-7: Excavations For Underground Piping
12-5-8: Water Distribution System
12-5-9: Sanitary Sewer System
12-5-10: Storm Drainage System
12-5-11: Erosion Control
12-5-12: Street Lighting
12-5-13: Traffic Control
12-5-14: Buildings Within Proposed Major Street Extensions
12-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
The standards and specifications for submitting the engineering drawings and
specifications for the subdivision are stated herein. The village engineer
shall not recommend approval of the drawings and specifications to the board of
trustees until all of the information submitted is in accordance with the
standards and procedures herein stated. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-2: WAIVERS AND DEFERRALS:
In the event the developer deems it desirable to deviate from standards of this
title, by waiving or deferring such standards, the developer must submit, in
writing, a request to the village engineer stating the requested waiver or
deferral, degree of deviation and the reasons why such waiver or deferral is
necessary or desirable. The waiver or deferral must be approved in writing by
the board of trustees prior to the completion of the final design work and
shall apply to that location and point in time only. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-3: ACCESS:
Provisions shall be made to grant access for future development of unplatted
adjacent land at intervals of not more than one-fourth (1/4) mile. This applies
to utilities as well as streets. Utilities and street stubs shall be extended
to the outer edge of the development, where applicable. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-
2007)
12-5-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utilities Easements:
      1.   Easements for public utilities shall be provided for the
installation of telephone, gas, electric, cable television and other utilities.
In general, an easement of sufficient width shall be required at locations as
designated and approved by the village engineer or as requested by the utility
companies.
      2.   More specifically, the following guidelines shall be followed:
         a.   Easements for sanitary and storm sewers less than twenty four
inches (24") in diameter shall be fifteen feet (15') in width, plus five feet
(5') for each additional utility other than a water main. Inclusion of a water
main shall require an additional ten feet (10') of easement dedication such
that there will be at least ten feet (10') of parallel clearance between any
sewer and a water main.
         b.   If sanitary and storm sewers are greater than twenty four inches
(24") in diameter, the requirements set forth in this subsection shall apply,
and there shall be an additional two feet (2') in width per additional twelve
inches (12") in diameter.
         c.   If sanitary and storm sewers are buried greater than fifteen feet
(15'), additional easement width may be required.
         d.   Easements for water mains shall be fifteen feet (15') in width,
plus five feet (5') for each additional utility other than a sewer. If a sewer
is included, the requirements of this subsection shall govern.
         e.   Unless otherwise provided, a minimum ten foot (10') rear easement
shall be dedicated for private utilities within all developments zoned
residential.
         f.   Unless otherwise provided, a minimum five foot (5') front
easement shall be dedicated for private utilities within all developments. The
inclusion of public utilities shall require an easement of width as dictated by
this subsection.
   B.   Maintenance Easements: Maintenance easements of sufficient width shall
be provided around storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water mains, and other
similar utilities when these facilities are located outside of the public
street right of way. The width of the easement shall be established by working
needs. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-5: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The classification and location of all streets shall conform to the
village comprehensive plan, including the major streets plan, and this section,
and shall be planned in relation to existing and proposed streets,
topographical conditions, public safety and convenience, and anticipated land
use.
      2.   Each lot or parcel of ground within a new subdivision shall be
adjacent to a public street.
      3.   The street system in each new subdivision shall continue and extend
existing connecting streets in adjoining subdivisions; except, that minor
streets shall not be required to cross major streets unless such continuation
and crossing is deemed necessary to promote pedestrian and/or vehicular
circulation and safety.
      4.   The street system in each new subdivision shall be extended and
dedicated to any property adjacent to the subdivision, except those instances
in which the adjacent property is not and cannot be subdivided. (Ord. 2007-19,
5-21-2007)
      5.   No private streets shall be permitted in the village without prior
approval from the village board of trustees. (Ord. 2011-22, 6-6-2011)
      6.   When a subdivision borders on and has lots fronting on or contiguous
to a present or proposed arterial street, as depicted or described in the
comprehensive plan and/or major streets plan, necessary traffic service to lots
of the subdivision bordering such facility shall be provided by a marginal
access street, local street, or collector street, unless otherwise authorized
by the village engineer.
      7.   Access to an arterial street from a marginal access street, local
street, or collector street shall be taken at approximately one-fourth (1/4)
mile intervals, unless subdivision frontage is less than one-fourth (1/4) mile,
in which case, the subdivision shall have no more than one access point to the
arterial street, at a location to be approved by the village board of trustees.
   B.   Rights Of Way Dedications:
      1.   Subdividers shall dedicate rights of way for streets and easements,
and if planned, alleys, in all new subdivisions.
      2.   When the subdivider owns the land on both sides of a proposed
street, the entire right of way for the street shall be dedicated by the
subdivider.
      3.   When the subdivider owns the land on only one side of an existing
street, the existing right of way of which is narrower than that required by
this title or the comprehensive plan/major streets plan, the subdivider shall
dedicate additional right of way which lies between the centerline of the
existing right of way and the outside edge of the additional right of way equal
to at least one-half (1/2) of the required right of way width.
      4.   Minimum dedicated street rights of way shall be:
 
Arterial                     80 feet
Collector                    70 feet
Local                        60 feet
Cul-de-sac radius            50 feet
Commercial/industrial alleys 24 feet
Residential alleys           20 feet
 
   C.   Street Names And Addresses:
      1.   Street Names: Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment or
continuation of existing streets already named shall bear the name of such
existing streets. The board of trustees may waive this requirement if it is in
the best interest of the village to do so. In no case shall the name for a
proposed street duplicate existing street names that are not continuous with
it, irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, road, boulevard,
drive, place, or court, or an abbreviation thereof, or minor variations in
spelling. Street names may be subject to the review of the Heyworth postmaster.
      2.   House Numbers: The house numbering system plan shall be submitted to
the village engineer. The house numbering system shall be in accordance with
the plan adopted by the village board, the Heyworth postmaster, the fire
protection district, and the county emergency services and disaster agency.
      3.   Signs: Street name signs shall be purchased and erected by the
subdivider at each street intersection within the subdivision, in accordance
with section
12-7-6, figure 10, of this title.
   D.   Design Of Streets:
      1.   Widths Of Streets:
         a.   Minimum pavement widths for streets (as measured from back to
back of curb) shall be:
 
Arterial                    51 feet
Collector1                  37 feet
Local                       28 feet
Cul-de-sac radius           40 feet
Commercial/industrial alley 20 feet
Residential alley           16 feet
 
   Note:
      1.    Includes all streets in areas zoned commercial and industrial.
         b.   All subdividers are required to construct a minimum twenty eight
foot (28') pavement width unless the project property line is the centerline of
a dedicated street right of way, in which case, the subdivider shall construct
one-half (1/2) of the required pavement width. If there is an existing street
pavement within the existing right of way, the village may cooperate with the
subdivider to upgrade the existing street pavement instead of constructing half
street improvements. The subdivider's contribution toward upgrade of the
existing street pavement shall be not less than the costs incurred to construct
at least a sixteen foot (16') width of pavement, and one-half (1/2) the costs
of street appurtenances including drainage and sidewalks.
         c.   If additional pavement width beyond the specified minimums and/or
additional thicknesses are required, the village may participate in the
additional cost.
      2.   Grades:
         a.   Maximum grade within fifty feet (50') of an intersection shall be
five percent (5%).
         b.   Pavement centerline profile grades shall be:
 
Minimum     0.40 percent
Maximum     10.00 percent
Cross slope 3/16 inch per foot minimum, 3.00 percent maximum
 
      3.   Intersecting Streets: Streets shall be designed to intersect as
close to a ninety degree (90°) angle as possible, and no two (2) streets shall
intersect at an angle of less than eighty degrees (80°).
      4.   Adjacent Existing Streets: Where an existing street is adjacent to
the subdivision, the subdivider shall improve the half of the street to conform
to these standards; except, that where the existing street is a county highway
or state highway, the village board may waive the requirements for street
improvements subject to concurrence by the entity having jurisdiction over the
roadway.
      5.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred fifty feet (150') shall not be permitted if the same can be reasonably
avoided and as authorized by the village engineer.
      6.   Horizontal Curves: Horizontal curves shall be gradual, having a
radius of at least two hundred fifty feet (250') at the centerline, except
where a lesser radius is, in the opinion of the village engineer, reasonably
safe and adequate for anticipated traffic conditions.
      7.   Intersection Returns: Radii at pavement intersections shall be
(measured to back of curb):
 
Arterial and collector thoroughfares 30 feet
Local or minor streets               25 feet
 
      8.   Sight Triangles: Sight triangles shall be provided via vehicular
access control at all intersections of local streets with collector or arterial
streets. Vehicular access control shall be not less than fifty feet (50') along
the local or subcollector street at an intersection with a collector street.
Vehicular access control shall be provided for not less than one hundred feet
(100') along the arterial street at intersections with other streets.
      9.   Cul-De-Sacs:
         a.   Cul-de-sacs shall be provided when a street in a new subdivision
is a permanent dead end street and cannot be continued to another street.
         b.   Cul-de-sacs in areas zoned residential shall have a minimum
pavement radius of forty feet (40') (measured to back of curb) where the entire
circle is paved. Cul-de-sacs in areas zoned commercial and industrial shall
have a minimum pavement radius of fifty feet (50').
         c.   Cul-de-sacs shall have a maximum length of one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') measured from the centerline of the intersecting street
to the center of the turnaround in areas zoned residential with single-family
lots. For areas zoned residential with multiple-family lots and for all other
zoning, cul-de-sacs shall have a maximum length of four hundred feet (400'),
unless in the opinion of the village board, projected traffic counts, the
topography of the land being subdivided or the physical situation of that land
makes such a restriction impractical.
         d.   Driveways shall not encompass more than fifty percent (50%) of
the curb on the bulb of a cul-de-sac street.
      10.   Specifications:
         a.   Pavement cross sections shall be as depicted on the details found
in section
12-7-6 of this title. All pavements shall be constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction",
IDOT, latest edition.
         b.   Pavements for streets shall be either portland cement concrete
pavement or bituminous concrete pavement in accordance with these standards.
         c.   All pavements shall be constructed with portland cement concrete
curbs and gutters. The shape of the curb and gutter shall conform to the
village standard curb and gutter type B (barrier) or type M (mountable). See
details in section
12-7-6 of this title.
      11.   Access Requirements And Restrictions:
         a.   Provisions shall be made to grant access for future development
of unplatted adjacent land at intervals of not more than one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         b.   Vehicular access control shall be provided to the maximum extent
possible along state and federal highways. Marginal access streets shall be
provided adjacent to arterial streets wherever possible.
      12.   Blocks:
         a.   Blocks shall not be less than four hundred feet (400') nor more
than eight hundred feet (800') in length except as the village board of
trustees considers necessary to secure efficient use of land or desired
features in street pattern.
         b.   In blocks six hundred feet (600') or more in length, the village
board may require a public crosswalk for pedestrian travel to extend entirely
across the block at the location deemed necessary. The crosswalk shall be
constructed of portland cement concrete in conformance with these standards for
sidewalks. The width of the concrete shall be six feet (6'), and the crosswalk
shall be located on a ten foot (10') commons area.
         c.   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two (2) tiers of lots,
except where fronting on major streets or prevented by topographical conditions
or size of the property, in which case, the village board will approve the
single tier of lots.
   E.   Alleys:
      1.   Required, Permitted And Prohibited Alleys:
         a.   Alleys may be provided for lots or parcels of ground intended for
business, commercial or industrial uses.
         b.   Alleys shall not be allowed for lots intended for residential
uses.
         c.   No dead end alleys will be permitted except under special
conditions as authorized by the village engineer and the village board.
         d.   No private alleys will be permitted except under special
conditions as authorized by the village engineer and the village board.
      2.   Construction Requirements: The alley pavement shall be constructed
in accordance with the minimum construction standards set for streets.
   F.   Subgrades:
      1.   The street pavement subgrade shall have sufficient stability to
accommodate construction traffic without excessive subgrade rutting or shoving.
All subgrade compaction and testing shall be in accordance with the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT, latest edition.
      2.   Existing topsoil shall be removed from the area of proposed street
pavement, plus two feet (2') outside the proposed back of curb. Removal shall
be to a depth as necessary to remove all organic material or ten inches (10"),
whichever is greater.
      3.   Street subgrades shall be compacted to not less than ninety five
percent (95%) of the standard laboratory density in accordance with the
applicable section of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", IDOT, latest edition.
      4.   Areas of subgrade that are changed in elevation by more than three
inches (3") after acceptance testing must be retested once final grade is
achieved. Subgrades which are subjected to a freeze/thaw cycle prior to paving
must be retested.
      5.   The suitability of all subgrades shall be tested via "proof rolling"
with a loaded tandem truck. Any soft subgrade areas which show rutting,
cracking, or rolling shall be reconditioned to provide a firm, suitable
subgrade. A representative of the village shall be present to assess the
suitability of the subgrade during proof rolling.
      6.   Any areas of street pavement subgrade which fail to meet or exceed
the compaction requirements or fail the proof rolling test shall be remedied to
achieve the required stability. Acceptable methods of remediation shall
include, but not be limited to, aeration and recompaction, undercut and
backfill, and lime treatment. The remedied areas must be retested and meet or
exceed the requirements specified in this section. Streets which do not meet
the minimum subgrade compaction requirements will not be accepted.
   G.   Pavement Materials:
      1.   Portland Cement Concrete:
         a.   All pavement designs must conform to the "Bureau Of Local Roads
And Streets Manual" and be authorized by the village engineer. The subdivider's
engineer shall provide pavement design calculations to verify compliance with
design thickness requirements.
         b.   Minimum design thickness shall be:
 
Local residential and cul-de-sac;    6 inch minimum thickness, nonreinforced
multiple-family residential alleys
Collector                            8 inch minimum thickness, nonreinforced
Commercial and industrial, including 8 inch minimum thickness, reinforced with
alleys                               welded wire fabric mesh or reinforcing
                                     steel
                                     The pavement design and thickness for a
                                     particular street shall be established
All other streets                    utilizing the current IDOT design
                                     standards for the particular situation and
                                     as authorized by the village engineer
 
         c.   All portland cement concrete pavement shall be underlain by a
minimum of ten inches (10") of crushed aggregate base.
         d.   Longitudinal construction joints shall be tied with no. 4
deformed tie bars, thirty inches (30") long at thirty inch (30") intervals. All
joint patterns are to be authorized by the village engineer.
         e.   Transverse construction joints shall be tied with smooth tie
bars, thirty inches (30") long at fifteen inch (15") intervals, in accordance
with the following schedule:
            (1)   For pavement thickness greater than eight inches (8"), the
nominal dowel diameter shall be one and a half inches (1.5").
            (2)   For pavement thickness less than eight inches (8") but
greater than seven inches (7"), the nominal dowel diameter shall be one and
one-fourth inches (1.25").
            (3)   For pavement thickness less than seven inches (7"), the
nominal dowel diameter shall be one inch (1").
         f.   Sawed contraction joints shall be provided at a maximum of
fifteen foot (15') intervals.
         g.   The portland cement concrete shall be constructed in accordance
with the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT,
latest edition, and meet the following requirements (where and if the
provisions of these documents conflict, the stricter of the regulations shall
apply):
            (1)   Have a minimum compressive strength of not less than three
thousand five hundred (3,500) psi or a minimum modulus of rupture of not less
than six hundred fifty (650) psi at an age of fourteen (14) days.
            (2)   Have a workable slump authorized by the village engineer, but
in no instance greater than three inches (3") for machine placed concrete and
no greater than four inches (4") for small areas of hand placed concrete. The
first truckload each day and at least every fourth truckload thereafter shall
be field tested.
            (3)   Concrete mix design shall be submitted to the village
engineer for review prior to beginning concrete construction operations; test
data from previous projects must accompany the mix design as verification of
the strength of the proposed mix. Mix designs must contain a minimum of five
hundred sixty four (564) pounds of cement per cubic yard of concrete.
            (4)   Be field tested for strength by an independent testing
laboratory during construction by taking beam or cylinder specimens at a
minimum rate of two (2) for every thirty (30) cubic yards of concrete poured,
with a minimum of two (2) for pours under thirty (30) cubic yards.
            (5)   Be cured by standard procedures, as authorized by the village
engineer.
            (6)   Be finished with a finishing machine authorized by the
village engineer. The machine shall be self-propelled, capable of striking off,
consolidating and finishing the concrete of the consistency required to the
proper crown and grade, or other method authorized by the village engineer.
            (7)   Be air entrained (5 to 7 percent), with the first truckload
each day, and every fourth truckload thereafter, field tested to verify the
entrainment.
         h.   Portland cement concrete pavements shall be protected from all
traffic (including construction equipment) for a period of not less than seven
(7) days, or when test cylinders indicate that the pavement has reached a
minimum compressive strength of three thousand five hundred (3,500) psi (650
psi minimum modulus of rupture).
         i.   Sawing of joints shall commence as soon as the concrete has
hardened sufficiently to permit sawing without excessive reveling, but no later
than ten (10) hours after the concrete has been placed. All joints shall be
sawed to a depth of one- fourth (1/4) of the thickness of the slab before
uncontrolled shrinkage cracking takes place. If necessary, the sawing
operations shall be carried on both during the day and night regardless of
weekends, holidays, or weather conditions.
         j.   The subdivider's engineer shall provide written documentation to
the village engineer as to the time when portland cement concrete is placed and
the time when saw cutting of joints takes place.
         k.   Joints in portland cement concrete pavement shall be cleaned and
filled with hot or cold poured joint sealer.
         l.   Expansion joints shall be provided at locations indicated on the
standard details in section
12-7-6 of this title. The location of all expansion joints shall be depicted
upon the street paving plan.
         m.   Joint pattern details shall be provided in the site engineering
drawings for all intersections, cul-de-sacs, and other unusual situations.
      2.   Bituminous Concrete:
         a.   All pavement designs must conform to the "Bureau Of Local Roads
And Streets Manual" and be authorized by the village engineer. The subdivider's
engineer shall provide pavement design calculations to verify compliance with
design thickness requirements.
         b.   Minimum design thickness shall be:
 
                                      2 lifts of 2 inch thickness of bituminous
                                      concrete surface course; plus sufficient
Local residential and bituminous cul- base course (minimum 10 inches)
de-sac; multiple-family residential   consisting of aggregate, bituminous
alleys                                aggregate mixture, or bituminous concrete
                                      binder to yield a minimum composite
                                      pavement structural number of 2.25
                                      2 lifts of 2 inch thickness of bituminous
                                      concrete surface course; plus sufficient
                                      base course (minimum 10 inches)
Collector                             consisting of aggregate, bituminous
                                      aggregate mixture, or bituminous concrete
                                      binder to yield a minimum composite
                                      pavement structural number of 2.5
                                      2 lifts of 2 inch thickness of bituminous
                                      concrete surface course; plus sufficient
                                      base course (minimum 10 inches)
Commercial and industrial, including  consisting of aggregate, bituminous
alleys                                aggregate mixture, or bituminous concrete
                                      binder to yield a minimum composite
                                      pavement structural number of 3.5. The
                                      pavement design and thickness shall be
                                      established utilizing IDOT design methods
 
         c.   The following equation reflects the pavement structure thickness
in terms of a structural number. The structural number is related to the
thickness of the various layers of the pavement structure as follows for
pavements with aggregate and stabilized base courses:
            Dt = a1D1 + a2D2 + a3D3
 
Where:   
         The structural number; a1, a2, and a3 are coefficients of relative
Dt     = strength of the surface course, base course, and subbase,
         respectively;
D1     = Thickness of surface course in inches;
D2     = Thickness of base course in inches; and
D3     = Thickness of subbase in inches
The coefficients a1, a2, and a3 are considered to be a measure of the relative
strength, as related to performance, of the surface course, base course, and
subbase materials, respectively. It is important to note that the value of a
coefficient for a particular layer of the pavement is not constant, but is
assumed to vary in accordance with the strength of the material to be used in
that layer, as indicated in the following figure:
   FIGURE - COEFFICIENT LIMITS FOR PAVEMENT STRUCTURE MATERIALS
Structure Materials Strength Requirements Coefficient Limits3
                    M.S.1 IBR psi2        a1 a2 a3
Structure Materials                            Strength         Coefficient
                                               Requirements     Limits3
                                               M.S.1  IBR psi2  a1   a2    a3
Bituminous surface:
    Class B road mix                                        0.20
    Class B plant mix (liquid asphalt)                      0.22
    Class B plant mix (asphalt cement)     900              0.30
    Class I                                1,700            0.40
Base course:
    Aggregate type B (uncrushed)                  50        0.10
    Aggregate type B (100 percent crushed)        80        0.13
    Aggregate type A                              80        0.13
    Lime stabilized mixture                           150   0.11
    Soil cement                                       300-       0.15-
                                                          500        0.20
    Cement aggregate (LR312)                          650        0.23
                                                         750        0.25
                                                         1,000      0.28
    Pozzuolanic                                                  0.28
    Asphalt stabilized (LR310) liquid asphalt                    0.18
    Bituminous aggregate mixture (LR311)   900-                  0.24-
                                               1,900                 0.33
    Bituminous mixture class I             1,700+                0.33
Subbase:
    Lime stabilized soil mixture                      100              0.12
    Granular material, type B                     30                   0.11
    Granular material, type A (uncrushed)         50                   0.12
    Granular material, type A (100 percent        80                   0.14
crushed)
 
Notes:
   1.    Marshall stability or equivalent.
   2.    7 day design compressive strength.
      3.      For materials with strengths other than that shown, the
coefficients may be determined from pages 5-8-97 through 5-8-102. Other
approved materials of similar strengths may be substituted for those listed in
the table.
         d.   In accordance with article 406 of the "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT, latest edition, the bituminous
concrete binder course and the bituminous concrete surface course shall be hot
mix asphalt, low ESAL or high ESAL, or as recommended by the village engineer
for a specific pavement design.
         e.   Bituminous materials must be produced at an IDOT approved plant.
         f.   An IDOT approved mix design specifications sheet must be provided
to and authorized by the village engineer prior to use of the bituminous
concrete mixture for pavement construction.
         g.   Aggregate base course shall be crushed stone, CA-6 or CA-10
gradation, and shall be type A. Aggregate base course shall be placed in lifts
not exceeding five inches (5"). Base course aggregate shall be treated with a
bituminous prime coat prior to the application of the bituminous concrete
surface course or binder course.
         h.   All pavement base courses, binder courses, and surface courses
shall be constructed in accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction", IDOT, latest edition, and shall be field tested for
proper compaction. Tests shall be at the rate of two (2) per lane per five
hundred feet (500'). Bituminous concrete binder and surface courses shall have
a minimum in place density of ninety three percent (93%), with no individual
test below ninety two percent (92%). Aggregate base courses shall have a
minimum in place density of ninety five percent (95%), with no individual tests
below ninety five percent (95%).
   H.   Portland Cement Concrete Curb And Gutter:
      1.   All street pavements shall be provided with portland cement concrete
curb and gutter.
      2.   The shape shall conform to the Heyworth concrete curb and gutter,
type B or type M, or as authorized by the village engineer.
      3.   The portland cement concrete shall meet the requirements for
pavements as set forth elsewhere in this title. All testing requirements shall
apply.
      4.   The concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed separate from or
integral to concrete pavement. The curb shall be constructed by hand or machine
in a manner authorized by the village engineer.
      5.   Contraction joints shall be provided at not less than twenty foot
(20') intervals for curb and gutter adjacent to bituminous concrete pavement,
and not less than fifteen foot (15') intervals adjacent to portland cement
concrete pavement.
      6.   Expansion joints shall be provided at locations as indicated in the
standard details in section
12-7-6 of this title. Expansion joints for curbs and gutter shall include an
eighteen inch (18") long smooth dowel bar with pinching stip cap, placed at
middepth.
      7.   When curb and gutter is constructed independently from portland
cement concrete pavement, the longitudinal joint shall be considered a
construction joint.
      8.   Curb and gutter shall be provided with not less than three-fourths
inch (3/4") slope per foot transverse slope, as shown on the detail found in
section
12-7-6 of this title. Curb and gutter with less than this minimum slope shall
not be acceptable, and shall be removed and replaced if installed with
inadequate transverse slope.
      9.   The stormwater curb and gutter frames, lids, and/or grates shall be
of the type currently conforming to the standards of the IDOT. No design that
may be a hazard to bicycles shall be allowed.
   I.   Testing And Acceptance:
      1.   All pavements shall be tested for compliance with the requirements
of this title. Pavements will not be accepted that do not conform to all
testing requirements.
      2.   Before final review, all pavements shall be cored for thickness by
the subdivider in the presence of the village engineer or other representative
of the village. Two (2) cores shall be taken every five hundred feet (500') per
lane unless deficiencies are encountered. When deficiencies are encountered,
additional cores shall be taken as needed to document the extent of the
deficiency. Requirements, in the event of deficient pavement thickness, shall
be as follows:
         a.   Four percent (4%) deficiency will be accepted only in isolated
areas.
         b.   Four percent (4%) to eight percent (8%) deficiency will require
the developer to file a five (5) year maintenance bond with the village in
addition to other bonds required. The amount of the bond shall be one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost of removing and replacing the
defective pavement at the end of the five (5) year period.
         c.   Eight percent (8%) and over deficiency will be removed and
replaced to the thickness shown on the drawings.
      3.   If portland cement concrete pavement test specimens do not attain
the required strength as stated above, the pavement may be accepted if the in
place strength of the concrete meets the minimum specified strength when cored
and tested according to American Concrete Institute (ACI) standard methods.
      4.   a. If the in place pavement strength, air content, or compaction of
bituminous concrete is found to be deficient or other obvious defect is found
to exist, subject to the review of the village engineer, the subdivider shall
either:
            (1)   Remove and replace the deficient sections of pavement; or
            (2)   Post a five (5) year cash bond as determined by the village
engineer in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the estimated
cost to remove and replace the deficient pavement at the end of the five (5)
year period.
         b.   If any significant pavement deterioration or defect appears in
the subject pavement within the five (5) year bond period, the deteriorated or
defective section shall be removed and replaced. If no deterioration or defects
appear within the five (5) year period, the bond shall be released.
      5.   a. In the event that the subdivider fails to properly test and
document subgrade compaction, air content, slump, and saw cut timing, subgrade
compaction, or asphalt compaction, the subdivider shall either:
            (1)   Remove and replace the deficient pavement sections; or
            (2)   Post a five (5) year cash bond in the amount of one hundred
fifty percent (150%) of the estimated cost to remove and replace the deficient
pavement.
         b.   If any defect, deficiencies or other failures appear in the
pavement within the five (5) year bond period, the deficient pavement shall be
removed and replaced. If no failures appear within the five (5) year period,
the bond shall be released. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-6: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of all public streets and
shall run to the back of the curb at each corner lot.
      2.   All sidewalks along streets shall be installed in the public right
of way. The back of the sidewalk shall be one foot (1') inside the right of
way, unless, for good cause shown, a variance in location is authorized by the
village board of trustees. Sidewalks at the cul-de-sac terminus of dead end
streets may be built as close as four feet (4') to the curb with the
authorization of the village engineer.
      3.   The village board of trustees may waive or defer the requirements
that the subdivider install sidewalks in all subdivisions except those
restricted to multi-family or apartment developments.
      4.   Public crosswalks shall be located within the ten foot (10')
easement or commons area as directed by the village engineer. This location
shall be dependent upon the location of proposed utilities within the same
easement.
      5.   All proposed sidewalks abutting streets shall be ramped with a
nonslip surface so that the street and sidewalk blend to a common level,
enabling persons in wheelchairs to travel freely. See subsection B9 of this
section.
      6.   Sidewalks shall be constructed by the subdivider after site grading
but prior to any construction upon any individual lot. The sidewalk adjoining a
block of roadway shall be constructed at one time.
      7.   a. The construction of sidewalks may be deferred until after
construction upon any individual lot. In this way, damage may be avoided to
previously installed sidewalks during the construction process. Construction of
the sidewalks must commence within one year from the date that any other
portion of the public improvements are accepted by the village.
         b.   If construction of the sidewalk or a portion of the sidewalk is
deferred until after lot construction, the construction performance guarantee
must not be reduced to an amount less than the value of the sidewalks. See
subsection
12-4-6D of this title. Maintenance guarantee and surety shall be required after
the sidewalks are dedicated to the village. See subsection
12-4-9E of this title.
   B.   Design:
      1.   All sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet (4') in width with a
preferred width of five feet (5') in areas zoned residential and a minimum of
five feet (5') in width in areas zoned commercial or industrial.
      2.   All sidewalks shall be a minimum of four inch (4") thick portland
cement concrete. All sidewalks through driveways shall be a minimum of six
inches (6") thick or of a thickness equal to that of the driveway, whichever is
greater.
      3.   Premolded expansion joints shall be placed at forty eight foot (48')
intervals and at all curb intersections or intersections with other permanent
structures.
      4.   All sidewalks shall be hand grooved at least one-half inch (1/2")
deep, with a one inch (1") grooving tool, at four foot (4') intervals, and
edged with an edging tool.
      5.   Sidewalks shall be constructed having a longitudinal slope no
greater than five percent (5%). Ramps are to be constructed per ADA
requirements with a longitudinal slope of no greater than one inch (1") per
foot.
      6.   Sidewalks shall be constructed having a transverse slope toward the
street of one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot.
      7.   The subgrade shall be prepared "properly" so that after compaction
it will conform to the alignment, grade and cross section shown on the approved
plans. Soft and unstable material that will not compact shall be removed and
replaced with material authorized by the village engineer. The entire subgrade
shall be compacted to not less than ninety percent (90%) of the standard
laboratory density. Topsoil materials shall not be utilized for subgrades.
      8.   Sidewalks along street pavements shall be constructed with not less
than two percent (2%) nor more than fifteen percent (15%) slope between the
back of curb and closest edge of the sidewalk. All sidewalks shall be built
above the street pavement, unless special circumstances dictate otherwise, as
authorized by the village engineer.
      9.   Sidewalk ramps shall comply with the Illinois department of
transportation detail 424001-03 (revised January 1, 2004) and section
12-7-6, figure 11, of this title. This detail requires a twenty four inch (24")
wide area adjacent to the street with a pattern of raised truncated domes
(detectable warnings). The color of the domes shall be the same contrasting
color as required by IDOT, namely federal standard color 30166, brick red.
   C.   Construction Requirements:
      1.   All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the provisions
of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT, latest
edition.
      2.   Portland cement concrete mix design shall be the same as stated in
this chapter.
      3.   Portland cement concrete sidewalks shall be field tested at the rate
of two (2) specimens per one thousand two hundred (1,200) linear feet or two
(2) specimens per day, whichever is greater, for strength, air content, and
slump.
      4.   Sidewalks shall be provided with a light broom surface finish.
      5.   Sidewalks shall be properly cured and protected for not less than
three (3) days. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-7: EXCAVATIONS FOR UNDERGROUND PIPING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   PIPE OR PIPELINE: Underground piping.
   UNDERGROUND PIPING: Pressure pipe, drain pipe, plumbing pipe, storm sewers,
wastewater sewers, or any other pipe conduit indicated on the drawings
(including piping referred to in title 10, chapter 6 of this code and sections
12-5-8 and
12-5-9 of this chapter).
   B.   Methods Of Pipe Installation: It is intended that piping be installed
by constructing open trenches, unless specifically shown otherwise on the
drawings. Piping shall not be installed by open cut methods which do not allow
the pipe to be bedded in granular material, such as installation with a
trenching machine. Piping may be installed by the boring and jacking method,
with or without casing piping, as required by the condition of the installation
with approval of the village engineer.
   C.   Application Of Provisions: Excavation and backfill for underground
piping shall include all excavation, backfilling, compacting, disposal of
surplus material, and all other work incidental to the construction of
trenches, including any additional excavation which may be required for
manholes or other structures forming a part of the pipeline.
   D.   Construction Standards: All excavation shall be in accordance with the
"Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction", latest
edition, and the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction",
IDOT, latest edition.
   E.   General Requirements:
      1.   Along the route of the new piping, the surface materials shall be
removed only to such widths as will permit a trench to be excavated which will
afford sufficient room for proper efficiency and proper construction. Where
sidewalks, driveways, pavements, and curb and gutter are encountered, care
shall be taken to protect against fracture or disturbance beyond reasonable
working limits. Topsoil suitable for final grading and landscaping shall be
piled separately, in locations authorized by the village superintendent of
public works or the developer's engineer, and preserved so that it may be
restored after the remainder of the backfill is so placed.
      2.   The subdivider may conduct exploratory excavations to determine if
an elevation conflict exists between a new pipeline and an existing utility.
These exploratory excavations shall be performed far enough in advance of the
work so that after consultation with the developer's engineer, any necessary
adjustments to the line and grade of the new pipeline can be made.
      3.   The subdivider may make any exploratory excavation necessary to
confirm the correct size, type, and number of fittings or valves required at a
particular location.
   F.   Hand Or Machine Excavations: Where working space will permit, trenches
may be excavated by machine; provided, that by so doing, public and private
improvements will not be subjected to an unreasonable amount of damage. If,
however, excavation by machine methods cannot be made without material damage
being done to public and private improvements, hand excavation shall be
employed.
   G.   Width Of Excavation:
      1.   The trench shall be excavated to an elevation four inches (4") below
the bottom of the pipe and so that the flow line of the finished pipeline will
be at the depth and grade specified or established by the developer's engineer.
For trench depths of five feet (5') or less and when sheeting and shoring is
not required, the trench shall be excavated to a minimum width of two feet (2')
wider than the external diameter of the pipe, to permit thorough tamping of the
material under the haunches and around the pipe. For trench depths of more than
five feet (5') and when sheeting or shoring is required, the trench width shall
be a minimum of three feet (3') wider than the external diameter of the pipe.
The trench shall generally be excavated so that vertical faces are maintained;
except, that when authorized by the developer's engineer and when physical
conditions and safety will permit, the sides of the trench may be sloped or
benched in accordance with OSHA's 29 CFR part 1926, subpart P, excavation
standards.
      2.   If these trench widths are exceeded without the written
authorization of the developer's engineer, the pipe shall be installed with a
concrete cradle, or with concrete encasement, or a stronger pipe than
originally specified shall be used as authorized by the developer's engineer.
   H.   Excavation Below Grade: In cases where the excavation is carried beyond
or below the lines and grades given by the developer's engineer, all such
excavated space shall be refilled with suitable granular material.
   I.   Trench Protection:
      1.   Generally:
         a.   Open cut trenches shall be protected in accordance with
applicable rules, laws and regulations of federal, state and village
ordinances, but shall not be less than the standards and regulations
established by the department of labor, occupational safety and health
administration, 29 CFR part 1926, occupational safety and health standards -
excavations; final rule, hereinafter called OSHA.
         b.   Protective systems may include two (2) types:
            (1)   Structural support systems.
            (2)   Sloping and benching excavation systems.
         c.   No protective system shall be required for excavations occurring
in other than stable rock up to five feet (5') in depth unless the soil has
been determined to be subject to potential cave in based on tests and
evaluations, or unless it has been found to experience cave in during
construction. If the excavation walls for trenches less than five feet (5') in
depth are subject to cave in, a protective system shall be used in conformance
with sections 20-2.08 and 20-2.09 of the "Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction In Illinois".
         d.   Any trench excavation which exceeds twenty feet (20') in depth
and occurs in other than stable rock shall make use of a protective system
which is designed and approved by an Illinois licensed structural engineer for
a structural support system or an Illinois licensed professional engineer for a
sloped and benched excavation system. For trench excavations occurring in other
than stable rock of a depth of twenty feet (20') or less, the protection system
provided shall conform to the requirements of sections 20-2.08 and 20-2.09 of
the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois", latest edition.
         e.   Surface encumbrances that are located so as to create a hazard to
workers in the trench excavation shall be removed or supported by the
contractor.
         f.   Ramps, runways, or ladders shall be provided for ingress and
egress of workers from trenches which exceed four feet (4') in depth in
accordance with OSHA standards.
         g.   Water in trenches shall be controlled by the use of water removal
equipment. If the trench excavation interrupts the natural flow of surface
water, diversion ditches or dikes shall be used.
         h.   When the stability of adjoining buildings, walls, sidewalks,
pavements, bridges, or other structures is endangered by excavation operations,
structural support systems such as shoring, bracing, or underpinning shall be
used to ensure the stability of the structure. Excavation below the foundation
of an adjacent structure which is not located in stable rock shall require
either of the following:
            (1)   An Illinois licensed professional engineer has determined
that the structure is sufficiently removed from the excavation so as to be
unaffected; or
            (2)   An Illinois licensed structural engineer has designed and
approved a structural support system to provide adequate protection to the
structure.
      2.   Trenches With Sloping Sides:
         a.   The subdivider may, at his option and expense, where working
conditions and right of way permit, and with the approval of the developer's
engineer, provide protection to the excavated trench by sloping and benching
the walls of the excavation, in lieu of providing a structural support system,
with the following limitations:
            (1)   Only structural support systems shall be used for protection
to excavations in traveled streets, highways, or alleys.
            (2)   Only structural support systems shall be used adjacent to
streets, highways, alleys, or sidewalks below the intersection of a one to one
(1:1) slope line from the nearest face of the excavation to the edge of the
pavement.
            (3)   Only structural support systems shall be used adjacent to a
building or bridge unless an Illinois licensed professional engineer has
determined that the building or bridge is in no danger of being affected by the
excavation.
         b.   When trenching with sloping sides is permitted, the slopes shall
not extend below the top of the pipe. Trench walls below the top of the pipe
shall be vertical, with size and width not exceeding the specified values
herein for the size of the pipe.
         c.   Design of sloping and benching systems shall be in conformance
with the OSHA rules and regulations.
   J.   Excavated Material: All excavated material shall be piled in a manner
that will not endanger the work and that will avoid obstructing streets,
sidewalks and driveways. Excavated materials suitable for backfilling shall be
stockpiled separately on the site. No materials shall be placed closer than two
feet (2') to the edge of an excavation. Fire hydrants under pressure, valve pit
covers, valve boxes, curb stop boxes, or other utility controls shall be left
unobstructed and accessible until the work is completed. Gutters shall be kept
clear or other satisfactory provisions made for street drainage. Natural
watercourses shall not be obstructed or polluted.
   K.   Removal Of Water: At all times during construction, equipment shall be
provided and maintained to remove and properly dispose of all water entering
the excavation or other parts of the work until all work to be performed
therein has been completed. No sanitary sewer shall be used for disposal of
trench water. No water containing settleable solids shall be discharged into
storm sewers. The proposed method for the control of groundwater shall be
prepared by the developer's engineer.
   L.   Safety Requirements:
      1.   Barricades, Guards And Safety Provisions: To protect persons from
injury and to avoid property damage, adequate barricades, construction signs,
torches, lights and guards, as required, shall be placed and maintained at the
site during the progress of the construction work and until it is safe for
traffic to use the roads and streets. All material piles, equipment and pipe
which may serve as obstructions to traffic shall be enclosed by fences or
barricades and shall be protected by proper lights when the visibility is poor.
The rules and regulations of OSHA and appropriate authorities respecting safety
provisions shall be observed.
      2.   Structure Protection: Temporary support, adequate protection and
maintenance of all underground and surface structures, drains, sewers, and
other obstructions encountered in the progress of the work shall be furnished
by the subdivider. Any structures which may have been disturbed shall be
restored upon completion of the work.
   M.   Deviations Occasioned By Structures Or Utilities: Wherever obstructions
are encountered during the progress of the work and interfere to such an extent
that an alteration in the work is required, the developer's engineer shall have
the authority to change the drawing and order a deviation from the line and
grade or arrange with the owners of the structures for the removal, relocation
or reconstruction of the obstructions. Where gas, water, telephone, electrical,
hot water, steam, or other existing utilities are an impediment to the vertical
or horizontal alignment of a new pipeline, the developer's engineer shall order
a change in grade or alignment or shall direct the subdivider to arrange with
the owners of the utilities for their removal.
   N.   Interruption To Utilities: Prior to proceeding with trench excavation,
the subdivider shall contact all utility companies in the area to aid in
locating their underground services. The subdivider shall proceed with caution
in the excavation and preparation of the trench so that the exact location of
underground structures may be determined.
   O.   Conduit Jacked, Bored Or Tunneled: All work consisting of jacking,
boring, or tunneling for pipe installation shall be in conformance with section
20-2.19 of the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction
In Illinois", latest edition.
   P.   Pipe Bedding:
      1.   a. "Rigid pipe" may be broadly defined as that which does not depend
on side support from trench backfill for its structural integrity, e.g., iron,
steel, or concrete pipe. Rigid pipe shall be bedded with granular pipe bedding
up to the horizontal centerline of the pipe. Backfill from the horizontal
centerline to a level of one foot (1') above the top of the pipe (initial
backfill) shall be either of granular backfill or excavated earthen materials.
         b.   "Flexible pipe" may be broadly defined as that which does depend
on side support from trench backfill for its structural integrity, e.g., solid
wall ABS, PE, PVC pipe, ABS composite pipe, or corrugated metal pipe. All
flexible pipe shall be backfilled with granular pipe bedding to a level one
foot (1') above the top of the pipe (initial backfill). Clay pipe is included
in this "flexible pipe" category so graded sand will be used for granular pipe
bedding and granular backfill in pipe trenches when installing clay pipe.
      2.   All pipe bedding shall be in conformance with sections 20-2.20 and
20-2.21A of the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction
In Illinois", latest edition.
      3.   All pipes shall be bedded in well compacted, moist aggregate bedding
material at least four inches (4") in depth below the pipe, placed across the
entire width of the trench and for the length of the pipe. Material for
granular pipe bedding shall be crushed limestone, washed gravel, washed sand,
or other granular material authorized by the developer's engineer. Granular
pipe bedding shall be placed to the centerline of the rigid pipe and to one
foot (1') above the top of the pipe for flexible pipe.
      4.   For rigid piping (iron, concrete, steel, etc.), the granular pipe
bedding for firm, dry trench bottoms shall be crushed limestone, coarse
aggregate gradation CA-6 or CA-9 as specified in the "Standard Specifications
For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT, latest edition.
      5.   For flexible and brittle piping (plastic, clay, copper, corrugated
metal pipe, etc.), the granular pipe bedding for firm, dry trench bottoms shall
be washed sand, fine aggregate gradation FA 5 or FA 6 as specified in the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT.
      6.   PVC sewer pipe shall be bedded and backfilled in general accordance
with "Underground Installation Of Flexible Thermoplastic Sewer Pipe", ASTM
standard D-2321. The embedment materials shall be class III.
      7.   When unsuitable soil conditions are encountered in the bottom of the
trench, the contractor shall remove unsuitable materials below the depth of the
bedding shown on the drawings, and shall replace the material removed with
compacted pipe bedding materials authorized by the developer's engineer.
      8.   In cases where excessively wet conditions exist on the trench
bottom, stone larger than those listed above (coarse aggregate gradation CA-
1 as specified in the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", IDOT) may be used as ballast to stabilize the bottom; however,
the pipe shall not be laid on this large aggregate. Granular pipe bedding is
required between the larger aggregate and the pipe.
      9.   As soon as the condition of the pipe will permit, the entire width
of the trench shall be backfilled with moist aggregate to the heights stated
above. The aggregate shall be placed longitudinally along the pipe. The
elevation of the haunch material on each side of the pipe shall be the same.
Special care shall be taken to completely fill the space under the pipe
haunches. The aggregate materials shall be placed in maximum six inch (6")
layers, loose measurement and compacted by ramming or tamping.
   Q.   Concrete Cradle: Where, in the opinion of the developer's engineer or
the village public works superintendent, subgrade conditions warrant extra
precautions for the bedding of pipe, the developer's engineer or the village
public works superintendent may order the construction of a concrete cradle to
support the pipe. The cradle shall be constructed as directed by the
developer's engineer.
   R.   Backfill:
      1.   Backfill Above The Pipe Bedding:
         a.   Method I: Method I applies to pipes installed under yards and
unimproved areas. In this method, the trench shall be backfilled with
originally excavated materials in a manner which will not dislodge or damage
the pipe or cause bridging action in the trench. The material shall be
deposited in uniform layers not exceeding twelve inches (12") thick, loose
measure. Each layer shall be compacted by ramming or tamping or, if directed by
the developer's engineer, shall be inundated or deposited with water. The top
of the trench shall be left neatly rounded to allow for settlement. The top
four inches (4") shall be topsoil. Any rocks or clods greater than two inches
(2") in diameter shall be removed from the topsoil as it is spread.
         b.   Method II: Method II applies to all pipes installed in all
alleys, driveways or parking areas which do not have permanent surfaces or oil
and chip surfaces. In this method, the trench from the top of the granular pipe
bedding to eight inches (8") below the ground surface shall be backfilled with
granular backfill. Then eight inches (8") of temporary aggregate surface
course, type B, gradation CA-6 or CA-9, as specified in the "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT, shall be applied so
that the finished surface of the aggregate is at the new elevation or matches
the existing surface elevation. The temporary materials shall be removed as
necessary during the final roadway construction.
         c.   Method III: Method III applies to all pipes installed beneath
existing utilities or structures. In this case, the trench from the top of the
granular pipe bedding to at least six inches (6") above the existing utility or
structure shall be backfilled with granular backfill. The granular material
shall be deposited in uniform layers not exceeding six inches (6") thick, loose
measure, and each layer shall be compacted by ramming or tamping. The trench
from six inches (6") above the existing utility or structure to the surface
shall then be backfilled in accordance with another applicable method: I, II,
IV, V, or VI.
         d.   Method IV: Method IV applies to all pipes installed in any area
where the existing or new surface is portland cement concrete. In this case,
the trench from the top of the granular pipe bedding to the bottom of the
existing or proposed surface shall be backfilled with granular backfill.
         e.   Method V: Method V applies to all pipes installed beneath oil and
chip driveways or streets or bituminous concrete surfaces and all other
driveways or streets not covered by method II. In this case, the trench from
the top of the granular pipe bedding to twelve inches (12") below the surface
shall be backfilled with granular backfill. The top twelve inches (12") of the
trench shall be temporary aggregate surface course, type B, CA-6 or CA-
9 gradation. The temporary materials shall be removed as necessary during the
final roadway construction.
         f.   Method VI: Method VI applies to all pipes installed in cultivated
fields. The backfill shall be placed as in method I; except, that no excavated
material shall be allowed within the upper zone originally occupied by topsoil.
After the backfill reaches the approximate lower limit of the original topsoil
zone, the stockpiled topsoil shall be spread in such a manner that natural
settlement will not result in a depression along the sewer route. All rocks and
boulders greater than two inches (2") in diameter shall be removed from the
topsoil as it is spread.
         g.   Method VII: Method VII applies to all pipes constructed in the
earthen berm. From the top of the pipe bedding to twelve inches (12") below the
proposed finish grade, the trench shall be backfilled with class A compacted
select excavation materials in eight inch (8") layers. The top twelve inches
(12") shall be filled with topsoil.
      2.   Controlled Low Strength Material: In lieu of the granular pipe
backfill required by subsection R3 of this section, controlled low strength
material (CLSM) may be used, if authorized by the developer's engineer and the
village public works superintendent. The CLSM shall conform to mix 1 for CLSM
as specified in section 1019 of the "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", IDOT, latest edition. Contractors shall take precautions
to prevent pipe dislocation during installation of CLSM.
      3.   Granular Backfill:
         a.   Material conforming to this specification for granular backfill
shall be placed and compacted in those locations shown in section
12-7-6 of this title. Granular backfill shall be used to fill the trench and
shall be compacted by mechanical methods unless such compaction is waived by
the developer's engineer.
         b.   Granular backfill for rigid pipe shall be coarse aggregate
gradation CA-6, CA-9, or CA-13 as specified in the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT, latest edition. Granular backfill for
flexible pipe shall be fine aggregate gradation FA-5 or FA-6 as specified in
the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT, latest
edition.
         c.   Materials for granular backfill shall consist of washed sand,
stone sand, crushed stone, pit run or crushed gravel. Granular backfill shall
be reasonably free from an excess of soft and unsound particles and other
objectionable matter. Granular materials from local deposits, graded to the
limits specified above, and authorized by the developer's engineer, may be used
for granular backfill. At the time of use, the granular backfill shall be free
of frozen lumps and foreign materials that may have become mixed with it during
handling.
      4.   Water Jetting Backfill: The water jetting backfill method of trench
backfill shall only be allowed in yards.
      5.   Deficiency Of Backfill Material: Where there is a deficiency of
suitable backfill material due to a rejection of part or all of the excavated
material as unsatisfactory for backfill purposes, the contractor shall furnish
satisfactory backfill material wasted from trench excavation in other locations
or from other sources.
   S.   Sewer And Water Main Separation:
      1.   General Requirements: Water mains and water service lines shall be
protected from sanitary and storm sewers, house service connections and drains.
Installation of water mains and sewer mains shall comply with standard drawings
18 through 24 of the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Mains In
Illinois", latest edition.
      2.   Horizontal Separation:
         a.   Water mains shall be located at least ten feet (10') horizontally
from any existing or new drain, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, combined sewer or
sewer service connection.
         b.   Water mains may be located closer than ten feet (10') to a sewer
line when:
            (1)   Local conditions prevent a lateral separation of ten feet
(10'); and
            (2)   The water main invert is at least eighteen inches (18") above
the crown of the sewer; and
            (3)   The water main is either in a separate trench or in the same
trench on an undisturbed earth shelf located to one side of the sewer.
         c.   When it is impossible to meet either of the conditions in this
subsection S2 or subsection S3 of this section, both the water main and drain
or sewer pipe shall be constructed of push on or mechanical joint ductile iron
pipe or PVC SDR rated pipe equivalent to water main standards of construction.
The drain or sewer shall be pressure tested to the maximum expected surcharge
head before backfilling.
      3.   Vertical Separation:
         a.   A water main shall be separated from a sewer pipe so that its
invert is a minimum of eighteen inches (18") above the crown of the drain or
sewer pipe whenever water mains cross storm sewers, sanitary sewers or sewer
service connections. The vertical separation shall be maintained for that
portion of the water main located within ten feet (10') horizontally of any
sewer or drain crossed. A length of water main pipe shall be centered over the
sewer pipe to be crossed with joints equidistant from the sewer or drain pipe.
         b.   Both the water main and sewer pipe shall be constructed of push
on or mechanical joint ductile iron pipe or PVC SDR rated pipe equivalent to
water main standards of construction when:
            (1)   It is impossible to obtain the proper vertical separation as
described in subsection S3a of this section; or
            (2)   The water main passes under a sewer or drain pipe.
         c.   A vertical separation of eighteen inches (18") between the invert
of the sewer or drain pipe and the crown of the water main shall be maintained
where a water main crosses under a sewer; there shall be support for the sewer
or drain pipes to prevent settling and breaking the water main, as shown in
section
12-7-6 of this title, as authorized by the developer's engineer. Construction
shall extend on each side of the crossing until the perpendicular distance from
the water main to the sewer or drain pipe is at least ten feet (10').
      4.   Prohibition: No water main shall pass through or come into contact
with any part of a sewer or sewer manhole.
   T.   Repair Of Existing Drain Tiles And Storm Sewers:
      1.   Drain tiles and storm sewers broken during the trench excavation
shall be repaired so their carrying capacities shall not be impaired. Broken
drain tiles shall be replaced with larger sized piping, either PVC plastic pipe
SDR-26 or ductile iron pipe, as shown in section
12-7-6 of this title. The length of the pipe shall be such that it extends a
minimum of ten feet (10') on either side of the water main. All repairs of
drain tile encountered shall be observed by the developer's engineer or a
representative of the village prior to backfilling. Compacted granular backfill
will be required as for any existing utility or structure. The pipe to field
tile junction shall be wrapped with burlap and encased in concrete. Care shall
be taken to prevent concrete from entering the flow line of the pipe.
      2.   Drain tiles and storm sewers uncovered during the trench excavation
which are laid parallel to the trench shall be protected and kept in service.
Those tiles or storm sewers accidentally broken shall be repaired or replaced.
If necessary, they shall be rerouted around the improvements.
   U.   Conflict Manholes: Drain tile or storm sewers discovered to be at the
same elevation as a wastewater sewer under construction may be handled as
follows:
      1.   A manhole will be constructed at the intersection of the pipes.
      2.   A sixteen foot (16') minimum section of ductile iron pipe will be
laid through the manhole (centered on the manhole) and will be connected to and
become a part of the wastewater sewer. Connection of dissimilar pipes shall be
made with suitable couplings and concrete encasement.
      3.   The drain tile or storm sewer shall be connected to the manhole but
not laid through it.
   V.   Ditch Reconstruction: Where ditches have been altered or ruined by
construction procedures, it shall be the responsibility of the contractor to
regrade the ditch to drain. The shape of the ditch, back slopes, etc., shall be
equivalent to that existing prior to pipeline construction.
   W.   Existing Sewer Removal: Where called for on the drawings, or required
for proper operation of new piping, existing piping shall be removed and
disposed of off site. All castings and/or valves shall be salvaged and turned
over to the village. Where new sewers are at the same location and depth as
existing sewers, the existing sewers shall be removed as the excavation is made
for the new sewers. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-8: WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
   A.   Design:
      1.   Design Criteria:
         a.   All design criteria shall be in general conformance with this
section and section
12-5-7 of this chapter, the current Illinois environmental protection agency
(IEPA) regulations, the IEPA technical policy statements, and the recommended
standards for waterworks, latest edition.
         b.   Design and construction of water mains shall be in accordance
with this section and section
12-5-7 of this chapter (including subsection A1a of this section), and if not
stated therein, the requirements of the "Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction In Illinois", latest edition. Where and if the
provisions of these standards conflict, the stricter of the regulations shall
apply.
      2.   Water Mains:
         a.   Water main sizes shall depend upon factors such as the demand
requirements, the pressure requirements in the distribution system, and plans
for the expansion of the municipal system. All water mains located within the
distribution system shall be a minimum of eight inches (8") in diameter.
         b.   The layout of the water mains shall be as needed to serve
adequately all lots and tracts with connection to the municipal system. The
mains shall be looped and valved to permit shutting off of service to only a
small number of connections for repairs or maintenance. Preferably, disruption
of service should be limited to one block. Looped mains shall be provided in
all locations except cul-de-sacs or scattered properties. The design and
construction shall include the placement of all fittings, including tees,
crosses, etc., where future development or engineering studies indicate looping
will be required.
         c.   Unlooped mains or dead ends shall be equipped with a fire hydrant
or permanent blowoff for flushing. See section
12-7-6 of this title.
         d.   All water mains shall be designed for a normal working pressure
during average flow and use conditions of not less than fifty (50) psi, and a
minimum pressure of twenty (20) psi under maximum flow conditions.
      3.   Hydrants:
         a.   Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the entire
distribution system. At least one hydrant shall be installed at each street
intersection. The hydrant spacing shall provide for hose lines along right of
way lines not exceeding three hundred fifty feet (350') to any portion of a lot
or a five hundred foot (500') interval between hydrants along the street. Fire
hydrants shall also be placed at all high spots in the distribution system.
         b.   All fire hydrants shall consist of Mueller® 3-way modern
centurion type hydrants.
         c.   All fire hydrants shall be equipped with an auxiliary valve
located between the main and the hydrant. See section
12-7-6 of this title.
         d.   All hydrant leads shall be a minimum six inch (6") diameter.
         e.   All hydrants shall have two (2) 21/2-inch hose connections, and
one 41/2-inch pumper connection.
      4.   Plugs, Caps, Tees, Bends And Fittings:
         a.   All plugs, caps, tees, bends, and fittings deflecting eleven and
one-fourth degrees (111/4°) or more on water mains shall be provided with both
thrust blocking and restrained joints.
         b.   The thrust blocking shall be concrete mix having a compressive
strength of not less than three thousand (3,000) psi at twenty eight (28) days.
Thrust blocking shall be precast and placed between solid ground and the
fitting to be anchored. The area of bearing on the pipe and on the ground in
each instance shall be shown on the drawings. Thrust blocking shall be designed
for a minimum internal pipe pressure of one hundred (100) psi. The blocking
shall be kept clear of the entire bell configuration of any adjacent joint and
shall be at least as large as is necessary to restrain the fittings from
movement.
         c.   In addition to thrust blocking, restrained or tied joints shall
be used when required per this section. The restrained joints shall be
installed on both sides of the particular fitting and on the next two (2) pipe
joints in either direction from the fitting. The number of restrained joints
required upstream and downstream from a fitting shall be per the restraining
device's manufacturer's recommendations and per the calculations of the
subdivider's engineer.
      5.   Valves:
         a.   Valves shall be uniformly located in some standard area such as
street or curb line to facilitate their location. A valve box, with its cover
at the finished grade, shall always be placed over a buried valve. Valves
should be located on all branches from feeder mains and between distributors
and fire hydrants. A minimum of four (4) valves shall be provided at crosses
and three (3) valves at tees; the valves should be placed on the smaller lines
at each cross or tee.
         b.   Valves shall be spaced not more than five hundred feet (500')
apart in commercial and industrial areas and eight hundred feet (800') in all
other areas.
         c.   At the outer limits of the subdivision, valves at tees and
crosses shall be placed so as to require the least number of water main
shutdowns that would be needed when the mains for future subdivisions are
extended. Water mains shall be extended to the outer boundary of the
subdivision to facilitate future extensions.
      6.   Service Connection: A service connection shall be extended to each
lot. All service connections shall be supplied with corporation stops and curb
stops with box. The service pipe shall conform with the village rules and
regulations for water service. Water service lines shall be installed by the
developer from the water main to the property line and shall terminate at a
curb stop. The individual homeowner is responsible for the installation of the
water service from the curb stop to the home. The village is responsible for
furnishing and installing only the individual water meters. See title 9 of this
code.
      7.   Minimum Cover: Minimum cover for water mains and services shall be
four feet six inches (4'6").
   B.   Materials:
      1.   Specifications Generally: All materials shall conform to the latest
standards issued by the American Water Works Association and shall be NSF rated
for potable water.
      2.   Water Mains: Water main pipe shall be polyvinyl chloride pipe,
unless directed otherwise by the village superintendent of public works,
described as follows:
         a.   Plastic water main pipe shall be SDR-PR pressure rated PVC pipe
with single gasket joints. The pressure rating shall be SDR-21. The PVC pipe
shall generally conform to ASTM standard D-2241. The joints shall be push on
compression joints with rubber gaskets generally conforming to ASTM standards
D-3139 and F-477. The joint shall have a built in stop to maintain proper pipe
end separation to allow for thermal expansion and contraction.
         b.   If permission is granted by the village public works
superintendent, ductile iron water main pipe may be used in lieu of PVC.
Ductile iron water main pipe shall be standard pressure class 350 ductile iron
pipe, with push on joints and cement lining, as described and manufactured in
accordance with AWWA standards C150 and C151. Gaskets must properly match bell
configuration. Rubber gasket joints shall be in accordance with AWWA standard
C111. The pipe shall be cement lined per AWWA standard C104.
      3.   Pipe Fittings:
         a.   Fittings used with ductile iron pipe shall be pressure class
three hundred fifty (350) psi ductile iron fittings, with push on joints and
cement lining, as described and manufactured in accordance with AWWA standards
C110 or C153 and C111. Mechanical joint end connections and retainer glands may
be required where site conditions require joint restraint. Tapped and solid
plugs shall have set screws for securing plug in bell of pipe or fittings.
         b.   Fittings used with PVC SDR-21 plastic pipe shall be ductile iron
fittings, as described in subsection B3a of this section, with transition
gaskets to fit the smaller outside diameter PVC pipe.
      4.   Valves And Valve Boxes:
         a.   Gate valves shall be either resilient wedge type gate valves or
double disc type gate valves described as follows:
            (1)   Resilient wedge type gate valves shall be iron body
resilient-seat gate valves manufactured in accordance with AWWA standard C509.
End connections shall be mechanical joint or push on joint as necessary to meet
the abutting pipe or fitting. The operating nut shall be two inches (2")
square. An arrow showing the direction in which the valve opens shall be cut in
the operating nut. Valves shall open counterclockwise. These valves shall be of
the nonrising stem type. All internal parts shall be accessible without
removing the main body from the pressure line. Valve body and bonnet shall be
manufactured of cast iron and shall have a fusion bonded epoxy coating inside
and out. Valve shall have a manganese bronze stem and "O" ring stem seals.
Gates shall be a wedge shape design. Wedges shall be constructed of ductile
iron, fully encapsulated in synthetic rubber except for the guide and wedge nut
areas. Wedge rubber shall be molded and bonded to the ductile iron portion and
shall not be mechanically attached with screws or similar fasteners. Wedges
shall seat symmetrically about the centerline of the operating stem, so that
seating is equally effective regardless of direction of pressure unbalance
across the wedge. The waterway shall be full size, smooth, and have no
depressions or cavities in the seat area.
            (2)   Double disc type gate valves, three inch (3") through forty
eight inch (48") diameter, shall conform to the requirements of AWWA standard
C500. The gate valves shall be double disc, parallel seat valves. All valves
shall be of the nonrising stem type unless otherwise shown on the drawings. The
valve stem shall be made of bronze, and the screw threads shall be accurately
cut and worked smooth and true throughout the entire lift. The valve stem shall
have a two inch (2") square opening nut. An arrow showing the direction in
which the valve opens shall be cut on the opening nut. Valves shall open
counterclockwise. Gate valves in exposed locations shall be fitted with
appropriate hand wheels unless otherwise specified.
         b.   Valve boxes shall be adjustable, screw type, and made of best
quality cast iron. Valve boxes for four inch (4") through twelve inch (12")
gate valves shall have a minimum five and one-fourth inch (51/4") diameter
shaft and consist of a base, bottom section, top section and a lid. Minimum
thickness of metal shall be three-sixteenths inch (3/16"). Boxes shall be
installed over the outside of all gate valves and shall be of length that can
be adapted, without full extension, to depth of cover required. The word
"water" shall be cast in the cover. A plastic centering insert shall be
provided.
         c.   Blowoff valve assembly shall have materials as specified in
typical blowoff valve assembly sketch found in section
12-7-6 of this title.
      5.   Hydrants:
         a.   Fire hydrants shall generally conform to the requirements of AWWA
standard C502. These hydrants shall be the two (2) piece breakaway type.
Hydrants shall be equipped with two (2) 21/2-inch hose nozzles and one 41/2-
inch pumper nozzle. Outlets shall have national standard threads. The hydrant's
main valve shall open with water main pressure and have a minimum opening of
five and one-fourth inches (51/4"). Inlet connections shall be as shown on the
drawings. Inlet to hydrant shall be at a minimum depth of four feet six inches
(4'6"), measured from the existing ground surface to the top of the barrel of
the pipe. Hydrants shall be Mueller® 3-way modern centurion type hydrants or
equivalent, as authorized by the village public works superintendent. Anchoring
pipe and couplings shall be used to install each hydrant.
         b.   Rock for hydrant drains shall be coarse aggregate, gradation CA-
1 or CA-3, complying with the provisions of the "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction", IDOT.
      6.   Service Lines:
         a.   Service lines larger than one inch (1") in diameter shall be
sized in accordance with the Illinois state plumbing code. All residential
service lines shall be K-1 copper water tubing minimum one inch (1") diameter.
Copper water tubing shall be type K, soft temper for underground service,
conforming to ASTM standards B-88 and B-251. The pipe shall be marked with the
manufacturer's name or trademark and a mark indicative of the type of pipe. The
outside diameter of the pipe and minimum weight per foot of the pipe shall not
be less than that listed in ASTM standard B-251, table 2.
         b.   All taps for water services in plastic water mains shall be made
using bronze, two (2) section service clamps, designed for use with plastic
pipe.
         c.   All corporation stops for one inch (1") diameter services shall
be ground key corporation stops with a straight through design. Fabricated of
brass, the inlet shall be AWWA taper thread, and the outlet shall be a
compression connection for CTS O.D. tubing, Mueller model H-15008 or
equivalent.
         d.   All curb stops for one inch (1") diameter services shall be
Mueller oriseal III model H-1504-2 or equivalent. These stops shall have top
and port "O" rings for sealing, have a quarter turn check, and have compression
connections for CTS O.D. tubing on both ends. The stops shall be quarter turn,
with an integral foot piece. Each curb stop shall be set on a concrete pad,
approximately twelve inches by twelve inches by two inches (12" x 12" x 2")
thick.
         e.   Curb boxes shall be placed over all curb stops. They shall be
cast iron extension type boxes with threaded screw on pattern base, designed to
fit over the specified curb stop. The boxes shall be one inch (1") or one and
one-fourth inch (11/4") diameter, generally forty eight inches (48") in length
when fully retracted, and sixty inches (60") in length when fully extended.
Boxes shall be furnished with a combination cast iron lid and a pentagon plug.
   C.   Construction:
      1.   Water main construction shall conform to this section and section
12-5-9 of this chapter and to manufacturer's specifications and literature for
the type of pipe used, unless modified herein. For construction details, see
section
12-7-6 of this title.
      2.   All types of pipe shall be handled in such manner as will prevent
damage to the pipe or coating. The pipe and fitting shall be inspected by the
subdivider for defects while suspended above grade. Accidental damage to pipe
or coating shall be repaired to the satisfaction of the developer's engineer or
be removed from the job. Methods of handling shall be corrected to prevent
further damage when called to the attention of the subdivider.
      3.   Dirt or other foreign material shall be prevented from entering the
pipe or pipe joint during handling or laying operations, and any pipe or
fitting that has been installed with dirt or foreign material in it shall be
removed, cleaned and relaid. At times when pipe laying is not in progress, the
open ends of the pipe shall be closed by a watertight plug or by other means
authorized by the developer's engineer to ensure absolute cleanliness inside
the pipe. Threaded pipe ends shall be protected by couplings or other means
until laid.
      4.   The water mains shall be laid and maintained to lines and grades
established by the drawings and specifications, with fittings, valves, tapped
or bossed outlets, and hydrants at the required locations. Valve operating
stems shall be oriented in a manner to allow proper operation. Hydrants shall
be installed plumb.
      5.   All water mains shall be laid to a minimum cover depth of four feet
six inches (4'6"). Depth shall be varied as necessary to accommodate crossings
with other utilities. Record depth measurements shall be taken at intervals not
greater than one hundred feet (100') to verify installed depth. Depth shall be
determined to proposed finished grade.
      6.   Record horizontal or vertical locations of all water mains shall be
provided at intervals not greater than two hundred fifty feet (250') to verify
installed location. Long radius curves, either horizontal or vertical, may be
laid with standard pipe by deflections at the joints for most rigid pipes and
in the pipe for most flexible pipes. If shorter lengths are required, the
drawings will indicate maximum lengths that can be used.
      7.   Where field conditions require deflection of curves not anticipated
by the drawings, the developer's engineer will determine the methods to be
used. Maximum deflections at pipe joints and laying radius for the various pipe
lengths shall be as recommended by the pipe manufacturer or stated in
applicable AWWA standards. When rubber gasketing pipe is laid on a curve, the
pipe shall be jointed in a straight alignment and then deflected to the curved
alignment. Trenches shall be made wider on curves for this purpose.
      8.   The trench bottom shall be true and even to provide support for the
full length of the pipe barrel. The pipe shall be bedded in a minimum of four
inches (4") of pipe bedding. Holes for the bells shall be provided at each
joint, but shall be no larger than necessary to allow joint assembly and to
ensure that the pipe barrel will lie flat on the trench bottom. Pipe shall be
installed in accordance with AWWA standard C600.
      9.   Maximum joint deflection angle for any water main shall be three
degrees (3°).
      10.   All water mains shall be constructed in accordance with the water
and sewer separation requirements stated in section
12-5-7 of this chapter.
      11.   A valve box shall be provided for every valve. The valve box shall
not transmit shock or stress to the valve. The valve box shall be centered over
the operating nut of the valve, with the box cover flush with the finished
surface. Valve boxes shall be set true vertically and supported to remain so
until all backfill has been placed.
      12.   All hydrants shall stand plumb and shall have their hose nozzles
parallel with the length of the street, with pumper nozzle four and one-half
inches (41/2") facing the street. Hydrants shall be set with the bottom flange
of the top section two inches (2") above ultimate final grade of the ground,
with a maximum deviation of two inches (2") in elevation being allowed. Each
hydrant shall be connected to the main with a six inch (6") or larger diameter
branch controlled by an independent valve. The valve shall be restrained to
allow shutoff when the hydrant is to be removed. All hydrants and hydrant leads
shall have restrained joints from the main to the hydrant including the
connection to the main and the hydrant foot.
      13.   Drainage shall be provided at the base of the hydrant by placing
coarse gravel from the bottom of the trench to at least six inches (6") above
the waste opening in the hydrant and to a distance of one foot (1') around the
elbow. The surface of the coarse gravel shall be covered with geotextile filter
fabric to prevent soil intrusion into the stone. Adequate support must be
provided to prevent the fire hydrant from settling. The bowl of each hydrant
shall be well braced against a sufficient area of unexcavated earth at the end
of the trench with concrete thrust blocks.
      14.   New water mains and appurtenances shall be connected to the
existing piping in accordance with the details in section
12-7-6 of this title. If the existing piping can be isolated from the system,
the connections shall be made by using cutting in sleeves in the existing
piping. If the existing water mains cannot be isolated from the system, the
connections shall be made under pressure using tapping sleeves and tapping
valves.
      15.   Where the connection of a new water main or appurtenance requires
interruption of service and notification of customers affected, the village
public works superintendent and subdivider shall mutually agree upon a date and
time for the connections to be made. The date and time will allow ample time
for the subdivider to assemble the labor and materials and for the village to
notify all customers affected.
   D.   Testing:
      1.   Pressure Test:
         a.   The subdivider shall be responsible for and pay all costs
associated with testing pressure mains. After a section of pipe has been laid
and partly backfilled, all newly laid pipe or any valved sections of it shall
be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure equal to fifty percent (50%) more than
the operating pressure at the lowest elevation of the pipe section, but not to
exceed the pressure rating of the type of pipe specified or the thrust
restraint design pressure. The test pressure shall not vary by more than five
(5) psi for the duration of the test. Each pressure test shall be not less than
one hour, and the contractor shall allow the system to stabilize at the test
pressure before conducting a leakage test. The basic provisions of AWWA
standard C600, "Installation Of Ductile Iron Water Mains And Their
Appurtenances", shall apply.
         b.   Each section of pipe to be tested (at no more than 1,000 foot
intervals), as determined by the developer's engineer, shall be slowly filled
with water, and the specified test pressure shall be applied by means of a pump
connected to the pipe in a satisfactory manner. The pump, pipe connection, and
all necessary apparatus, including gauges and meters, shall be furnished by the
contractor. Before applying the specified test pressure, all air shall be
expelled from the pipe and valves. When hydrants are in the test section, the
test shall be made against closed hydrant valves. To accomplish this, taps
shall be made, if necessary, at points of highest elevation and afterwards,
tightly plugged. Any damaged or defective pipes, fittings, valves, or hydrants
discovered in consequence of this pressure test shall be removed and replaced
by the subdivider, and the test shall be repeated until satisfactory to the
village engineer.
         c.   The developer's engineer and a representative from the village
shall witness each test. The developer's engineer shall record the results of
each test, state whether the results were satisfactory or not, and have all who
witnessed the test sign these reports.
      2.   Leakage Test:
         a.   During the pressure test, a leakage test shall be conducted to
determine the quantity of water lost by leakage under the specified test
pressure. The subdivider shall be responsible for and pay all costs associated
with leakage testing. "Leakage" shall be defined as the quantity of water that
must be supplied into newly laid pipe or any valved section thereof to maintain
pressure within five (5) psi of the test pressure after the pipe has been
filled with water and the air has been expelled. Leakage shall not be measured
by a drop in pressure in a test section over a period of time. Duration of each
leakage test shall be a minimum of one hour in addition to the pressure test
period.
         b.   The maximum allowable leakage in gallons per hour for a pipeline
shall not exceed that amount determined by the following formula:
            L = (N x D x square root of P)/7,400
 
Where:   
L      = Allowable leakage in gallons per hour
N      = Number of joints in the length of pipeline tested
D      = Nominal diameter of the pipe in inches
P      = Average test pressure during leakage test, in psig
 
When testing against closed metal seated valves, an additional leakage per
closed valve of 0.0078 gph/inch of nominal valve size shall be allowed.
         c.   Acceptance of a section of water main shall be determined on the
basis of allowable leakage. If any test of laid pipe discloses leakage greater
than that specified above, the subdivider shall locate and make repairs as
necessary until the leakage is within the specified allowance.
         d.   The developer's engineer and a representative of the village
shall witness these tests. The developer's engineer shall record the results of
these tests, state whether the results were satisfactory or not, and have all
who witnessed the test sign these reports.
      3.   Disinfection Of Water Mains:
         a.   Disinfection of all potable water mains shall be conducted in
general accordance with "Disinfecting Water Mains", AWWA standard C651, and 35
Illinois administrative code 652.203. The subdivider shall be responsible for
and pay all costs associated with water main disinfection. Only one sample
shall be required for the disinfection test. However, failure to demonstrate
satisfactory disinfection shall oblige the developer to submit two (2)
consecutive water samples collected from the completed project at least twenty
four (24) hours apart. Satisfactory disinfection is demonstrated when the
sample indicates no bacterial growths as measured by the membrane filter
technique or no tubes positive as measured by the presumptive test,
fermentation tube method.
         b.   All new water mains shall be satisfactorily disinfected prior to
use. All new community water supplies shall receive satisfactory results from
the analyses before an operating permit will be issued.
         c.   Adequate chlorine residuals exist in a distribution system when
there is a minimum of 0.2 milligrams per liter free chlorine residual for water
supplies practicing free chlorination or 0.5 milligrams per liter combined
chlorine residual for water supplies practicing combined chlorination. Projects
in these supplies shall be considered satisfactorily disinfected if one water
sample set indicates no bacteria.
         d.   Analyses of these samples shall be performed by an agency
laboratory or another certified laboratory. The operating permit application
shall be sent to the division of public water supplies permit section at the
same time as the water samples are sent to the agency laboratory. The
laboratory report sheets shall be submitted with the completed operating permit
application if another certified laboratory is used. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-9: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   No plat of any subdivision shall be approved by the village board
unless the subdivider provides for construction of a sanitary sewer system
adequate to serve the needs of the entire subdivision when the same is fully
developed. The location and design of said sanitary sewer system shall be
reviewed by the village engineer and approved by the Illinois environmental
protection agency (IEPA). This requirement shall not apply to any new
subdivision which cannot be provided with sanitary sewer service.
      2.   The adequacy of the existing sanitary sewers to which the proposed
development is to outlet into must first be determined by the subdivider. If
the existing sewers are not adequate, it shall be the subdivider's
responsibility to find an outlet for the sanitary sewers. This work shall be
done in cooperation within the village engineer and the village water and sewer
system committee. Capacity of sanitary sewers shall be determined utilizing
IEPA regulatory requirements.
      3.   All design calculations must be submitted to the village engineer
for review.
      4.   All permits required must be obtained by the subdivider (i.e., an
IEPA construction and operation permit). Permit application forms shall be
reviewed by the village engineer before being submitted to the IEPA.
      5.   All sanitary sewer work shall be done in accordance with the
regulations and standards of the IEPA and the village water and sewer use
ordinances 1 , unless more stringent requirements are stated herein.
   B.   Design:
      1.   Mainline sanitary sewers shall be a minimum of eight inches (8") in
diameter.
      2.   Maximum distance between manholes shall be four hundred feet (400').
      3.   Manholes shall be installed to provide access to continuous
underground sanitary sewers for the purpose of inspection and maintenance.
Manholes shall be provided at the following locations:
         a.   Where two (2) or more storm sewers converge.
         b.   Where pipe size changes.
         c.   Where a change in alignment occurs.
         d.   Where a change in pipe slope occurs.
      4.   Manholes shall be at least four feet (4') in diameter, constructed
of precast reinforced concrete units in accordance with the standard details in
section
12-7-6 of this title, and shall have gasketed joints.
      5.   All main sanitary sewer lines shall be terminated with a manhole.
This requirement may be waived for sewer lines less than one hundred fifty feet
(150') in length upon authorization by the village engineer and when a cleanout
is constructed at the end of the sewer line.
      6.   Each lot shall be provided with a tee or wye connection located near
the center of the lot (with pancake plug). All service lines and tees/wyes
shall be constructed watertight.
      7.   No service lines shall be connected to mainline manholes, except at
the last upstream manhole of an individual sewer.
      8.   Any service line stub which is nine feet (9') or greater from the
finished surface shall be provided with a riser to bring the service within
nine feet (9') of the surface. All such service tees/wyes shall be encased with
six inches (6") of concrete (with pancake plug).
      9.   Drop connections for service lines at manholes will not be allowed.
      10.   Back lot line sanitary sewer services shall be provided with
manholes at all street crossings.
      11.   Minimum and maximum pipe slopes shall conform with the Illinois
administrative code, title 35, subtitle C, chapter 11, part 370, section 320,
and with the following requirements:
         a.   The minimum allowable velocity shall be two feet (2') per second.
However, the preferred minimum velocity shall be two and one-half feet (21/2')
per second.
         b.   Precautions shall be taken by the contractor to prevent scouring
or displacement of the pipe if velocities exceed ten feet (10') per second.
      12.   Sanitary sewer service lines shall have a minimum diameter of six
inches (6") and a minimum slope of one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot, and shall
be extended from the mainline sewer to at least five feet (5') beyond the
property line. Building sewers (6 inch diameter minimum) from the buildings to
the service sewer connection shall be laid at a minimum slope of one-fourth
inch (1/4") per foot.
      13.   The openings through which pipes enter the manhole structure shall
be gasketed and shall be completely and firmly filled with nonshrink grout.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   Mainline Sewers: Materials for mainline sewers shall be:
         a.   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe (for mainline sewers up to 15
inches in diameter) generally conforming to ASTM standard D-3034, type PSM,
with minimum wall thickness standard dimension ratio (SDR) of 26 and push on
flexible elastomeric seal joints conforming to ASTM standard D-3212; polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) pipe (for mainline sewers 18 through 36 inches in diameter)
generally conforming to ASTM standard F-679.
         b.   If permission is granted by the village public works
superintendent, ductile iron pipe may be used in lieu of PVC (see the
requirements of subsection 12-5-8B2b of this chapter).
      2.   Service Sewers: Materials for service sewers (6 inch diameter) and
building sewers (6 inch diameter) shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe (4
through 15 inch diameter) generally conforming to ASTM standard D-3034, type
PSM, with minimum wall thickness standard dimension ratio (SDR) of 26 and push
on flexible elastomeric seal joints conforming to ASTM standard D-3212.
      3.   Force Main Pipe: All force main pipe shall be constructed of
pressure class plastic pipe as defined in subsection C1a of this section.
      4.   Manholes: Materials for manholes shall be:
         a.   Leaktight (including pipe entries) and shall be constructed
according to the standard details in section
12-7-6 of this title. All manholes shall have an inside diameter as shown in
section
12-7-6 of this title. Brick manholes will not be allowed. Manholes shall be
constructed of precast reinforced concrete manhole components in general
conformance to ASTM standard C-478. The use of concrete masonry units,
complying with ASTM standard C-139, for manhole barrel sections shall be
subject to the authorization of the village engineer on an individual basis. No
bitumastic materials shall be used in the construction of the manholes.
         b.   The base shall be an eight inch (8") thick monolithic unit with
welded wire fabric reinforcement.
         c.   Precast barrel and cone components: Manhole joints shall be
compression type utilizing rubber "O" ring gaskets. The barrel thickness for
four foot (4') diameter manholes shall be 5.75 inches (wall C); for five foot
(5') diameter manholes, 6.75 inches (wall C); for six foot (6') diameter
manholes, seven inches (7") (wall B). No bitumastic materials will be used to
seal manhole joints. Cones shall be eccentric. Pipe entry holes shall be
precast in the barrel sections. Sanitary manhole pipe entries shall be
watertight compression joints utilizing rubber gaskets compatible with the pipe
being used.
         d.   Precast concrete flat tops required for manholes shall be
manufactured according to the standard details of the IDOT.
         e.   Concrete masonry units may be used for manhole construction if
authorized by the village engineer. Masonry unit manholes shall be built with
mortared joints, upon a flat base component.
         f.   Steps shall be set into the manhole walls at the time when the
manhole walls are cast. Steps shall be set at sixteen inches (16") on centers.
The manhole steps shall consist of fiber reinforced plastic (FRP). Cast iron
steps are not allowed.
         g.   Each manhole shall have the frame, lid, or grate as specified in
this title or shown in the standard drawings in section
12-7-6 of this title. All closed lids shall have concealed pickholes and shall
be self-sealing with rubber gasketed lids. Castings for sanitary manholes
installed in streets or traveled surfaces shall be Neenah model R-1713 or
equivalent. Castings for sanitary manholes installed in yard areas (areas not
expecting heavy loads) shall be Neenah model R-1772A or equivalent.
         h.   All pipes connected to manholes and inlets shall be cut to fit
with a concrete saw or similar saw. Breaking off pipe sections with hammers,
chisels, or chains will not be allowed.
      5.   Cleanouts: Cleanouts shall be constructed as shown on the standard
drawings in section
12-7-6 of this title, and shall include a wye fitting, piping, plug, concrete
encasement, a concrete pad, and a cast iron cleanout ferrule and brass plug.
      6.   Fittings: Fittings shall be the same type of material as the pipe.
All joints shall be watertight and gastight. Connections between different pipe
materials shall be made with a manufactured coupling.
      7.   Taps: Sewer taps to existing sewer lines shall be constructed as
required by the village engineer utilizing manufactured fittings and couplings,
and shall be made watertight. Sewer taps to existing sewer lines shall be
inspected by the village superintendent of public works before they are encased
or backfilled.
   D.   Wastewater Pump Stations:
      1.   The type and design of wastewater pump stations must be approved by
the village engineer.
      2.   All design calculations must be submitted to the village engineer
for review.
      3.   All construction shop drawings must be submitted to the village
engineer for review. Operation and maintenance manuals shall be provided for
all equipment and materials provided for the pump stations.
   E.   Construction: All construction shall be in accordance with this section
and section
12-5-7 of this chapter, the IEPA regulations, and the following additional
requirements:
      1.   All gravity sewer pipe shall be laid to conform to the prescribed
line and grade shown on the drawings by using a laser. The subdivider shall
constantly check the line and grade of the laser beam and the pipe, and in the
event they do not meet the elevations and grades shown on the drawings, the
subdivider shall stop the work and notify the developer's engineer, remedy the
cause, and relay any pipe installed at improper grade or elevations. Minimum
cover shall be four feet (4') from finished grade to the top of the pipe for
gravity sewers or force main. Special structural protection shall be provided
for cases where there is less than minimum cover.
      2.   Laying of pipe shall be accomplished to line and grade in the trench
only after it has been dewatered and the foundation and/or bedding has been
prepared. Mud, silt, gravel and other foreign material shall be kept out of the
pipe and off the jointing surfaces. Dewatering sufficient to maintain the water
level at or below the surface of trench bottom or base of the bedding course
shall be accomplished prior to pipe laying and jointing, if not prior to
excavation and placing of the bedding. The dewatering operation, however
accomplished, shall be carried out so that it does not destroy or weaken the
strength of the soil under or alongside the trench. The normal water table
shall be restored to its natural level in such a manner as to not disturb the
pipe and its foundation.
      3.   All pipe laid shall be retained in position so as to maintain
alignment and joint closure until sufficient backfill has been completed to
adequately hold the pipe in place. The pipe shall be laid up grade from point
of connection on the existing pipe or from a designated starting point. The
pipe shall be installed with the "female" end upgrade, unless authorized
otherwise. When pipe laying is not in progress, the forward end of the pipe
shall be kept tightly closed with a temporary plug.
      4.   Pipe bedding shall be placed so that the entire length of the pipe
will have full bearing, six inches (6") over the top.
      5.   Plugs for pipe branches, stubs or other open ends which are not to
be immediately connected shall be made of an authorized material and shall be
secured in place with a joint comparable to the mainline joint. Stoppers may be
of an integrally cast breakout design.
      6.   No existing pipe shall be connected to a new pipe unless
specifically authorized in each instance by the village engineer. Storm drains
and drain tiles shall not be connected to a wastewater sewer.
      7.   The subdivider shall install service sewers (laterals) as shown in
section
12-7-6 of this title. Excavation, backfill, restoration of surfaces, and the
laying of service sewers (laterals) shall be the same as for the mainline
gravity sewers. The subdivider shall connect the service sewers (laterals) to
the mainline gravity sewer by either a service riser and service wye, only a
service wye, or at a manhole stub. If required, the subdivider shall also make
the four inch (4") diameter building sewer connections to the six inch (6")
diameter service sewers (laterals).
      8.   Existing sewers severed during any excavation shall be repaired by
replacing them with ductile iron pipe of the same inside diameter. The ends of
the ductile iron pipe shall be joined to the existing pipe on each side of the
trench by the method illustrated on the drawings in section
12-7-6 of this title.
      9.   Pipes shall be jointed as recommended by the pipe manufacturer.
Dissimilar pipes shall be jointed with suitable adapter couplings and concrete
encasement, unless otherwise authorized by the developer's engineer.
      10.   The following shall apply to wastewater sewer service risers and
laterals:
         a.   Where the depth of the sewer invert is greater than nine feet
(9') below the surface of the ground, a service riser shall be constructed to
an elevation of nine feet (9') below the ground elevation. In some locations,
nine feet (9') of depth may be too shallow to serve basements. At other
locations, wyes may have to be installed so that the spur is at a right angle
to the vertical plane through the centerline of the sewer.
         b.   The subdivider shall be responsible for closely checking the
basement elevations along with the distance from the new mainline sewer to the
building to be served and shall install the spur of the tee/wye, or the top of
the riser, or the end of the lateral (whichever applies) at a low enough
elevation to permit the six inch (6") diameter service sewer to be installed at
a one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot grade and still have the flow line of the
upstream end of the building sewer at least one foot (1') below the basement
elevation. In no case shall the top of the riser be less than nine feet (9')
below the ground surface.
         c.   The service riser shall be constructed with a six inch (6") tee/
wye placed to receive the six inch (6") riser or lateral. The riser pipe shall
extend to the elevation as above determined. The tee/wye or tee/wye and riser
combination shall be installed and bedded as shown on the drawings in section
12-7-6 of this title.
         d.   Six inch (6") laterals shall be constructed from the tee/wye
branch and riser to five feet (5') beyond the property line of the lot to be
served, or to the location shown in section
12-7-6 of this title, and shall terminate with a manufactured temporary plug.
In many cases, these laterals will have to be constructed across streets,
alleys, sidewalks and easements to reach the property line.
         e.   Prior to backfilling, the subdivider shall place a two inch by
eight inch (2" x 8") stake at the end of the riser or lateral, perpendicular to
the horizontal plane through the centerline of the pipe to serve as a visual
indicator of the location of the service. The stake shall extend at least three
feet (3') above finished grade and shall be painted with orange and red
fluorescent paint. Care shall be taken while backfilling to ensure the stake
remains vertical.
      11.   The subdivider shall connect service sewers and risers (6 inch
diameter) to the new mainline sewers by core drilling a six inch (6") diameter
hole in the pipe wall, installing a cast iron tee saddle on the sanitary sewer
and connecting the service sewer to the tee. Care must be taken in ordering tee
saddles so they are compatible with both the mainline sewer pipe type and the
brand of service sewer pipe being used.
      12.   Manhole construction shall be as follows:
         a.   The base section shall be placed on a compacted granular bedding
not less than six inches (6") thick and extending to the limits of the
excavation. The bedding shall be smooth and level to assure uniform contact and
support of the manhole base. The manhole base and fillet may be cast
monolithically with the bottom barrel section of the manhole.
         b.   All lift holes shall be completely filled with nonshrink grout
and the exterior coated with a layer of waterproofing paint prior to
backfilling. All void spaces on the inside and outside of manhole joints shall
be filled with nonshrink grout.
         c.   For manhole joints that will be subject to a constant hydrostatic
pressure, an external rubber seal with metal bands shall be placed around the
joints in the barrel section.
         d.   Blockouts (within the manholes at the fillets) used to install
the rubber pipe gaskets shall be filled with concrete to the centerline of the
influent and/or effluent piping.
         e.   After all sewers have been connected to the manhole, a concrete
fillet shall be constructed in the bottom of the manhole as shown in section
12-7-6 of this title. Placement of the fillets shall be prior to placement of
the manhole flat tops and/or frames and grates.
         f.   Castings placed on concrete or masonry surfaces shall be set in
full mortar beds. Castings shall be set accurately to the finished elevation so
that no subsequent adjustment will be necessary.
         g.   Manholes shall be furnished with a one-half inch (1/2") diameter
pipe nipple ten inches (10") long with a cap extending through the manhole wall
and located at the top of the sewer pipe or by an alternative method authorized
by the village engineer to assist in determining the level of the ambient water
table.
   F.   Testing:
      1.   All wastewater sewers shall be tested for leakage using the
infiltration test if the water table is twenty four inches (24") or higher
above the crown of the pipe, and the exfiltration by water test will be used if
the water table is less than twenty four inches (24") above the crown of the
pipe. If authorized by the developer's engineer, pressure air testing of the
sewers may be used only if conditions do not permit testing by infiltration or
exfiltration by water. PVC sewer pipe shall also be tested for deflection.
      2.   All sewers shall be lamped, and shall show at least three- fourths
(3/4) of the cross sectional area of the pipe between adjacent manholes. All
sewers not passing the lamping test shall be considered unsatisfactory and
shall be repaired by the subdivider.
      3.   Any sewer not passing the tests required in subsections F1 and F2 of
this section shall be deemed unacceptable and shall be properly repaired by the
subdivider and retested until such time as the sewer passes these required
tests.
      4.   The maximum section to be tested shall be between adjacent manholes.
The developer's engineer shall determine what the testing section lengths shall
be. The subdivider will be advised of the results of all tests performed as a
guide to his operation.
      5.   The subdivider shall flush all sewers with water sufficient in
volume to obtain free flow through each line. Flushing water and debris shall
not enter any pump station wet well. Water will be pumped from the sewer system
during flushing to a discharge location authorized by the developer's engineer.
A visual inspection shall be made and all obstructions removed and defects
corrected. The subdivider shall cooperate with the village engineer in the
performance of leakage and exfiltration tests on all sections of sewer after
backfilling. The subdivider shall supply all materials, equipment, and labor
necessary to complete the testing requirements. The subdivider is also
responsible for the disposal of flow from the pipe, or trench upstream from the
pipe, or trench upstream from the section being tested, for a period of not
more than eight (8) hours for each test performed. Tests will be performed in
such manner and at such times as to cause the least possible hindrance to the
progress of work.
      6.   Test methods are as follows:
         a.   Infiltration Method: The section of sewer to be tested shall have
been backfilled and a check made to ensure the water level in the trench is a
minimum of twenty four inches (24") over the crown of the sewer pipe.
Infiltration flow shall be measured by a ninety degree (90°) V-notch weir with
free fall discharge or other means acceptable to the village engineer.
Infiltration leakage shall not exceed two hundred (200) gallons per inch of
pipe diameter per mile per day of sewer pipe, including manholes in the test
section.
         b.   Exfiltration Method: The section of sewer to be tested shall be
sealed by inserting inflatable rubber bags in the pipes or by other means, and
then water shall be introduced into a manhole until the section is completely
filled. The subdivider shall fill the pipe to the test level eight (8) hours
prior to the time of exfiltration testing to permit normal absorption into the
pipe walls. Throughout the test period of at least one hour, the water level in
the upper manhole shall be maintained at least twenty four inches (24") above
the crown at the upper end of the pipe or at least twenty four inches (24")
above the groundwater table, whichever is higher. The length of pipe tested
shall be limited so that the pressure on the centerline of the lower end of the
section tested shall not exceed six feet (6') of water column. Exfiltration
leakage shall not exceed two hundred forty (240) gallons per inch of pipe
diameter per mile per day of sewer pipe, including manholes in the test
section.
         c.   Air Testing: Air testing shall be done in accordance with ASTM
standard C-828, "Recommended Practice For Low-Pressure Air Test Of Vitrified
Clay Pipe Sewer Lines (4 To 12 Inches)".
         d.   Deflection Testing: Following their construction, all PVC
wastewater sewers shall be tested for deflection per the requirements of
sections 31-1.11B(4) and 31.11C(4) of the "Standard Specifications For Water
And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois".
      7.   Prior to putting any service connection from a house or other user
to a mainline sewer into use, the subdivider's engineer shall file a
certificate with the village stating that the required improvements were
constructed in accordance with the approved engineering drawings and
specifications. Such certificate shall include the following:
         a.   The elevation of the groundwater line and the elevations of the
upper and lower pipe inverts for each portion tested.
         b.   The infiltration, exfiltration, or one pound air pressure drop
rates of each portion tested and the allowable rates based upon the test method
utilized.
         c.   A statement that all reaches between manholes have passed the
required leakage tests.
         d.   A statement that all reaches between manholes have passed all
deflection tests and a compilation of deflection test results (if applicable).
         e.   A statement that all reaches between manholes have passed all
lamping tests and that all reaches are clean and straight and free of all
obstructions or debris. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
12-5-10: STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM:
   A.   A combination of temporary storage and the controlled release of
stormwater runoff shall generally be required for all new commercial and
industrial developments, residential subdivisions, planned unit developments,
and any redevelopment or other new construction.
   B.   The requirements and standards for the control and storage of
stormwater runoff governing both private and public improvements and as it
relates to the subdivision of land shall be as enumerated in the stormwater
management ordinance of the village, title 10, chapter 6 of this code. (Ord.
2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-11: EROSION CONTROL:
   A.   Soil erosion control measures shall be in accordance with the
requirements and standards enumerated in title 10, chapter 7 of this code.
   B.   Prior to the commencement of construction, the subdivider's erosion
control plan shall be presented for review by the village engineer. (Ord. 2007-
19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-12: STREET LIGHTING:
   A.   The subdivider shall provide a streetlight at every intersection or T-
intersection, at the end of every cul-de- sac, and if the distance between
intersections exceeds four hundred feet (400'), one light halfway between
intersections.
   B.   Streetlights shall be affixed to wood, concrete, or metal poles.
   C.   Schedule 40 PVC pipe conduits, minimum one and one-half inch (11/2")
diameter, shall be installed beneath all driveways, pavements, walks, and in
all other areas where buried electrical wires for streetlights may be
installed.
   D.   Streetlights shall be HPS (high pressure sodium), one hundred (100)
watts, and mounted approximately twenty five feet (25') above the street.
Construction of the streetlights shall meet the requirements of the power
company. Locations of all lights shall be reviewed by the economic development
committee and the power company.
   E.   The subdivider shall be responsible for contacts with the power
company, payment of the initial costs of the lights, and payment of all costs
for operation and maintenance of the lights until such time as the subdivision
is accepted by the village. At that time, the village will take over the
maintenance costs of the streetlights. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-13: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
A traffic control plan shall be included in the site engineering plans for all
subdivisions. Barricades and lighting and other traffic control measures shall
be provided, as necessary, during construction, in accordance with the "Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", latest edition. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-5-14: BUILDINGS WITHIN PROPOSED MAJOR STREET EXTENSIONS:
After the effective date hereof, no permanent building or structure shall be
erected within the extended street lines of proposed extensions of major
streets shown on the major streets plan adopted as part of the comprehensive
plan for the village. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
CHAPTER 6
PARKS, SCHOOL SITES AND OTHER PUBLIC AREAS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Designation Or Reservation Of Areas Required
12-6-2: Parks, Open Spaces And Recreational Areas
12-6-3: Trees
12-6-4: Preservation Of Natural Features And Amenities
12-6-1: DESIGNATION OR RESERVATION OF AREAS REQUIRED:
   A.   Where a proposed park, playground, school site or other public use area
shown in the comprehensive land use plan for the village and adjacent
unincorporated areas is located, in whole or in part, in a proposed
subdivision, the economic development committee or the village board of
trustees may require the designation or reservation of such area, in whole or
in part, within the subdivision.
   B.   When an area of land designated for school sites or other public
facilities is located, in whole or in part, in a subdivision, the owner of the
subdivision shall designate on the preliminary plat and final plat that such
land is reserved for such use. The owner shall offer to sell such land to the
school district, the village, or other governing body, for an amount equal to
the fair market value of such land plus the cost of constructing the required
public improvements to service such land. If such land is not acquired or
arrangements made for acquisition within one year after the date of the
recording of the final plat, such land may thereafter be used by the owner for
a use permitted at its location. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-6-2: PARKS, OPEN SPACES AND RECREATIONAL AREAS:
   A.   All subdivisions shall be designed so that park and recreational areas
are dedicated to the village in a manner and to the extent prescribed, so as to
accommodate the open space and recreational needs of those persons living on or
who may live within the confines of the subdivisions. The land or any fees
received under this chapter by the village shall be used only for the purpose
of providing park, open space, or recreational facilities.
   B.   The owner of a subdivision may be required to dedicate land within a
subdivision for park and recreational purposes or may be required to pay a fee
in lieu of said dedication, in accordance with the following criteria:
      1.   For subdivisions where the total area does not exceed three (3)
acres, no land dedication or fee payment is required.
      2.   For subdivisions where the total area is at least three (3) acres
but less than ten (10) acres, the owner has the option of dedicating at least
five percent (5%) of the subdivision area for parks, open spaces, or
recreational uses, or paying a fee as provided in section
12-3-4 of this title.
      3.   For subdivisions where the total area is ten (10) acres or more, the
owner is required to dedicate at least five percent (5%) of the total area for
parks, open spaces, or recreational uses.
   C.   The comprehensive land use plan shall be used as a guide in locating
sites for parks and recreational uses. Generally, a central location which will
serve equally the entire subdivision is most desirable. However, lands
dedicated for sites should, where possible, be combined with such other park
dedications from abutting subdivisions in order to produce usable recreation
areas without hardship on the owners. Lands dedicated for sites shall be
located adjoining existing or planned streets or parks for access and the
maximum utilization of land for park purposes.
   D.   The size, location, topography, and access to all planned parks, open
spaces, and recreational areas shall be part of the preliminary plan approval
process and is subject to review and approval by the village board of trustees.
   E.   Where a dedication is required, it shall be accomplished in accordance
with the Illinois Compiled Statutes prior to the time the final plat is
approved by the village board.
   F.   If the owner wishes to pay a fee instead of land dedication, the fees
shall be paid to the village prior to approval of the final plat. Such fees
shall be held in trust by the village solely for the development of parks, open
spaces, and recreation areas, which may be made available to serve immediate or
future needs of the residents of that subdivision or for the improvement of
other existing village parks which already serve such areas.
   G.   When private open space for park and recreational purposes is proposed
within a subdivision and such space is to be owned and maintained by the
residents thereof, such private open space may be credited against the
requirements for dedication of park and recreation land; provided, that the
village board finds it in the public interest to do so, and that the following
standards are met:
      1.   The conditions of ownership and maintenance shall be approved by the
economic development committee and the village board of trustees; and
      2.   That the use of such private open space is restricted for park and
recreational uses by recorded covenants which run with the land in favor of the
future owners of lots within the subdivision and which cannot be defeated or
eliminated without consent of the village board; and
      3.   That such private open space is reasonably adaptable for use for
park and recreational purposes, taking into consideration the size, shape,
topography, access and location of such open space; and
      4.   That such private open space is compatible with the comprehensive
land use plan. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-6-3: TREES:
   A.   Trees Required: Trees shall be planted in each subdivision. Each
subdivider shall follow the standards required by the village for the planting
of trees along all road and street rights of way within their subdivision
(including both sides of a road or street). The subdivision owner shall be
responsible for furnishing, installing, and paying all costs associated with
compliance with village regulations.
   B.   Planting And Species Requirements:
      1.   All trees shall be planted in accordance with planting locations
required by the village. The type of tree which can be planted shall be in
accordance with village regulations. Requirements for planting and maintenance
required by the village shall be followed by the subdivision owner.
      2.   All trees must be planted prior to final approval of the subdivision
streets and the release of bonds. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
12-6-4: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES AND AMENITIES:
Existing features that would add value to residential development or to the
local government as a whole, such as trees, watercourses, historic sites, and
similar irreplaceable assets, shall be preserved in the design of the
subdivision. No trees shall be removed from any subdivision nor any change of
grade of the land effected until approval of the preliminary plat has been
granted. All trees on the plat required to be retained shall be preserved, and
all trees where required shall be welled and protected against change of grade.
The plat shall show the number and location of existing trees and shall further
indicate all those trees marked for retention and the location of all proposed
trees required along the street side of each lot. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS FORMS AND FIGURES
SECTION:
12-7-1: Assignment Of Certificate Of Deposit
12-7-2: Certificate Of Owner
12-7-3: County Clerk's Certificate
12-7-4: Village Treasurer's Certificate
12-7-5: Letter Of Credit
12-7-6: Figures
12-7-1: ASSIGNMENT OF CERTIFICATE OF DEPOSIT:
The assignment of certificate of deposit must be submitted on a form as
approved by the village. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
12-7-2: CERTIFICATE OF OWNER:
The certificate of owner must be submitted on a form as approved by the
village. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
12-7-3: COUNTY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE:
The county clerk's certificate must be submitted on a form as approved by the
village. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
12-7-4: VILLAGE TREASURER'S CERTIFICATE:
The village treasurer's certificate must be submitted on a form as approved by
the village. (Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
12-7-5: LETTER OF CREDIT:
The letter of credit must be submitted on a form as approved by the village.
(Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
12-7-6: FIGURES:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1676.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1678.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1680.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1683.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1685.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1687.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1691.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1693.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1695.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1697.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1699.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1703.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1701.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1707.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1709.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1711.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1715.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1719.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1721.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1723.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1725.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1727.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1729.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1689.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1731.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1733.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1735.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1737.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1739.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1741.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1743.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1745.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1747.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b5280720b5b77da9f94eb54744116a10e355f66b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1749.gif]
 
(Ord. 2007-19, 5-21-2007)
TITLE 13
ANNEXATIONS AND DISCONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 1
REQUIREMENTS, PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Purpose And Intent
13-1-2: Definitions
13-1-3: Minimum Requirements
13-1-4: Annexations Initiated By The Village
13-1-5: Annexations Initiated By Property Owners And Electors
13-1-6: Annexation Agreements
13-1-7: Disconnections
13-1-8: Required Documents
13-1-9: Fees
13-1-10: Exceptions
13-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to set forth the requirements,
procedures and regulations for annexing or disconnecting property into or from
the village. (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009)
13-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ANNEXATION: Except as herein provided, includes all methods of annexing
property into the village described in article 7, division 1 of the Illinois
municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-1-1 et seq.
ANNEXATION AGREEMENT: Any agreement described and authorized by the provisions
of this chapter and section 11-15.1-1 et seq., of the Illinois municipal code,
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-15.1-1 et seq.
ELECTORS: Registered voters.
OWNERS OF RECORD: Include, but are not limited to, fee owners, trustees of land
trusts, owners of easement rights, contract purchases of recorded purchase
contracts, and all titleholders who are beneficiaries of a land trust. (Ord.
2009-113, 9-21-2009)
13-1-3: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The following are minimum requirements that must be fulfilled in order for any
annexation to occur:
   A.   The territory to be annexed must be unincorporated and not incorporated
into another municipality.
   B.   The territory to be annexed must be sufficiently contiguous to the
village as is required by law.
   C.   Notice must be given to the proper authorities:
      1.   Notice must be given to the following entities in all annexations:
         a.   Fire Protection Districts: Notice of any proposed annexation must
be served by certified or registered mail at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing to all fire protection trustees that are then providing services to the
property to be annexed;
         b.   Library Districts: Notice of any proposed annexation must be
served by certified or registered mail at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing to all library district trustees of the property to be annexed;
         c.   Township Boards: Notice of any proposed annexation must be served
by certified or registered mail at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to
all board of town trustees of any township in which the property to be annexed
lies; and
         d.   Highway Commissioners: Notice of any proposed annexation must be
served by certified or registered mail at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing to any township commissioner of highways of any township in which the
property to be annexed lies.
      2.   Notice may also be required to be given to, and which may not be
limited to, any of the following:
         a.   Election authorities;
         b.   Post offices;
         c.   County recorders;
         d.   Property owners; and
         e.   Other municipalities.
   D.   The new boundary of the village as described in a petition for
annexation and/or annexation ordinance must extend to the far side of any
adjacent highway and must include all of every highway within the area to be
annexed.
   E.   If an annexation is approved, the following must be filed with the
office of the recorder of the county in which the annexed property is located
prior to annexation and with the McLean County recorder's office within ninety
(90) days after the annexation is approved:
      1.   A certified copy of the annexation ordinance;
      2.   An accurate map of the annexed territory; and
      3.   A plat of the annexed property prepared by a registered land
surveyor or the village engineer 1 . (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/1.02.
13-1-4: ANNEXATIONS INITIATED BY THE VILLAGE:
   A.   Application: This chapter shall apply to and regulate annexations that
are initiated by the village for the purpose of annexing property into the
village.
   B.   Authority: The board of trustees may annex property into the village by
passage of an ordinance and in accordance with applicable state statutes and
the requirements established in this chapter pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 7-1-1 et seq.
   C.   Initiation Of Annexation: The village may initiate the annexation of
property into the village by one of the following procedures:
      1.   Court supervised annexation initiated by the village with an
election in territory to be annexed: This method of annexation is applicable
when the village enacts an ordinance to annex unincorporated property into the
village and submits the annexation ordinance to the circuit court of the county
in which the majority of the property to be annexed lies. Requirements and
procedures are as follows:
         a.   The annexation ordinance enacted by the village for the purpose
of annexing unincorporated territory into the village must:
            (1)   Express the village's desire to annex property into the
village.
            (2)   Provide the legal descriptions, parcel numbers and common
addresses of the property to be annexed.
            (3)   State that the property to be annexed is contiguous and "not
within the corporate limits of any municipality" 1 .
            (4)   State that the property to be annexed does not include
territory that is in excess of ten (10) acres of land unless:
               (A)   The village has written consent from the owner(s) of
record;
               (B)   The territory is subdivided; or
               (C)   The territory is bounded on three (3) sides by lands
subdivided into lots or blocks or, if separated from such lands, by the right
of way of railroads or other public utility or public highway.
            (5)   Request that a judge of the circuit court of the county in
which the majority of the property to be annexed lies submit the question of
the annexation to the electors of the unincorporated territory 2 .
            (6)   Have an affidavit attached stating that notice has been
served on all appropriate parties.
         b.   The annexation ordinance and applicable filing fee shall be filed
with the circuit court of the county in which the majority of the property to
be annexed lies 3 .
         c.   The court will select a hearing date that is not less than twenty
(20) nor more than thirty (30) days from the date when the ordinance is filed.
         d.   Notice of hearing must:
            (1)   Be served by certified or registered mail at least twenty
(20) days prior to the hearing on each person who pays real estate taxes on
property within the territory to be annexed unless the person is a petitioner 4
.
            (2)   Be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village and in the territory to be annexed not less than fifteen (15) days nor
more than thirty (30) days before the hearing.
            (3)   Be served on all fire protection trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (4)   Be served on all library district trustees of the property to
be annexed as required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (5)   Be served on any township commissioner of highways as
required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (6)   Be served on all board of town trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
(7)         (A) State that the ordinance has been filed;
               (B)   Give a description of the territory to be annexed;
               (C)   State the village's desire to annex the property into the
village;
               (D)   State the hearing date and location; and
               (E)   Be filed with the village clerk.
         e.   The circuit court shall consider the validity of the petition
after removing any applicable property at the periphery of the territory to be
annexed 5 .
         f.   If the ordinance is deemed valid, the court shall enter an order
directing the submission of a question of annexation of the unincorporated
territory to the electors thereof at an election in accordance with general
election law 6 .
         g.   If a majority of the electors approve the annexation at the
election, the annexation is approved 7 .
         h.   If the annexation is approved, the following must be filed with
the office of the recorder of the county in which the annexed property is
located and with the McLean County recorder's office within ninety (90) days
after the annexation is approved:
            (1)   A certified copy of the annexation ordinance;
            (2)   An accurate map of the annexed territory; and
            (3)   A plat of the annexed property prepared by a registered land
surveyor or the village engineer 8 .
      2.   Nonvoluntary, nonelective method of annexation - forced annexations:
This method of annexation is applicable when the village enacts an ordinance to
annex unincorporated property into the village that is surrounded or nearly
surrounded territory that is under sixty (60) acres. Requirements and
procedures are as follows:
         a.   Territory that can be annexed by this method must have the
following characteristics:
            (1)   It must be sixty (60) acres in size or less.
            (2)   It must be wholly bounded by the village pursuant to section
7-1-13 of the Illinois municipal code 9 .
         b.   Notice of the proposed annexation by the village must:
            (1)   Be served by certified or registered mail or in person not
less than fifteen (15) days prior to passage of the annexation ordinance to the
taxpayers of record in the territory to be annexed;
            (2)   Be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village and in the territory to be annexed not less than ten (10) days prior to
passage of the annexation ordinance;
            (3)   Be served on all fire protection trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter;
            (4)   Be served on all library district trustees of the property to
be annexed as required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter;
            (5)   Be served on any township commissioner of highways as
required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter;
            (6)   Be served on all board of town trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter;
            (7)   Be served by certified or registered mail at least ten (10)
days prior to passage of the annexation ordinance to the township supervisor of
the township in which the territory to be annexed lies if the territory to be
annexed lies wholly or partially within a township other than Randolph
Township; and
            (8)   (A) State that the village intends to annex the property into
the village;
               (B)   Give a description of the territory to be annexed;
               (C)   State the date, time and place of when the proposed
annexation ordinance will be voted upon; and
               (D)   Be filed with the village clerk.
After notice has been served on all parties required by law, an affidavit that
the required notice has been made must be filed with the recorder of the county
in which the land is situated 10 .
         c.   The annexation ordinance enacted by the village for the purpose
of annexing unincorporated territory into the village must:
            (1)   Express the village's desire to annex property into the
village;
            (2)   Provide the legal descriptions, which must include the far
side of any adjacent highway and all of every highway within the area to be
annexed, parcel numbers and common addresses of the property to be annexed; and
            (3)   State that the property to be annexed is contiguous and "not
within the corporate limits of any municipality" 11 .
         d.   After passage of the annexation ordinance, the village clerk or
designee must, within ninety (90) days of passage, file the following documents
with the McLean County recorder's office:
            (1)   A certified copy of the annexation ordinance;
            (2)   An accurate map of the territory annexed; and
            (3)   A plat of the annexed property prepared by a registered land
surveyor or the village engineer 12 .
      3.   Annexation of property owned by a public body: This method of
annexation is applicable when the village annexes property owned by a public
body.
         a.   Property Owned By The State:
            (1)   The village may annex property owned by the state of Illinois
or any of its boards, agencies or commissions if:
               (A)   The village passes an ordinance annexing the property; and
               (B)   The governor of the state of Illinois or the governing
authority of the particular state board, agency, or commission approves the
annexation ordinance.
            (2)   These requirements do not apply to annexations of state
highways located within other territory to be annexed 13 .
         b.   Property Owned By The Village:
            (1)   Property owned by the village can be annexed by passage of an
ordinance annexing the property if:
               (A)   The property is contiguous;
               (B)   The property is uninhabited; and
               (C)   The property is unincorporated 14 .
            (2)   After passage of the annexation ordinance, the village clerk
or designee, within ninety (90) days of passage, must:
               (A)   File the following documents with the McLean County
recorder's office:
                  (i)   A certified copy of the annexation ordinance;
                  (ii)   An accurate map of the territory annexed; and
                  (iii)   A plat of the annexed property prepared by a
registered land surveyor or the village engineer 15 ;
               (B)   File the annexation ordinance with the McLean County
clerk; and
               (C)   File the annexation ordinance with the McLean County
election authority.
         c.   Property Used For Highway Purposes: A highway right of way under
the jurisdiction of the Illinois department of transportation or of a county or
township highway department may annex property into the village by passage of
an ordinance annexing the property 16 . After passage of the annexation
ordinance, the village clerk or designee, within ninety (90) days of passage,
must:
            (1)   File the following documents with the McLean County
recorder's office:
               (A)   A certified copy of the annexation ordinance;
               (B)   An accurate map of the territory annexed; and
               (C)   A plat of the annexed property prepared by a registered
land surveyor or the village engineer 17 ;
            (2)   File the annexation ordinance with the McLean County clerk;
and
            (3)   File the annexation ordinance with the McLean County election
authority.
         d.   Property Owned By A School District:
            (1)   Property owned by a school district can be annexed into the
village if 18 :
               (A)   The board of directors or board of education of the school
district first passes a resolution requesting annexation to the village; and
               (B)   The board of trustees, by a majority vote of the board
then holding office, enacts an ordinance providing for the annexation of the
property.
            (2)   After passage of the annexation ordinance, the village clerk
or designee, within ninety (90) days of passage, must file the following
documents with the McLean County recorder's office:
               (A)   A certified copy of the annexation ordinance;
               (B)   An accurate map of the territory annexed; and
               (C)   A plat of the annexed property prepared by a registered
land surveyor or the village engineer 19 . (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009)
 
Notes
1  2. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
2  1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-2(a).
3  2. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-2(c).
4  3. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
5  1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-3, 5/7-1-4.
6  2. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-7(a).
7  3. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-7(b).
8  4. 765 ILCS 205/1.02.
9  1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-13.
10 2. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
11 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
12 2. 765 ILCS 205/1.02.
13 3. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-2(f).
14 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-9.
15 2. 765 ILCS 205/1.02.
16 3. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-10.
17 4. 765 ILCS 205/1.02.
18 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-14.
19 2. 765 ILCS 205/1.02.
13-1-5: ANNEXATIONS INITIATED BY PROPERTY OWNERS AND ELECTORS:
   A.   Application: This section shall apply to and regulate annexations that
are initiated by the property owners and electors of property proposed to be
annexed into the village.
   B.   Authority: The board of trustees may annex property into the village by
passage of an ordinance and in accordance with applicable state statutes and
the requirements established in this section pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/7-1-1 et seq.
   C.   Initiation Of Annexation: Property owners and electors of
unincorporated property may initiate the annexation of property into the
village by one of the following procedures:
      1.   Court supervised petition for annexation initiated by owner and
electors in unincorporated territory: This method of annexation is applicable
when owners and electors present a petition for annexation to the McLean County
circuit court 1 . Requirements and procedures are as follows:
         a.   The petition must:
            (1)   Be signed by a majority of the owners of record of land in
the territory;
            (2)   Be signed by a majority of the electors, if any, residing in
the territory;
            (3)   Contain a description of the territory to be annexed;
            (4)   Allege that the territory is contiguous and is "not within
the corporate limits of any municipality";
            (5)   Request annexation into the village;
            (6)   Request the circuit court to submit the question of
annexation to the village board of trustees 2 ;
            (7)   Be filed with the appropriate fee to the McLean County
circuit clerk; and
            (8)   Have an affidavit executed by at least one petitioner
attached to the petition which verifies that the petition has been signed by
the requisite property owners and electors.
         b.   The court will select a hearing date after the petition is filed.
         c.   The hearing date, along with a description of the territory in
the petition, shall be held.
         d.   Notice of hearing must:
            (1)   Be served by certified or registered mail at least twenty
(20) days prior to the hearing on each person who pays real estate taxes on
property within the territory to be annexed unless the person is a petitioner 3
.
            (2)   Be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village and in the territory to be annexed not less than fifteen (15) days nor
more than thirty (30) days before the hearing.
            (3)   Be served on all fire protection trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (4)   Be served on all library district trustees of the property to
be annexed as required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (5)   Be served on any township commissioner of highways as
required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (6)   Be served on all board of town trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
(7)         (A) State that the ordinance has been filed;
               (B)   Give a description of the territory to be annexed;
               (C)   State the village's desire to annex the property into the
village;
               (D)   State the hearing date and location; and
               (E)   Be filed with the village clerk 4 .
         e.   The circuit court shall consider the validity of the petition
after removing any applicable property at the periphery of the territory to be
annexed 5 .
         f.   If the petition is deemed valid, the court must forward a
certified copy of the order validating the petition to the village for
consideration 6 .
         g.   If a majority of the members of the board of trustees then
holding office approves the annexation by majority vote, the annexation becomes
effective after thirty (30) days from the vote unless a referendum is requested
7 .
         h.   A referendum may be petitioned by the village board of trustees
or can be required by a petition signed by ten percent (10%) of the number of
voters voting in the last election for the mayor of the village 8 . The
decision of voters in the referendum is final, regardless of action taken by
the board of trustees.
         i.   If the annexation is approved, the filings set forth in
subsection 13-1-3E of this chapter must be filed with the McLean County
recorder's office.
      2.   Noncourt controlled annexation - voluntary nonelective method of
annexation: This method of annexation is applicable when owners and electors
present a petition for annexation to the village board of trustees 9 .
Requirements and procedures are as follows:
         a.   The petition:
            (1)   Must be signed by all of the owners of record of land in the
territory;
            (2)   Shall state that no electors reside therein or that at least
fifty one percent (51%) of such electors residing therein join in the petition;
            (3)   Must be signed by at least fifty one percent (51%) of the
electors, if any, residing in the territory;
            (4)   Must contain a description of the territory to be annexed;
            (5)   Must allege that the territory is contiguous and is "not
within the corporate limits of any municipality";
            (6)   Must request annexation into the village;
            (7)   Must be attested to under oath by the petitioner; and
            (8)   Must be filed with the village clerk for vote by the village
board of trustees.
         b.   Notice of the proposed annexation by the village must:
            (1)   Be served by certified or registered mail or in person not
less than fifteen (15) days prior to passage of the annexation ordinance to the
taxpayers of record in the territory to be annexed.
            (2)   Be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village and in the territory to be annexed not less than ten (10) days prior to
passage of the annexation ordinance.
            (3)   Be served on all fire protection trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (4)   Be served on all library district trustees of the property to
be annexed as required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (5)   Be served on any township commissioner of highways as
required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
            (6)   Be served on all board of town trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
(7)         (A) State that the village intends to annex the property into the
village;
               (B)   Give a description of the territory to be annexed;
               (C)   State the date, time and place of when the proposed
annexation ordinance will be voted upon; and
               (D)   Be filed with the village clerk.
After notice has been served on all parties required by law, an affidavit that
the required notice has been made must be filed with the recorder of the county
in which the land is situated 10 .
         c.   The annexation ordinance enacted by the village for the purpose
of annexing unincorporated territory into the village must:
            (1)   Express the village's desire to annex property into the
village.
            (2)   Provide the legal descriptions, which must include the far
side of any adjacent highway and all of every highway within the area to be
annexed, parcel numbers and common addresses of the property to be annexed.
            (3)   State that the property to be annexed is contiguous and "not
within the corporate limits of any municipality" 11 .
         d.   If a majority of the members of the board of trustees then
holding office approves the annexation by majority vote, the annexation becomes
effective after the filings set forth in subsection 13-1-3E of this chapter are
filed with the McLean County recorder's office.
      3.   Voluntary, nonelective method of annexation of territory surrounded
by two (2) or more municipalities: This method of annexation is applicable when
the village enacts an ordinance to annex unincorporated property that is
surrounded by two (2) or more municipalities into the village and submits the
annexation ordinance to the circuit court of the county in which the majority
of the property to be annexed lies.
         a.   Requirements: The board of trustees may adopt an ordinance that
annexes property that is surrounded by two (2) or more municipalities into the
village if:
            (1)   The majority of the property owners of the property to be
annexed sign a petition for annexation on a petition provided by the village.
            (2)   The public hearing as is required herein is held at least ten
(10) days prior to passage of the annexation ordinance.
            (3)   The property being annexed, if annexed, does not increase the
territory of the village by more than one-third (1/3) of the village's
preannexation territory size 12 .
         b.   Procedure:
            (1)   The petition:
               (A)   Must be signed by all of the owners of record of land in
the territory;
               (B)   Shall state that no electors reside therein or that at
least fifty one percent (51%) of such electors residing therein join in the
petition;
               (C)   Must be signed by at least fifty one percent (51%) of the
electors, if any, residing in the territory;
               (D)   Must contain a description of the territory to be annexed;
               (E)   Must allege that the territory is contiguous and is "not
within the corporate limits of any municipality";
               (F)   Must request annexation into the village;
               (G)   Must be attested to under oath by the petitioner; and
               (H)   Must be filed with the village clerk for vote by the
village board of trustees.
            (2)   Notice of the proposed annexation by the village must:
               (A)   Be served by certified or registered mail or in person not
less than fifteen (15) days prior to passage of the annexation ordinance to the
taxpayers of record in the territory to be annexed.
               (B)   Be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village and in the territory to be annexed not less than ten (10) days prior to
passage of the annexation ordinance.
               (C)   Be served on all fire protection trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
               (D)   Be served on all library district trustees of the property
to be annexed as required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
               (E)   Be served on any township commissioner of highways as
required in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
               (F)   Be served on all board of town trustees as required in
section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
               (G)   (i) State that the village intends to annex the property
into the village;
                  (ii)   Give a description of the territory to be annexed;
                  (iii)   State the date, time and place of when the proposed
annexation ordinance will be voted upon; and
                  (iv)   Be filed with the village clerk.
After notice has been served on all parties required by law, an affidavit that
the required notice has been made must be filed with the recorder of the county
in which the land is situated 13 .
            (3)   The annexation ordinance enacted by the village for the
purpose of annexing unincorporated territory into the village must:
               (A)   Express the village's desire to annex property into the
village.
               (B)   Provide the legal descriptions, which must include the far
side of any adjacent highway and all of every highway within the area to be
annexed, parcel numbers and common addresses of the property to be annexed.
               (C)   State that the property to be annexed is contiguous and
"not within the corporate limits of any municipality" 14 .
            (4)   If a majority of the members of the board of trustees then
holding office approves the annexation by majority vote, the annexation becomes
effective after the filings set forth in subsection 13-1-3E of this chapter are
filed with the McLean County recorder's office. (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009)
 
Notes
1  1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1 et seq.
2  2. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-2(a).
3  3. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
4  1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-2(b).
5  2. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-3, 5/7-1-4.
6  3. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-5.
7  4. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-7(b).
8  5. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-6(b).
9  1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-8.
10 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
11 2. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
12 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-12.
13 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
14 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-1-1.
13-1-6: ANNEXATION AGREEMENTS:
   A.   The village may enter into an annexation agreement with one or more of
the owners of record of land in unincorporated territory subject to the
following provisions; provided, however, that any public hearings required by
law to be held before the adoption of any ordinance amendment provided in such
agreement shall be held prior to the execution of the agreement, and all
ordinance amendments provided in such agreement shall be enacted according to
law:
      1.   Filing:
         a.   All annexation agreements must be filed with the village clerk
and shall be reviewed by the economic development committee of the village.
         b.   Each agreement:
            (1)   Shall be accompanied by the required filing fee per section
13-1-9 of this chapter;
            (2)   Shall be accompanied by any notice fees the village may have
to incur;
            (3)   Shall state the effective date and duration of the annexation
agreement, which may not exceed twenty (20) years in duration from the date of
execution of the agreement;
            (4)   Shall provide the legal description, parcel number and common
address of the property subject to annexation;
            (5)   Shall state the name and address of all owners of record of
the property subject to annexation, and proposed land developers and any
beneficiaries of a land trust of the subject property;
            (6)   Shall state the current zoning and proposed zoning of the
property;
            (7)   Shall state whether the agreement shall be binding upon the
successor owners of record of the land which is the subject of the agreement
and shall state such in the agreement;
            (8)   Shall have a provision stating either:
               (A)   That petitions for annexation will be filed with such
other units of local government and diligently pursued to a final decision; or
               (B)   Petitions will be filed to annex such property to such
other units of local government and diligently pursued to a final decision
within ninety (90) days of the date of notification by such other units of
local government that such property meets the statutory qualifications for
annexation to such other units of local government; and
            (9)   Shall contain any other provision or language required by
this chapter or by law.
         c.   The agreement may be entered into when the property is not
contiguous to the village and shall be considered a preannexation agreement.
         d.   The agreement may provide for the following as it relates to the
land which is the subject of the agreement:
            (1)   The continuation in effect, or amendment, or continuation in
effect as amended, of any ordinance relating to:
               (A)   The subdivision regulations found in title 12 of this
code;
               (B)   The zoning ordinance found in title 11 of this code;
               (C)   Any official comprehensive plans adopted by the village;
               (D)   The building, housing and related restrictions found in
titles 8, 9 and 10 of this code;
            (2)   Limitations upon increases in permit fees required by the
village;
            (3)   Abatement of property taxes;
            (4)   Granting of utility franchises for such land; and
            (5)   Any other matter neither inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter nor forbidden by law.
      2.   Hearing: The village economic development committee shall hold a
public hearing upon the proposed annexation agreement or amendment to an
annexation agreement with notice of the public hearing being published not more
than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing
at least once in one or more newspapers published in the village and posted as
required by law. After the public hearing, the economic development committee
shall make a recommendation to the village board on the proposed annexation
agreement with the recommendation being based on review and application of the
following standards:
         a.   The suitability of the subject property for uses authorized by
the existing zoning;
         b.   The length of time the property has remained vacant as zoned
considered in the context of land development in the area;
         c.   The suitability of the subject property for uses authorized by
the proposed zoning;
         d.   The existing land uses of nearby property;
         e.   Existing zoning of nearby property, relative gain or hardship to
the public as contrasted and compared to the hardship or gain of the individual
property owner resulting from the approval or denial of the zoning amendment
application;
         f.   The extent to which adequate streets connected to the arterial
street system are available or can be reasonably supplied to serve the uses
permitted in the proposed zoning classification;
         g.   The extent to which the proposed amendment is consistent with the
need to minimize flood damage and whether the development of the subject
property for uses permitted in the proposed zoning classification would have a
substantial detrimental effect on the drainage patterns in the area;
         h.   The extent to which adequate services (including, but not limited
to, fire and police protection, schools, water supply and sewage disposal
facilities) are available or can be supplied to serve the uses permitted in the
proposed zoning classification; and
         i.   The extent to which the proposed amendment is consistent with the
public interest, giving due consideration for the purpose and intent of this
chapter, including the following specific purposes:
            (1)   To conserve and protect the taxable value of land and
structures;
            (2)   To protect the air, water and land resources within the
village from the hazards of pollution and misuse;
            (3)   To protect land and structures from natural hazards,
including flooding and erosion;
            (4)   To preserve and protect historic locations, structures and
groups of structures;
            (5)   To preserve and protect and encourage the development of
structures, groups of structures and neighborhoods of distinctive architectural
character and appearance;
            (6)   To provide for the orderly and functional arrangement of land
uses and structures;
            (7)   To establish standards for the orderly development or
redevelopment of geographic areas within the village;
            (8)   To secure for the public locations for housing, employment,
shopping, education and recreation that are adequate in terms of health,
safety, convenience and number;
            (9)   To facilitate the adequate provision of transportation,
water, sewage disposal, schools, parks and other public facilities;
            (10)   To conserve and protect natural resources including prime
agricultural land, mineral resources and areas of scientific interest; (Ord.
2009-113, 9-21-2009)
            (11)   To permit public involvement in the planning of private land
uses which have the potential for significant impact on the use and enjoyment
of surrounding property or on the public resources and facilities of the
village; and (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009; amd. 2011 Code)
            (12)   To promote any official comprehensive plan adopted by the
village.
      3.   Amendments: Any annexation agreement may be modified after the
public hearing and before adoption by the village board of trustees.
      4.   Ordinance: Any annexation agreement must be approved by ordinance by
a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the members of the village board of
trustees then holding office. When considering the annexation ordinance the
village board of trustees shall consider:
         a.   The facts presented at the public hearing;
         b.   The recommendation of the economic development committee; and
         c.   The recommendations of the professional staff of the village.
   B.   The village may approve the agreement as written, with modifications,
or reject it. If modifications are a condition of the approval of the
agreement, such modifications need not be made at that time. Execution of the
agreement may occur at any time after any required modifications are made, and
such agreement, as modified, shall be printed in the minutes of the first board
meeting after execution. (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009)
13-1-7: DISCONNECTIONS:
   A.   Application: This section shall apply to and regulate disconnections of
property located in the village and to be removed from the village.
   B.   Disconnections By The Village: The village may disconnect territory
that is on the border of the corporate limits and within the village as follows
1 :
      1.   Filing a petition for disconnection with the village clerk. The
petition must:
         a.   Be signed by the owners of record of a majority of the territory;
         b.   Be filed at least thirty (30) days before it is considered for
vote on an ordinance to disconnect; and
         c.   Be accompanied by a certificate of the McLean County clerk
indicating that all taxes or assessments due have been paid in full.
      2.   A majority vote of the village board of trustees then in office must
approve an ordinance to disconnect. The village board of trustees, when
determining whether disconnection is appropriate, shall consider whether the
disconnection will:
         a.   Result in the isolation of any remaining part of the village;
         b.   Disrupt the growth prospects and planning and zoning ordinances
of the village;
         c.   Disrupt existing municipal services; and
         d.   Unduly harm the village through undue loss of tax revenue in the
future.
      3.   If the ordinance to disconnect is approved, the village clerk or
designee must file a certified copy of the disconnection ordinance with the
McLean County clerk and the McLean County recorder within ninety (90) days of
the passage of the disconnection ordinance 2 .
   C.   Disconnection By Court Procedure: The owners of record of one or more
tracts of land lying within the village may petition the court for
disconnection of that territory as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/7-3-6.
   D.   Disconnection And Annexation To Contiguous Municipalities:
Disconnections from the village while simultaneously annexing into another
municipality are subject to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
7-1-24 through 5/7-1-28. (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-3-4.
2 1. 65 ILCS 5/7-3-5.
13-1-8: REQUIRED DOCUMENTS:
   A.   All persons desiring to annex or disconnect property to or from the
village shall furnish to the village clerk the following:
      1.   Completed petition for annexation or disconnection, including the
legal description of the property to be annexed or disconnected;
      2.   The current and proposed zoning classification of the property;
      3.   Two (2) mylar drawings and five (5) copies of the area to be annexed
or disconnected, drawn clearly and legibly by a registered Illinois land
surveyor or registered professional engineer;
      4.   An affidavit of notice to any fire protection district and, if
applicable, to any township highway commissioner and board of trustees of the
township from any of which the property is proposed to be disconnected; and
      5.   The real estate index number of the property, area thereof, most
recent equalized assessed valuation of the property to be annexed and the last
year's real property tax levied by the rural township on the property, both for
corporate purposes and for road and bridge tax.
   B.   No annexation or disconnection ordinance will be acted upon by the
village board of trustees unless such information is furnished by the
petitioner. (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009)
13-1-9: FEES:
All petitions for annexation shall be filed in the office of the village clerk
and be accompanied by a fee receipt reflecting payment to the village treasurer
of the appropriate following fees:
   A.   Annexations without an annexation agreement shall be five hundred
dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Annexations with an annexation agreement shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   C.   Disconnections shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-08, 2-4-2021)
13-1-10: EXCEPTIONS:
The requirements of this chapter may be waived by the village board of trustees
if:
   A.   There exists now and will likely exist for the indefinite future, a
legal impediment to annexation to any of the other units of local government,
to the extent necessitated by such impediment; or
   B.   The property is being annexed without the consent of the owners or
occupants thereof pursuant to any section of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-
1-1 et seq.; or
   C.   A request for a waiver is filed by another unit of local government; or
   D.   Failure to grant the waiver would impede attainment of the purposes of
this chapter, the orderly development and enjoyment of property, or the welfare
of the village; or
   E.   The property has already been annexed to another unit of local
government; or
   F.   A majority of the members of the board of trustees vote to waive the
requirement(s). (Ord. 2009-113, 9-21-2009)
