CITY CODE
of
HIGHWOOD, ILLINOIS
2009
Code current through:
Ord. 24-O-17, passed 12-3-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Highwood, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 24-O-17, passed December 3, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
Â 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-O-25
Â Â Â AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF HIGHWOOD, ILLINOIS
Â Â Â WHEREAS, the city of Highwood has never had a municipal code in the over one
hundred years since its founding; and,
Â Â Â WHEREAS, the mayor and city council find that the existence of a unified
city code is essential to the efficient operation of government; and,
Â Â Â WHEREAS, the mayor and city council find that adoption and maintenance of a
unified city code are essential for permitting residents to have convenient and
logical access to city regulations; and,
Â Â Â WHEREAS, the mayor and city council find that having a unified city code
accessible on the internet furthers the goal of convenient public access to
government; and,
Â Â Â WHEREAS, the city of Highwood has caused the ordinances identified on
exhibit A attached to ordinance 2009-O-25 to be reviewed, organized and
assembled into a unified city code; and,
Â Â Â WHEREAS, the mayor and city council find that adoption and maintenance of a
unified city code is necessary for the further promotion of the public health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the city of Highwood.
Â Â Â NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HIGHWOOD,
LAKE COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION ONE:Â The mayor and city council of the city of Highwood adopt hereby
the city code of Highwood, Illinois which is attached to this ordinance as
exhibit B and is wholly incorporated herein as if fully set forth. The city
code of Highwood, Illinois shall be known and cited as the HIGHWOOD CITY CODE.
SECTION TWO:Â That all ordinances or resolutions in conflict with the provisions
of this ordinance are hereby repealed, except for the following which shall not
be affected in any way by the passage and adoption of this ordinance:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All ordinances specified in title 1, chapter 2 of the Highwood city
code;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any ordinance adopted after September 16, 2008;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any ordinance adopting a zoning map, map amendment or granting any
zoning relief related to specific property;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the city, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any
evidence of the city's indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by
the city;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any ordinance dedicating, approving or accepting any plat or
subdivision;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Any ordinance of general applicability not identified on exhibit A and
not otherwise superseded by law or ordinance of the city.
SECTION THREE:Â The city clerk is directed to publish this ordinance in pamphlet
form and to maintain copies of the Highwood city code which are available for
inspection at city hall. The city manager is directed to take steps to ensure
that the Highwood city code is accessible on the internet.
SECTION FOUR:Â This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form.
PASSED this 16th day of June, 2009.
AYES:  8  NAYS: Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  ABSENT: Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  ABSTAIN:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
APPROVED this 16th day of June, 2009.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â /s/Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â CHARLES PECARO
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Mayor, City of Highwood
ATTEST:
/s/Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Marcia Burke, City Clerk
Â Â Â CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS:
                   AYES:    NAYS:    ABSENT:  ABSTAIN
Frank Bruni        Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Quintin Sepulveda  Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Lenny Cahnmann     Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Larry Harpster     Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Louise Linari      Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Kathy Murphy-Pieri Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Michael Fiore      Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Eric Falberg       Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â 
Â Â Â Published in pamphlet form June 16, 2009
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
HIGHWOOD CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Highwood. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the HIGHWOOD CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2009 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2009 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (2009 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed by the mayor and city council prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in this chapter), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tax levy ordinances;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Appropriation ordinances;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Salary ordinances;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Improvement ordinances;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Bond ordinances;
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Ordinances relating to elections;
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â All special ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2009 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2009 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If any section or provision of this code, or any codes or portions of
codes adopted herein by reference, are declared by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted
herein by reference, other than the part declared to be invalid. Each section
or provision of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by
reference, shall be deemed separate, and the invalidity of any section or
provision of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by
reference, shall not affect the validity of, or affect, impair or invalidate
the remainder. In the event any section or provision of this code, or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance, shall for any reason be adjudged by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect, impair or
invalidate the remainder of this code, or any codes or portions of codes
adopted herein by reference, or their application.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If any section or provision of this code, or any codes or portions of
codes adopted herein by reference, is capable of two (2) constructions, one of
which would render any section or provision of this code, or any codes or
portions of codes adopted herein by reference, invalid as to such section or
provision of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by
reference, and the other of which would make the agreement valid as to such
section or provision of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted
herein by reference, then the section or provision of this code, or any codes
or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, shall have the meaning which
renders any section or provision of this code, or any codes or portions of
codes adopted herein by reference, valid. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Highwood".
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto. Any words not defined as follows shall be first reviewed to
determine if they are defined by application of another city code provision
(i.e., property maintenance, zoning, building), otherwise, they shall be
construed in their general accepted meaning as defined by Webster's Dictionary.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Highwood, county of Lake, state of Illinois.
CODE: The city code of the city of Highwood.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Highwood.
COUNTY: The county of Lake, state of Illinois.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: An improved or unimproved strip of land dedicated for public use,
primarily intended to be occupied or presently occupied by a street, roadway,
alley, sidewalk, parkway, public utility line or any other public use such as a
bicycle or walking path.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2009 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2009
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Penalty Imposed: In the event that a provision of this Code or
any ordinance of the City does not provide for any penalty or out of court
settlement for violation thereof, the following provisions shall apply: Any
person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of any provision
of this Code or any ordinance of the City for which another penalty is not
specifically provided for shall be fined not less than the general penalties
and fines as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. Each day that such offense continues shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fees, Costs And Expenses: In addition to any penalty or fine levied
under this Code or any ordinance of the City, any person, partnership, firm,
entity or corporation found to be in violation of any provision of this Code or
any ordinance of the City shall pay any and all reasonable attorney fees
incurred by the City in the enforcement of this Code or any ordinance of the
City. Further, in the event the City deems it necessary to bring any court
action to enforce any provision of this Code or any City ordinance, there shall
be assessed against any person, partnership, firm or corporation found to be in
violation of this Code or any ordinance, all reasonable costs, expenses and
attorney fees incurred by the City in bringing said action, in addition to the
fines provided herein.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Additional Sanctions: In addition to any penalty or fine levied under
any court disposition or adjudication for a violation of any provision of this
Code or any ordinance of the City, the court shall be authorized to consider
any disposition authorized or permitted pursuant to the applicable Statutes of
the State, including, but not limited to, imposition of community service,
court supervision, and/or restitution. The imposition of a sentence of
imprisonment shall not be authorized pursuant to this subsection. A sentence of
imprisonment shall be authorized only if specifically referenced in the penalty
section of the applicable provision of this Code or the applicable ordinance of
the City, or otherwise authorized pursuant to State Statute due to the
enactment of any provision of this Code or any ordinance of the City. (Ord. 99-
O-09, 2-16-1999; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2009 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2009
Code)
CHAPTER 5
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-5-1: System Established; Application
1-5-2: State Regulations Adopted
1-5-3: Nonexclusive Procedures
1-5-4: Administrative Composition
1-5-5: Violation Notice
1-5-6: Hearings And Decisions
1-5-7: Judicial Review
1-5-8: Debt To City
1-5-9: Enforcement Of Judgments
1-5-1: SYSTEM ESTABLISHED; APPLICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â There is hereby established and created within the city an
administrative hearing system to enforce and adjudicate violations
("violations") of the following city ordinances and provisions of this code, as
the same have been, and may from time to time hereafter be, amended:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Section
7-2-4, "Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment", of this code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Subsection
6-5D-1B, "Possession Of Less Than Ten Grams Of Cannabis", of this code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All violations of city building, fire, mechanical, fuel gas,
property maintenance, energy conservation, residential, electrical and plumbing
codes under title 10, chapter 1 of this code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â All violations of city housing code under title 10, chapter 2 of
this code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â All violations of city appearance code under title 10, chapter 3 of
this code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Such other city ordinances and code provisions as the mayor and city
council may from time to time designate.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The provisions of this chapter shall apply to administrative
adjudication proceedings to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of any city ordinance which sets forth specific procedures for the
administrative adjudication of particular ordinance provisions. (Ord. 13-O-40,
6-18-2013)
1-5-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The provisions of division 2.1 of article 1 of the Illinois municipal code are
hereby adopted and incorporated into this chapter as if fully set forth herein
1 . (Ord. 2008-O-30, 9-16-2008)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1 et seq.
1-5-3: NONEXCLUSIVE PROCEDURES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not preclude the city from using other
methods or proceedings to enforce and adjudicate this code or other ordinances
of the city, including, without limitation, the institution of an action in the
Lake County circuit court, the United States district court, or any
administrative proceeding. (Ord. 2008-O-30, 9-16-2008)
1-5-4: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The administrative hearing system shall provide for one or more hearing
officers and a code hearing unit, all with the power, authority, and
limitations as set forth in this chapter.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Hearing Officer:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Appointment: The city administrator shall appoint one or more
qualified hearing officers to perform the functions set forth in this
subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Independent Contractor; Removal: A hearing officer shall be employed
as an independent contractor of the city and shall not be considered an
employee of the city. A hearing officer may be removed, with or without cause,
by the city administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Qualifications: To qualify as a hearing officer, an individual must:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Be an attorney licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois
for at least three (3) years;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Be in good standing with the Illinois supreme court attorney
registration and disciplinary commission;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Complete a formal training program approved by the city
administrator and the city attorney consisting of:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Instruction on the rules of procedure for administrative
hearings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Orientation to each subject area of this code that will be
adjudicated;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Observation of hearings conducted by Illinois municipalities
that have adopted the administrative hearing system; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Participation in hypothetical hearings, including ruling on
evidence and issuance of final orders.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Compensation: Authorization for compensation for a hearing officer
shall be made by the mayor and city council through the city's annual budget
process. Compensation shall be determined by the city administrator within
approved budget limitations. (Ord. 2008-O-30, 9-16-2008)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Authority And Powers: Hearing officers shall have all powers
necessary to conduct fair and impartial hearings including, but not limited to,
the power to: (Ord. 2008-O-30, 9-16-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the
issues;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Administer oaths and affirmations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
allegation of a violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Issue subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing, including
all exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Issue a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, on whether a violation occurred or exists. The hearing officer's
determination shall be in writing and shall include a written finding of fact,
decision, and order, including the fine, penalty, or other action with which
the defendant must comply; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Impose penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assess costs upon finding a defendant liable for the charged violation, except
as expressly provided in this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Code Hearing Unit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Appointment: The city administrator shall establish a code hearing
unit to perform the functions set forth in this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Authority And Jurisdiction: This code hearing unit is hereby
authorized, empowered, and directed to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Recommend rules and regulations reasonably required to manage the
administrative hearing system;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Adopt, distribute, and process all notices as may be required
under this chapter or as may reasonably be required to carry out the purpose of
this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Collect payments made as a result of fines and/or penalties
assessed after a final determination of liability;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Certify copies of final determinations of violations adjudicated
pursuant to this chapter and any factual reports verifying the final
determination of any liability that was issued in accordance with this chapter
or the laws of the state of Illinois, as from time to time amended; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
hearings, pleas entered, fines, and other penalties assessed and paid. (Ord.
2008-O-30, 9-16-2008)
1-5-5: VIOLATION NOTICE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority To Issue:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A notice of any violation ("violation notice") shall be issued by
the persons authorized under this chapter, shall contain information as to the
nature of the violation, shall be certified, and shall constitute prima facie
evidence of the violation cited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All full time and part time police officers, as well as other
specifically authorized individuals of any department of the city, shall have
the authority to issue violation notices.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any individual authorized to issue violation notices who detects a
violation is authorized to issue a violation notice therefor and shall serve
the violation notice in the manner set forth in this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Certification Of Contents: The correctness of facts contained in any
violation notice shall be certified by the person issuing the notice through
signing his or her name to the violation notice at the time of issuance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Service Procedure:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Service of any violation notice shall be made as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee of
the vehicle, if present; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Handing the notice to the person responsible for the ordinance
violation; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Mailing the notice by certified mail to the person responsible
for the ordinance violation; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If service of notice is provided by mail for any violation notice or
for any hearing notice, said service shall be deemed sent and shall be complete
on the date the notice is deposited, postage prepaid, in the United States
mail. The counting of any time period as set forth in this code shall begin to
run on the date the notice is deposited, postage prepaid, in the United States
mail.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Records Of Notices: The code hearing unit shall retain the original or
a facsimile of the violation notice and keep it as a record in the ordinary
course of business.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Use In Court Proceedings: The violation notice or a copy thereof shall
be admissible in any subsequent administrative or judicial proceeding to the
extent permitted by law. (Ord. 2008-O-30, 9-16-2008)
1-5-6: HEARINGS AND DECISIONS:
All hearings conducted under the administrative hearing system shall be
conducted by a hearing officer and shall be in accordance with the following
rules and procedures:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A record of the hearing shall be made by tape recording or other
appropriate means.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The parties may be represented by counsel, present witnesses, and cross
examine opposing witnesses.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The hearing officer may grant continuances only upon a finding of good
cause.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Parties may request the hearing officer to issue, and the hearing
officer shall have the authority to issue, subpoenas to direct the attendance
and testimony of relevant witnesses and produce relevant documents.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply. Evidence,
including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon
by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â In a hearing on the propriety of impoundment of a vehicle, any sworn or
affirmed report, citation or ticket that: 1) is prepared in the performance of
a law enforcement officer's duties; and 2) sufficiently describes the
circumstances leading to the impoundment, shall be admissible evidence of the
vehicle owner's liability, unless rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Each hearing shall culminate in a determination of liability or
nonliability by the hearing officer or a determination of liability based upon
the failure of the defendant to appear at the hearing.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â The hearing officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess
fines and penalties in accordance with this code. In addition, the hearing
officer shall have the discretion to assess costs upon finding a defendant
liable for the charged violation. In no event shall the hearing officer have
authority to: 1) impose a penalty of incarceration; or 2) impose a fine in
excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a violation.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The maximum monetary fine imposed under this code shall be exclusive of
costs of enforcement or costs incurred by the city to secure compliance with
this code and city ordinances, and shall not be applicable in cases to enforce
the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the city. (Ord. 2008-O-30,
9-16-2008)
1-5-7: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a violation does or does not exist
shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review and
shall be subject to review under the Illinois administrative review law, 735
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (Ord. 2008-O-30, 9-16-2008)
1-5-8: DEBT TO CITY:
Any fine or penalty, or part of any fine or penalty, assessed in accordance
with the provisions of this code and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of,
or the failure to exhaust, administrative procedures under this chapter and the
conclusion of any judicial review procedures, shall be a debt due and owing the
city and, as such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law. (Ord.
2008-O-30, 9-16-2008)
1-5-9: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â After expiration of the period that judicial review under the Illinois
administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of any
violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the findings,
decision, and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the same manner
as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prior to any expenses being fixed by the hearing officer pursuant to
this section, the city shall provide a notice to the defendant that states that
the defendant shall appear at a hearing before the hearing officer to determine
whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall
set the date for such hearing that shall not be less than seven (7) days from
the date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7) day
period shall begin to run on the date that the notice is deposited in the mail.
(Ord. 2008-O-30, 9-16-2008)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Home Rule Powers; Policy Guidelines
1-6-2: Public Records Requests
1-6-3: Closed Session Minutes And Verbatim Records Policy
1-6-1: HOME RULE POWERS; POLICY GUIDELINES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â For any ordinance imposing a tax on any person or property in the city
that is not authorized under the provisions of the Illinois municipal code for
municipalities that are not home rule units, the city council will include a
statement as to the intended use of such tax proceeds. In addition, prior to
adoption of such a home rule tax ordinance, a public forum shall be conducted
as part of a city council meeting at which members of the public shall be given
the right to speak. Notice of this public forum shall be posted at the city
hall and on the city's website.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The adoption of any ordinance that is not authorized under the
provisions of the Illinois municipal code for municipalities that are not home
rule units shall require the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3)
of the aldermen then holding office. In addition, a copy of any such proposed
ordinance shall be made available for public inspection at the Highwood Library
and city hall prior to adoption.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The interpretation and application of this section shall be within the
sole discretion of the city council, which decision shall be final.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this section, any ordinance, motion
or resolution hereafter adopted by action of the city council shall not be
invalidated, impaired or affected in any way by noncompliance or alleged
noncompliance with any one or more provisions of this section. (Ord. 2006-O-34,
10-17-2006, eff. 11-8-2006)
1-6-2: PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS:
The following procedures and regulations are hereby adopted regarding requests
of public records pursuant to the Illinois freedom of information act:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â Â Â BUSINESS HOURS: Eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
on a working day.
Â Â Â WORKING DAY: Any day on which the city hall is open and staffed for regular
public business during business hours. "Working days" are generally Monday
through Friday, except recognized legal holidays.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interpretation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â These FOIA rules are intended to implement the provisions of the
freedom of information act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et seq.,
hereinafter referred to as the "act", as amended.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If any provision of these FOIA rules is deemed illegal or
unenforceable, all other provisions and the application thereof shall remain
unaffected to the extent permitted by law.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Requesting Public Records: Requests for public records shall be
submitted, in writing, to the freedom of information officer or the freedom of
information officer's designee at the Highwood City Hall, 17 Highwood Avenue,
Highwood, IL 60040. The form that is available can be obtained at
www.cityofhighwood.com or at the Highwood City Hall, 17 Highwood Avenue,
Highwood, IL 60040, during normal business hours. Any request delivered at a
time other than normal business hours shall be deemed to be received on the
next business day.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Establishment: The assistant city manager shall be the freedom of
information officer as required in section 3.5 of the freedom of information
act on and after January 1, 2010 1 . In the absence or vacancy of the assistant
city manager, the city manager shall be the freedom of information officer. In
the temporary absence of both the assistant city manager and the city manager,
the city manager shall designate an employee of the city to act as the freedom
of information officer.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Designees: The assistant city manager may designate an individual or
individuals to receive requests under the freedom of information act. Such
designation is subject to the approval of the city manager.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Duties Of Freedom Of Information Officer: Except in instances when
records are furnished immediately, the freedom of information officer, or his/
her designee, shall receive requests submitted to the city under the freedom of
information act, ensure that the city responds to requests in a timely fashion,
and issue responses under the freedom of information act. The freedom of
information officer shall develop a list of documents or categories of records
that the city shall immediately disclose upon request. Upon receiving a request
for a public record, the freedom of information officer shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Note the date the city receives the written request;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until the request has been complied
with or denied;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Denials And Exemptions: In issuing responses, the freedom of
information officer shall consult with the city attorney, city manager and
other appropriate city employees to determine whether items are exempt from
disclosure or whether exempt matter should be redacted as part of a response to
a freedom of information request. In all instances where the freedom of
information act allows the "public body" to deny or redact information which is
exempt from disclosure, the freedom of information officer shall have the
authority to make such determinations upon his or her consultation with the
city attorney and city administrator as set forth above.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Training: The assistant city manager and city manager shall comply with
the training requirements set forth in the freedom of information act.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â FOIA Fees: The freedom of information officer shall charge the fees set
forth in section
3-2A-1 of this code for copying documents.
The freedom of information officer may waive or reduce the fees upon a finding
by the freedom of information officer that the request is in the public
interest as set forth in section 6 of the freedom of information act. (Ord. 15-
O-34, 6-2-2015)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/3.5.
1-6-3: CLOSED SESSION MINUTES AND VERBATIM RECORDS POLICY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Background And Purpose: The open meetings act requires all public
bodies to keep minutes of their meetings, whether opened or closed. With the
adoption of amendments to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.06, public bodies
also must maintain a verbatim record of all closed meetings in the form of an
audio or video recording. This section sets forth specific procedures to ensure
that the city council and all committees of the council, other boards, other
committees, commissions, and other bodies of the city that are subject to the
open meetings act ("subsidiary bodies") comply with the requirements for closed
sessions.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Closed Meeting Minutes: Minutes of a closed meeting shall comply with
the same requirements applicable to minutes for an open meeting. They shall
include, at a minimum, the date, time, and place of the meeting; the members of
the public body that are present and those that are absent; a summary of
discussion on all matters proposed, deliberated, or decided; and a record of
any votes taken. The open meetings act exemption or exemptions applicable to
the closed session should be identified in the minutes of the closed session.
Minutes of closed meetings shall not be released for public inspection to the
extent that there is a need to preserve confidentiality of matters stated in
those minutes.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Closed Meeting Verbatim Records: A verbatim record of each closed
meeting is required and shall be subject to the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Recordings: Verbatim records shall be made by audio or video
recording. Each recording shall be labeled with the name of the meeting body
and the date, time, and place of the meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Confidentiality: All verbatim records of closed meetings are hereby
declared to be confidential and not subject to release except pursuant to this
subsection or as required by law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Duties Of Clerk Or Designee: The clerk, or her or his designee,
shall be responsible for creating the verbatim record. After a closed meeting,
the verbatim record shall be delivered immediately to the clerk for storage in
a secure location within the city hall. The clerk shall be responsible for
maintaining, storing, and restricting access to all verbatim records.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Access To Verbatim Records: No individual, nor the city council, nor
any subsidiary body shall have access to any verbatim record of any closed
session unless approved by one of the following specific methods:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Individuals: Unless otherwise required by law, no individual,
including any member of the city council or any subsidiary body shall have
access to any verbatim record unless specifically approved by an affirmative
majority vote of the city council taken at an open meeting. An individual who
is granted the right to access a verbatim record shall do so only at the city
hall and in the presence of the clerk or his/her designee. No verbatim record
shall be copied or taken out of the city hall except as specifically allowed in
this subsection or as otherwise required by law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Subsidiary Bodies: A subsidiary body may access a verbatim record
of one of its closed meetings only by an affirmative majority vote, taken at an
open meeting, of all members of that subsidiary body then holding office. A
subsidiary body shall review a verbatim record only at a duly noticed closed
meeting of that subsidiary body.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â City Council: The city council may access a verbatim record of
one of its closed meetings or of a closed meeting of any subsidiary body only
by an affirmative majority vote of the city council taken at an open meeting.
The city council shall review a verbatim record only at a duly noticed closed
meeting of the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Clerk: The clerk shall have access at all times to all verbatim
records for the purpose of ensuring their proper care and protection. The clerk
may review a verbatim record, however, only if authorized to do so by an
affirmative majority vote of the city council taken at an open meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Court: If the city is directed by a court order issued in
accordance with 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.06 to deliver a verbatim
record, then the clerk or his/her designee shall deliver the relevant verbatim
record to the court, after that record has been reviewed by the city attorney.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Verbatim Record Not Official Record: A verbatim record shall not be
part of the official public record of any meeting. Rather, the approved minutes
are to be deemed the official record of the meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Notification Of Destruction Of Verbatim Record: Verbatim records may
be destroyed where approved by an affirmative majority vote of the city
council, in compliance with the act; or in the alternative, on a regular basis,
the clerk shall provide a written notice listing all verbatim records that are
scheduled for destruction (the "notice of destruction"). The notice shall be in
a form substantially the same as the form attached as exhibit A to the
ordinance codified herein. The notice shall be given to: a) the mayor and
aldermen; b) the members of the subsidiary body (if the verbatim record was
created at a closed meeting of that subsidiary body); and c) the city attorney.
The notice shall include a copy of the approved minutes for each verbatim
record scheduled for destruction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Objection To Destruction:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Deadline For Objection: A written objection to the destruction of
a verbatim record shall be filed with the clerk within seven (7) days after the
date of a notice of destruction, or at least three (3) days before the
destruction date set forth in that notice, whichever is later.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Who May Object: The mayor or any alderman may object to the
destruction of any verbatim record of a closed session of the city council or
of any subsidiary body. A member of a subsidiary body may object to destruction
of a verbatim record only of a closed session of that subsidiary body.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Destruction Of Verbatim Record If No Objection: Unless a timely
written objection to the destruction of a verbatim record is filed with the
clerk in accordance with subsection C7 of this section, the clerk shall erase
or otherwise destroy each verbatim record listed in the notice of destruction
on the date set forth in the notice. No verbatim record shall be erased or
otherwise destroyed unless the clerk certifies that: a) the verbatim record was
created at a closed meeting that was concluded at least eighteen (18) months
prior to the date of destruction; and b) there exists approved minutes of that
closed meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Procedure When Objection: The following procedure shall apply when a
timely objection to destruction is received by the clerk:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Notice Of Objection: The clerk shall promptly send notice of the
objection to all parties who received the notice of destruction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Deliberation On Objection: At a closed session of the city
council or subsidiary body scheduled promptly after receipt of an objection,
the city council or subsidiary body shall determine whether destruction of the
verbatim record should be delayed. That decision shall require the vote set
forth in subsection C9c of this section. If the required vote to delay
destruction is not obtained, then the verbatim record shall be destroyed
immediately by the clerk in accordance with subsection C8 of this section;
provided, however, that no verbatim record of a subsidiary body shall be
destroyed if either the subsidiary body or the city council votes to delay its
destruction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Required Vote To Delay Destruction: The destruction of a verbatim
record shall be delayed only if: 1) the city council, by an affirmative
majority vote; or 2) the subsidiary body, by an affirmative vote of three-
fourths (3/4) of the members of the subsidiary body then holding office,
authorizes delay of that destruction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Procedure When Destruction Delayed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â If the destruction of a verbatim record has been delayed pursuant
to subsection C9 of this section, then the city council and/or the subsidiary
body, if any, that voted to delay destruction shall review the verbatim record
in closed session. After that review, the reviewing body shall determine
either: 1) that the verbatim record should be destroyed; or 2) that the
verbatim record may be released pursuant to subsection D of this section; or 3)
that the destruction of the verbatim record ought to be delayed to a date
certain.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No verbatim record shall be destroyed if the city council or the
subsidiary body, if any, determines that destruction should be delayed or
released pursuant to subsection D of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â If destruction of a verbatim record is delayed to a date certain,
then the clerk shall provide a new notice of destruction for that verbatim
record in accordance with subsection C6 of this section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Review And Release Of Closed Meeting Minutes And Verbatim Records:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Review Of Minutes: No less than twice each year, the city council
and each subsidiary body shall review its closed meeting minutes to determine
if they are eligible for release to the public. In its review, the city council
or subsidiary body shall determine if the minutes contain information that
continues to require confidential treatment. Only portions of written minutes
that no longer require confidential treatment shall be released. Written
minutes shall not be released unless approved by an affirmative majority vote
of the city council or subsidiary body taken in public session.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Review Of Verbatim Records: Pursuant to subsection C2 of this
section, verbatim records always are, per se, confidential. Not less than twice
each year, the clerk shall provide a list to the city council and to the
relevant subsidiary body of existing verbatim records, the review of which list
by the clerk, by the city council, and by the subsidiary body, if any, shall
constitute review of the verbatim records. The city council or the relevant
subsidiary body may undertake a further review of a verbatim record, but only
in accordance with subsection C4 of this section. After review of the verbatim
record, the city council or the subsidiary body shall require that the verbatim
record remain confidential unless, after reviewing the verbatim record in its
entirety, the verbatim record is approved for release by an affirmative
majority vote of the city council or, for a verbatim record of a subsidiary
body, by an affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the members of that
subsidiary body then holding office. All such votes shall be taken in open
session. (Ord. 2004-O-4, 1-6-2004; amd. Ord. 15-O-34, 6-2-2015)
CHAPTER 7
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Council Rules
1-7-2: Special Assistant To Mayor
1-7-3: Open Meetings Act Training
1-7-1: COUNCIL RULES 1 :
The following are hereby adopted as the rules of the Highwood city council.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall be defined as follows unless it is
apparent from the context that a different meaning is intended:
Â Â Â COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE MEETING OR COW MEETING: Any meeting of the corporate
authorities to permit informal discussion of the business and operations of the
city, without formal final action.
Â Â Â CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The mayor and city council of the city of Highwood.
Â Â Â REGULAR MEETINGS: The regular formal business meetings of the Highwood city
council. (Ord. 2009-O-32, 9-1-2009)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Meetings Schedule:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Committee Of The Whole: The corporate authorities shall meet as
committee of the whole on the first and third Tuesdays of each month at six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. in the city hall. The purpose of the COW meeting is to: a)
permit informal discussion of the business and operations of the city before
they are presented for final, formal action at a future regular meeting (as
herein defined); b) to determine the agenda for the upcoming regular meeting
(s); and c) to review the regular meeting agenda of that evening (if
applicable) to ensure that the items listed are ready for discussion and/or
action at the regular meeting. (Ord. 12-O-10, 3-6-2012)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the city council shall be
held on the first and third Tuesdays of each month at seven thirty o'clock (7:
30) P.M. in the city hall.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Special Meetings: Special meetings, including emergency meetings,
may be called from time to time by the mayor or by any two (2) members of the
city council. Notice shall be provided as required by the Illinois open
meetings act 2 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Actions: To the extent permitted by law, and in conformance with
applicable notice requirements, any council actions, including formal approval,
may be taken at any regular or special meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All items on the agenda (ordinances, resolutions, motions, etc.)
for city council action shall proceed as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The item shall be announced by the presiding officer as it
appears on the agenda;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Any ordinance or resolution shall be read, by reading of the
title of same. The ordinance or resolution shall be read in its entirety upon
motion of the city council;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The item shall be explained;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â A motion shall be made and seconded prior to debate on the
item;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â The item shall be discussed by the city council;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â The item shall be opened for public comment as set forth in
these rules;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â The city council may engage in additional discussion before
being called for a vote. (Ord. 2009-O-32, 9-1-2009)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No ordinance shall be passed until it has been introduced by
reading on two (2) separate days, unless the first reading is waived by a
majority of the corporate authorities then holding office. If first reading is
not waived, the second reading shall follow the first by no less than fourteen
(14) days. (Ord. 12-O-32, 7-10-2012)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Meetings Falling On Holidays: Any regular meeting or committee of
the whole meeting falling upon the following designated holidays shall occur on
the next business day immediately after said holiday:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â January 1 (New Year's Day).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â February 12 (Abraham Lincoln's birthday).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â July 4 (Independence Day).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â November 11 (Veterans Day).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â December 25 (Christmas Day).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Election days for municipal elections of city officials, or on
which referendums, public questions or issues of the city are on the ballot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Yom Kippur.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Passover (first and second days).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Rosh Hashanah.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Agenda:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Contents: The agenda for a meeting shall contain:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All of the items of business to be considered by the corporate
authorities at such meeting;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â All items of business under the proper order of business as set
forth herein; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Each agenda item shall contain details as to the agenda item
(i.e., a proposed appointment shall indicate the appointee, the board or
commission, and the term). (Ord. 2009-O-32, 9-1-2009)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Preparation: The agenda for any regular or committee of the whole
meeting shall be prepared under the direction of the city manager, and pursuant
to the following procedure(s):
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The city manager shall prepare a draft agenda (hereinafter "draft
agenda") no later than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the Thursday next preceding
any regular meeting or committee of the whole meeting. Such draft agenda shall
be available at city hall for the members of the corporate authorities.
Further, the city manager shall distribute such draft agenda to the members of
the corporate authorities via e-mail by such time and date. Such draft agenda
shall include: 1) such matters as the city manager recommends and receives
approval for inclusion by the mayor; 2) such matters as the mayor shall
determine; 3) such matters previously set by the corporate authorities for the
particular meeting, including matters postponed to such date, and 4) such
matters requested by any two (2) aldermen in writing, prior to the preparation
of the draft agenda.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Following the distribution of the draft agenda and upon the
direction of: 1) the mayor; 2) or any two (2) aldermen, and given to the city
manager's office in writing no later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
Friday next preceding the regular meeting or committee of the whole meeting,
additional agenda items shall be added to the draft agenda.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Based upon the above procedure, the city manager shall prepare a
final agenda (hereinafter "final agenda") for its regular meeting or committee
of the whole meeting no later than the close of business on the Friday next
preceding any regular meeting or committee of the whole meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The agenda for all other meetings (special, emergency or
reconvened meeting) shall be as set forth in the call and notice for such
meeting. (Ord. 2011-O-12, 6-7-2011)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Distribution Of Agendas: Not later than Friday preceding a regular
meeting or committee of the whole meeting, and as soon as practical for all
other meetings, once the final agenda for any meeting of the corporate
authorities is prepared the city manager shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Cause such final agenda to be available at city hall for
distribution to the members of the public and the corporate authorities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Distribute such final agenda to the members of the corporate
authorities and to all city departments via e-mail;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Post such final agenda at a public place at city hall and make
all notifications as required pursuant to the open meetings act;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Cause such final agenda to be posted upon the city's website;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Cause such final agenda to be transmitted via e-mail to members
of the public requesting same.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Order Of Proceeding Of Regular Meetings: The order of the agenda for
regular meetings shall be as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Call to order;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Roll call;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Pledge Of Allegiance;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Approval of minutes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Special business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Appointments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Public forum for items not on the agenda;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Public hearings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Reports:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Mayor's report;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Aldermen's reports;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â City manager's report;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Treasurer's report;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Clerk's report;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Action items;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Old business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â l.Â Â Â New business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â m.Â Â Â Executive session;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â n.Â Â Â Adjournment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Order Of Proceeding For Committee Of The Whole Meetings: The order
of the agenda for the committee of the whole meetings shall be as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Roll call;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Executive session;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â New business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Old business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Adjournment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Special Meetings: The order of the agenda for any special meeting
shall be as specified in the notice for such meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Agenda Changes: The presiding officer may change the order of an
item or items on the agenda, with the consent of the council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Items Not On Agenda: The failure to specifically list a matter on
the agenda shall not preclude discussion of any matter. Final action shall not
be taken on an item not on the agenda unless extraordinary circumstances
warrant such action, in which case, said item shall be placed on the agenda for
ratification at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Future Agenda Items: Any two (2) aldermen may direct the city
manager to place an item on the city council agenda if the request is timely
made.
At any meeting a member of the city council may move for the inclusion of an
agenda item for a future city council meeting. If the motion passes, the city
manager shall include such item on the agenda. Further, the city manager shall
prepare such reports, information, resolutions, or ordinances as may be
appropriate for such agenda item.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Rules Of Proceedings: The following rules shall govern the
deliberations and proceedings of all council meetings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Presiding Officers: The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
council. During the temporary absence or disability of the mayor, the council
shall elect one of its members as acting mayor, who shall act as presiding
officer of the council, however, the acting mayor shall not make or second
motions but shall vote on all questions and matters brought before the city
council. The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum, and may speak
to points of order in preference to other members, and shall decide all
questions of order subject to appeal. All questions relating to the priority of
business at any meeting shall be decided by the presiding officer without
debate, subject to appeal. In case of any disturbances or disorderly conduct,
the presiding officer shall have the power to require the chamber to be
cleared.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Meetings Via Electronic Means:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â If a quorum of the members of the city council is present at the
place designated in the notice of the meeting, the city council may allow any
member to attend the meeting via teleconference, video conference, or other
interactive electronic means (hereinafter collectively referred to as
"electronic means") in accordance with this section and state law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The member may be allowed to participate by electronic means if
the member is prevented from physically attending the meeting because of: 1)
personal illness or disability; 2) employment purposes or the business of the
city; 3) a family or other emergency; or 4) if vacationing outside the city
boundaries.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â If a member wishes to attend a meeting by electronic means, the
member shall notify the office of the city manager at least forty eight (48)
hours prior to the meeting, unless impractical. The council shall determine the
impracticability on a case by case basis.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A member participating by electronic means shall be allowed to
vote and participate in all aspects of the meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â If a member is present by electronic means, the member shall
identify himself/herself by name and be recognized by the presiding officer
prior to communicating. Any voice, electronic or other transmission by
electronic means made during the meeting by a member who is attending a public
meeting by electronic means shall be made available to the public concurrent
with the transmission, except for those meetings that are closed to the public
in accordance with section 2 of the open meetings act 3 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public Comment:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Members of the general public shall be permitted to address the
corporate authorities with concerns or comments regarding issues that are
relevant to the city. Issues that are not relevant to the city shall not be
permitted. No public comments shall be heard on behalf of or against any
candidate for public office. Public comments shall be permitted as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â During the public forum portion of the agenda but only for
matters not listed for consideration on that meeting's agenda;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â During the portion of any regular meeting regarding a
specific agenda item, as the agenda item is presented. (Ord. 2009-O-32, 9-1-
2009)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Those members of the public interested in speaking at the public
forum, as practicable, should register their name and address on a sign in
sheet to be prepared by the city manager. Providing an address is voluntary. It
shall not be a prerequisite to speaking at an open meeting. The presiding
officer shall invite the members of the public to make their comments at the
public forum in the order of the sign in sheet. At the conclusion of the
comments by the member of the public registered, the presiding officer shall
solicit comments from any other members of the public seeking to address the
corporate authorities and who failed to register. (Ord. 14-O-36, 11-3-2014)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Those members of the public interested in speaking to the
corporate authorities regarding a specific agenda item shall be permitted to do
so, following the introduction of the matter and initial discussion of the
matter by the corporate authorities. At the conclusion of such initial
discussion, the presiding officer shall solicit comments from members of the
public seeking to address the corporate authorities on such agenda item.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A person addressing the corporate authorities shall be allotted:
1) five (5) minutes for comments related to the public forum and 2) three (3)
minutes for comments related to specific agenda items for the regular meeting;
to present his/her comments unless a longer time is approved by the presiding
officer. No person shall be permitted to speak twice on the same subject at the
same meeting except by approval of the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The members of the corporate authorities may respond to the
public's comments in such manner deemed to be appropriate, including responding
to the comment or referral to the city staff, or an appropriate agency for
review, and/or may place the matter on a subsequent agenda for discussion.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The members of the public, staff and the corporate authorities
shall, at all times, maintain proper decorum.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Robert's Rules Of Order: Except as otherwise provided herein, the
rules of parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of
"Robert's Rules Of Order Revised" shall govern the council in all cases to
which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with these
rules of the council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Appeals: Any alderman may appeal a ruling of the presiding officer.
Such appeal shall require a second. If seconded, the member making the appeal
may briefly state the reason for the appeal, and the presiding officer may
briefly explain the reasons for the ruling. Provided, there shall be no further
debate on the appeal, and no other alderman shall participate in the
discussion. The presiding officer shall then put the question, "Shall the
decision of the presiding officer be sustained?" If a majority of the aldermen
present vote "no", the decision of the presiding officer shall be overruled;
otherwise, it shall be sustained.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Abstention: In the event any of the corporate authorities shall
abstain from casting a vote in favor of, or against any proposition, motion,
resolution, ordinance or other matter coming before the city council for
deliberation and vote, it is hereby determined that said abstention shall not
be counted with either the majority or minority, but rather shall have no
effect whatsoever in the determination of the vote cast. However, further
provided, that the abstention shall not be determined or implied to effect the
number of the corporate authorities present for determination of a quorum or
majority required for city business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Suspension Of Rules: These rules may be temporarily suspended by a
majority vote of the corporate authorities then holding office.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Interpretation And Validity Of Enactments: The interpretation and
application of these rules shall be within the sole discretion of the mayor and
city council, which decision shall be final. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this section, any ordinance, motion, resolution or other action
hereafter adopted or taken by the city council shall not be invalidated,
impaired or affected in any way by noncompliance or alleged noncompliance with
any one or more provisions of these rules.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Open Meetings: All meetings of the city council shall comply with
the requirements of the Illinois open meetings act and in conformance with
which, upon a majority vote of a quorum present at an open meeting, the city
council may hold a meeting closed to the public, or close the portion of any
open meeting for which proper notice has been given. Meetings or portions of
meetings closed to the public shall be referred to as executive sessions. (Ord.
2009-O-32, 9-1-2009)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-6-3 of this title.
2 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.
1-7-2: SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO MAYOR:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Title: This section may be called or referred to as the SPECIAL MAYORAL
ASSISTANT ORDINANCE OF 1994.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Creation Of Office; Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
the special assistant to the mayor of the city. The mayor may (but need not)
appoint such special assistant, with the advice and consent of the city
council. Such appointment shall be made in writing, and shall specify the term
of the appointment, which shall not extend beyond the term of other appointive
officers of the city at the end of each fiscal year. However, nothing in this
section shall prevent the mayor from reappointing the same person again as his
special assistant if he should so wish.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No Compensation: There shall be no remuneration for the office of the
special assistant to the mayor.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Bond; Insurance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Bond: The special assistant to the mayor shall not be required to
furnish any bond to the city, unless otherwise specified in the written
appointment of the mayor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Insurance: The special assistant to the mayor will be indemnified by
the city and its insurance carrier for any and all losses, expenses, costs
(including attorney fees) and the like as a result of or arising in any way due
to his office. However, such indemnification shall not extend to any wilful or
wanton act or failure to act, nor to any acts outside the scope of his office.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Duties; Restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The special assistant to the mayor shall assist the mayor in
carrying out his duties, as directed by the mayor from time to time. He may
exercise all the powers of the mayor; except, that he may not:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Appoint any new officers; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Remove any officer or terminate any city employee, however, in
urgent circumstances, and in the absence of the mayor, he may temporarily
suspend any city employee pending review by the mayor promptly upon his return;
or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Call out militia; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Issue any licenses, unless directed to do so by the mayor in
writing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The special assistant to the mayor may not sign instruments on
behalf of the mayor unless the mayor designates his authority to do so, in
writing, as required by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-30 or any
relevant successor state statute(s). (Ord. 94-O-60, 12-6-1994)
1-7-3: OPEN MEETINGS ACT TRAINING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Persons Designated To Receive Training: The mayor, all aldermen, city
clerk, city manager, assistant city manager, and community development director
are hereby designated to receive the training required under the open meetings
act. This designation shall apply to the city council as well as to all
standing and ad hoc committees, commissions or boards of the city ("subordinate
public bodies") which may be considered a "public body" under the open meetings
act. The police and fire pension boards and the board of fire and police
commissioners are not a committee or board of the city for purposes of this
section and, therefore, are not a subordinate public body for purposes of this
section. Subordinate public bodies need not make additional designations.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Electronic Training: On or before June 30, 2010, or as may be extended
by the Illinois public access counselor, the above designated persons must
successfully complete an electronic training curriculum, developed and
administered by the public access counselor, and thereafter must successfully
complete an annual training program.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Newly Elected/Appointed/Hired Persons: Whenever new individuals not
currently holding the above offices assume the above offices, those persons
must successfully complete the electronic training curriculum within thirty
(30) days after assuming office.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â List Of Designees To Public Access Counselor: On or before July 1,
2010, and, thereafter, within fifteen (15) days of an office holder being
designated to receive the training required under the open meetings act or
assuming such designated office, as the case may be, the assistant city manager
shall submit a list of names of such designated officers to the public access
counselor. (Ord. 10-O-01, 1-19-2010)
CHAPTER 8
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Deputy City Clerk
1-8-2: Commencement Of Terms Of Office
1-8-3: Salaries
1-8-4: Bond Requirements
1-8-1: DEPUTY CITY CLERK:
The duly elected city clerk may from time to time appoint one deputy clerk to
carry out the duties of municipal clerk as authorized by the Illinois statutes.
In the event the office of city clerk is vacant, and a deputy clerk has not
been appointed or is otherwise unable to fulfill his or her duties, the mayor
shall have the authority to appoint one deputy clerk, subject to the advice and
consent of the city council. The deputy clerk shall serve until discharged by
the city clerk or until a successor deputy clerk has been appointed. In the
event of the absence of the city clerk from the city, or the inability of the
city clerk to perform his duties, the deputy clerk shall have all the duties
and powers of the office of city clerk. (Ord. 13-O-5, 1-15-2013)
1-8-2: COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF OFFICE:
The terms of elected municipal officers of the city shall commence at the first
regular or special meeting of the city council during the month of May
following the proclamation of the results of the regular municipal election at
which the officers were elected. (Ord. 2007-O-17, 5-15-2007)
1-8-3: SALARIES:
The salaries of the elected officials of the city of Highwood have previously
been set as follows and shall remain at such levels until changed in accord
with applicable law. Unless otherwise indicated, the stated compensation is
annual (being an entire 12 month period) and payable in either twenty four (24)
or twenty six (26) equal installments over said period.
Â 
Position          Salary
Â Â Â Mayor       $600.00
Â Â Â Alderman    600.00
Â Â Â City clerk  600.00
Â Â Â City treasur600.00
Â 
(Ord. 13-O-48, 8-6-2013)
1-8-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Title: This section may be called or referred to as the HIGHWOOD CITY
BOND ORDINANCE OF 2003.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Bond Required: Pursuant to the requirements of law, currently 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-30, before entering upon the duties of
their respective offices, all officers of the city, except aldermen, shall
execute a bond with security, payable to the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Conditions Of Bond:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The bond shall include in it conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â That it is conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of the office and the payment of all monies received by the officer,
according to law and the ordinances of the city; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â That it is payable to the city in the penal sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), except as to the city treasurer, in which case, the bond
shall be payable to the city in the penal sum of at least twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The conditions of the bond may further provide that the obligation
of the sureties shall not extend to any loss sustained by the insolvency,
failure, or closing of any bank or savings and loan association organized and
operating either under the laws of the state of Illinois or the United States
in which the officer has placed funds in the officer's custody, if the bank or
savings and loan association has been approved by the corporate authorities as
a depository for those funds.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Approval Of Bond: The exact form of the bond shall be approved by the
mayor, or his designee, and the city attorney; provided, that it is in
compliance with law and this section. (Ord. 2003-O-28, 5-6-2003)
ARTICLE A. CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Office Created
1-8A-2: Appointment; Term
1-8A-3: Removal From Office
1-8A-4: Duties
1-8A-5: Compensation
1-8A-6: Bond
1-8A-7: Temporary Absence Or Disability
1-8A-8: Vacancy; Manager Pro Tem
1-8A-9: Successor Office To City Administrator
1-8A-10: Conflicts With Other Ordinances
1-8A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The office of city manager is created. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The city manager shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of
the city council for an indefinite term. The city manager shall be chosen on
the basis of executive and administrative qualifications with special reference
to actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the
duties of the office set forth in this article. The city council may in its
discretion choose to enter into an employment contract with the individual
chosen to be the city manager. The city manager shall be chosen without regard
to his or her political beliefs or affiliations and need not reside in the city
of Highwood. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-3: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The city manager may be removed at any time in accord with his or her
employment contract, if any, or in accord with section 3.1-35-10 of the
Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-35-10. (Ord. 2008-
O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-4: DUTIES:
The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city and
shall be responsible to the city council for the proper administration of the
affairs of the city. The individual serving as the city manager shall devote
all of his/her professional time to the discharge of official duties and shall
have no other trade or business. The power and duties of the city manager shall
be to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Enforce all laws and ordinances of the city;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Attend all meetings of the city council. The city manager shall have
the right to take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the city
council, but shall have no right to vote. The city manager shall be entitled to
notice of all special and regular meetings of the city council. However, the
failure to notify the city manager of any meeting shall not affect the validity
of any action taken at such meeting;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Recommend to the city council adoption of such measures as may be
necessary or expedient;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Appoint, suspend or remove all employees of the city, except those
employees under the authority of the fire and police commission. Such
appointments, suspensions or removals shall be based upon the merit and fitness
of such employee, without regard to political belief or affiliation. The city
manager may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint, suspend or
remove subordinates in such department or office;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Exercise control of all departments and divisions thereof now in
existence, or that may hereafter be;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Make recommendations to the city council concerning compensation for
each appointive office and position in the city service, including minimum,
intermediate and maximum rates;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Recommend to the city council the creating, consolidating, combining
and eliminating of offices, positions and departments of the city;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the city and services maintained by the
public utilities in the city and see that all franchises, permits and
privileges granted by the city are faithfully observed;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Purchase all materials, supplies, equipment, personal services and
contracts for which funds are provided in the budget, but no item or personal
service which exceeds any budget appropriation may be purchased. The city
manager may make all budgeted purchases where the total cost is ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) or less. Any purchase of more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) must receive city council approval. For all purchases requiring
competitive bids as provided by law or ordinance, the city manager shall seek
bids and shall make recommendations to the city council with respect to all
such bids. Bidding requirements may be waived in accord with applicable law.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Issue rules and regulations governing requisitions and the transaction
of the business of the purchasing agent and the heads of departments, officers
and employees of the city. In case of circumstances creating an emergency, the
city manager may, without prior consent of the city council, award contracts
and make purchases for the purpose of meeting the emergency; but shall promptly
file with the city council a report of such emergency and the necessity of such
action, together with an itemized account of all such expenditures;
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Prepare a budget report indicating the funds necessary to defray the
estimated expenses of the city for the fiscal year; prepare the annual
appropriation ordinance in time for consideration and enactment by the city
council as required by statute; and prepare the annual tax levy;
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Submit to the city council, in accordance with state statute, following
the end of the fiscal year, a complete report on the finances and
administrative activities of the city for the fiscal year;
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Present to the city council each month a joint statement with the city
treasurer showing the exact financial condition of the city as of the end of
the preceding month and showing amounts expended and unexpended balances for
each department in accordance with the annual budget;
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Keep a current inventory of all real and personal properties of the
city and the location of such property. The city manager shall be responsible
for the care and custody of all city properties which are not by statute or
ordinance assigned to some other officer or body for care and control;
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Appoint to all boards, commissions and committees a staff individual to
act as a liaison and resource person, if necessary;
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Authorize settlements and plea agreements, or the compromise and
satisfaction of judgments, in the prosecution of local ordinance violations; or
authorize another officer or attorney of the city to do so;
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â Execute permit applications on behalf of the mayor and city council for
city of Highwood construction projects within Lake County rights of way;
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â Perform such other lawful duties as may be directed by motion,
resolution or ordinance of the city council. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-5: COMPENSATION:
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the city council shall fix
from time to time. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-6: BOND:
The city manager shall furnish a bond in such amount and with such surety as
may be approved by the city council, such bond shall be conditioned on the
faithful performance of duties and shall be conditioned to indemnify the city
for any loss by reason of any neglect of duty or any act of the city manager.
The cost of the bond shall be paid by the city. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-7: TEMPORARY ABSENCE OR DISABILITY:
During the temporary absence or disability of the city manager, the city
manager shall appoint an acting city manager, with all the powers and duties of
the office. If the city manager is unable or fails to appoint an acting city
manager, the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council shall
appoint an acting city manager. The acting city manager may be removed from
office by a majority vote of the city council then holding office. If such an
appointment is of a person not already under bond to the city and such person
shall be acting city manager for more than thirty (30) consecutive days, such
appointee shall furnish a bond in accord with section
1-8A-6 of this article. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-8: VACANCY; MANAGER PRO TEM:
In case of a vacancy in the office of city manager, the mayor, with the advice
and consent of the city council, may appoint a manager pro tem who shall
possess the powers and duties of the city manager until such time as the office
is filled in accord with this article. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-9: SUCCESSOR OFFICE TO CITY ADMINISTRATOR:
With the repeal of ordinance 07-O-01, the office of city administrator is
eliminated. The individual holding the position of city administrator as of the
effective date hereof shall be the city manager subject to the terms of this
article and his or her employment agreement, if any, without further action of
the city council. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
1-8A-10: CONFLICTS WITH OTHER ORDINANCES:
Wherever the term city administrator or administrator appears in the ordinances
of the city, that term shall be deemed to mean the city manager upon the
effective date hereof. In the event of a conflict between this article and any
prior ordinance of the city, this article shall control to the extent allowed
at law. In the event any ordinance designates the mayor as the direct
supervisor of any employee, that ordinance is superseded by this article. The
mayor shall at all times retain his or her responsibilities as local liquor
commissioner. (Ord. 2008-O-24, 9-2-2008)
ARTICLE B. LEGAL SERVICES
SECTION:
1-8B-1: City Attorney
1-8B-2: City Prosecutor
1-8B-1: CITY ATTORNEY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Created; Appointment And Removal: There is hereby created the office of
city attorney, an executive office of the city. The city attorney shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, and
shall enjoy all of the emoluments of the office, whether appointed and holding
office as an independent contractor or as an employee. The city attorney shall
have direct communication with the mayor and city council and its members
individually as well as with other city officials. The city attorney may be
removed from office by the mayor in the manner provided by law.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Compensation: During his term, the city attorney shall receive such
compensation as may be fixed by contract from time to time.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Duties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The city attorney shall be responsible for all legal matters
pertaining to the city. Upon request by the mayor, he shall render any given
legal opinion in writing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â From time to time, the city attorney may appoint additional counsel
to represent or advise the city on legal matters as special counsel. In the
event such special counsel is so appointed, compensation shall be recommended
by the city attorney.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The city attorney shall be the legal advisor to the boards and
commissions of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The city attorney shall prepare all ordinances and resolutions and
shall render opinions on city bond issues.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The city attorney shall perform such other duties as from time to
time directed by the mayor. (2009 Code)
1-8B-2: CITY PROSECUTOR:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Intent: No office is being created by this section nor shall any be
construed or implied by this section. It is the intent of this section to set
forth the scope of duties of any Illinois licensed attorney who will be acting
in his or her capacity as prosecuting attorney as an independent contractor,
"retained attorney", on behalf of the city. The mayor and city council
recognize that such "retained counsel", as has been deemed necessary by the
mayor acting in his capacity as the chief executive officer, has historically
been appointed by the mayor and hired as an independent contractor, "retained
counsel", who is terminable at will. Nothing contained in this section shall be
deemed to eliminate or restrict any powers of the mayor as may exist under the
law. (Ord. 2005-O-50, 9-20-2005)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Retained Attorney: The attorney or firm hired to act as city prosecutor
shall be governed in accordance with this section and specifically this
subsection. The retention of such attorney or firm and the regular duties of
any such attorney or firm shall be governed as follows: (Ord. 2005-O-50, 9-20-
2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Retention: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city
council, may from time to time retain a city prosecutor to act as further set
forth herein and subject to the following conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The retained counsel hired to act as city prosecutor shall have
the status of an independent contractor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The city prosecutor shall be appointed by the mayor, with the
advice and consent of the city council, as provided by statute. The
qualifications and choice of attorney or law firm shall be the mayor's decision
to make in his executive capacity as set forth by statute.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The city prosecutor shall be retained until terminated by the
mayor, retained counsel resigns, and/or as otherwise provided by law, in which
event, a successor shall be appointed by the mayor to assume the duties called
for herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The city prosecutor shall be a licensed and practicing member of
the Illinois bar.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A retainer agreement, spelling out the terms of hire as then
applicable, shall be executed by the city with the attorney or law firm
selected as city prosecutor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Duties: The duties of the city prosecutor shall include, without
limitation, the following: (Ord. 2005-O-50, 9-20-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Prosecuting suits or actions involving violations of ordinances,
traffic ordinances, including, but not limited to, driving under the influence,
and parking ordinances that arise in branch court, as well as citations
concerning driving under the influence. (Ord. 2005-O-50, 9-20-2005; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Providing advice to police officers and/or other officials
authorized by the city to issue citations, and on legal questions of criminal
traffic law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Filing with the mayor and city administrator a written monthly
report showing dates of court appearances, pending matters and final
dispositions for DUIs for the month in question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Compensation: The city prosecutor shall be compensated in the manner
specified by the city salary ordinance and as set out in the retainer agreement
applicable to the city prosecutor's services, with the advice and consent of
the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Removal: The mayor alone may remove the city prosecutor on any
written charge whenever the mayor is of the opinion that the interests of the
city demand removal. (Ord. 2005-O-50, 9-20-2005)
ARTICLE C. COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Position Established
1-8C-2: Part Time Employees; Compensation
1-8C-3: Number Of Officers
1-8C-4: Supervision; Responsibilities
1-8C-1: POSITION ESTABLISHED:
In preparation of the annual budget for the upcoming fiscal year and following
years, the finance committee of the city council shall make provision for the
hiring of community service officers as specified in this article. (Ord. 92-O-
17, 4-21-1992)
1-8C-2: PART TIME EMPLOYEES; COMPENSATION:
Each community service officer shall be a part time employee of the city and
shall be compensated at the rate established by the city council. (Ord. 92-O-
17, 4-21-1992; amd. 2009 Code)
1-8C-3: NUMBER OF OFFICERS:
The chief of police shall hire such number of community service officers as are
necessary to ensure that a community service officer will be scheduled for duty
Monday through Friday of each week (exclusive of parking holidays) for
approximately six (6) hours per day. (Ord. 92-O-17, 4-21-1992; amd. 2009 Code)
1-8C-4: SUPERVISION; RESPONSIBILITIES:
The community service officers' day to day activities shall be supervised by
the chief of police and/or his designee. The community service officers'
primary responsibility shall be for enforcement of parking regulations in the
business and residential districts by the issuance of citations. Further, such
community service officers shall be responsible for enforcement of the city's
vehicle sticker ordinance and other related duties, as determined by the chief
of police. Enforcement of the parking and city sticker regulations shall be by
way of issuance of citation and/or public relations by the issuance of
information and other public relations measures to ensure maximum compliance
with the aforesaid city ordinances. (Ord. 92-O-17, 4-21-1992)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-9-2: Definitions
1-9-3: Interpretation
1-9-4: Prohibited Acts
1-9-5: Penalties
1-9-6: Ethics Advisor
1-9-7: Amendments
1-9-8: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-9-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/10-10 through 430/10-40 of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the "act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to the extent
required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 2004-O-40, 5-18-2004)
1-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, all the terms including, but not limited to,
"gift", "officer" and "employee" shall be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 2004-O-40, 5-18-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
1-9-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of officers and employees
(other than city ordinance 1999-O-40, "an ordinance prohibiting the
solicitation and acceptance of gifts and adopting the state gift ban act", (5
ILCS 425/1 et seq.; P.A. 90-737)). To the extent that any such existing
ordinances or policies are less restrictive than this chapter, however, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(a). (Ord. 2004-O-40, 5-18-2004)
1-9-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Gifts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Except as permitted under the act, the solicitation or acceptance of
gifts prohibited to be solicited or accepted under the act by any officer or
any employee of the city is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 2004-O-40, 5-18-2004; amd.
2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the city under the act is hereby prohibited.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the city is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 2004-O-40, 5-18-2004)
1-9-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 2004-O-40, 5-18-2004)
1-9-6: ETHICS ADVISOR:
To the extent authorized by law, the city attorney is appointed to serve as the
ethics advisor of the city. The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the
officers and employees of the city concerning the interpretation of and
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The
ethics advisor shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the
corporate authorities. (Ord. 2004-O-40, 5-18-2004)
1-9-7: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by the city shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city. (Ord.
2004-O-40, 5-18-2004)
1-9-8: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In the event that the Illinois supreme court declares the act
unconstitutional in its entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the
date that the Illinois supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject
to any further appeals or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed
without further action by the corporate authorities of the city if the act is
found unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme court.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In the event that the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act,
or does not address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as
adopted by this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the city. (Ord. 2004-O-40, 5-18-2004)
CHAPTER 10
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-10-1: Adoption Of Plan
1-10-1: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
The exhibit attached to ordinance 13-O-6 is hereby adopted as the official
comprehensive plan of the city. (Ord. 13-O-6, 1-18-2013)
CHAPTER 11
EMERGENCY POWERS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Mayor's Authority To Declare A State Of Emergency
1-11-1: MAYOR'S AUTHORITY TO DECLARE A STATE OF EMERGENCY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Mayor is hereby authorized to render a declaration of a state of
emergency within the City based on the following findings and supporting facts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â There has occurred, or there is an actual imminent danger of the
occurrence of, a natural disaster, catastrophe, pestilence, contagious disease
or other public health emergency, which is likely to cause loss of life, loss
of productivity, hardship or suffering to the persons residing in or doing
business in the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The declaration of a state of emergency and the actions to be taken
pursuant to that declaration are specifically designed to, and likely to,
address and alleviate the potential loss of life, loss of productivity,
hardship and suffering.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The declaration of a state of emergency shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Be in writing and executed under oath;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Set forth the basis and underlying facts supporting the declaration
of a state of emergency;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Make reference to published statements of federal, state or county
agencies whose duty it is to address emergency matters;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â To the extent possible, specify the procedures and protocols to be
followed during the state of emergency;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â To the extent possible, make specific reference to any regulations
which may be subject to suspension during the state of emergency; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Consistent with subsection E. below, set forth the duration of the
state of emergency.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The declaration of a state of emergency shall be filed with the City
Clerk as soon as practicable after being issued.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â During said state of emergency, the Mayor shall be authorized to
exercise, by executive order, such powers of the Corporate Authorities as may
be reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any state of emergency declared pursuant to this section shall expire
no later than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the Corporate
Authorities after the state of emergency has been declared.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â A declaration of a state of emergency, pursuant to this section, may
not suspend in any way the rights of residents of the City under the Illinois
Constitution or the United States Constitution. (Ord. 20-O-16, 8-4-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Appointment And Terms
2-1-2: Residency Requirement
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Meetings And Records
2-1-5: Removals
2-1-6: Powers And Duties
2-1-7: References In Zoning Ordinance
2-1-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
The planning and zoning commission shall consist of nine (9) members. The
members of the planning and zoning commission shall be appointed by the mayor,
subject to the confirmation of the city council. The members of the planning
and zoning commission shall serve respectively for the following terms: three
(3) for one year, three (3) for two (2) years, and three (3) for three (3)
years. The successor of each member so appointed shall serve for a term of
three (3) years. (Ord. 15-O-11, 3-17-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
2-1-2: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT:
Members of the planning and zoning commission shall reside within the city or
within territory contiguous to the city and not more than one and one-half (11/
2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included within any other
municipality. (Ord. 15-O-11, 3-17-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Officers: On an annual basis, no later than the first meeting of the
planning and zoning commission after May 1 of each year, the members of the
planning and zoning commission shall organize by the election of a chair, vice
chair, secretary, and any such other officers as may, in their judgment, be
necessary or convenient. Such officers shall hold office until the first
meeting after May 1 of the following year.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Bylaws: The planning and zoning commission shall adopt such bylaws
governing their procedures and regulating their business, from time to time, as
they deem proper and necessary. The adoption, amendment or revision of bylaws
shall be by majority vote of the commission; provided, however, that every
member of the commission shall be furnished a copy of such bylaws, amendments
or revisions within ten (10) days after the day of adoption. (Ord. 15-O-11, 3-
17-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
2-1-4: MEETINGS AND RECORDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Meetings: All meetings of the commission shall be held at the call of
the chair and at such other times as the commission may determine. All meetings
and public hearings shall be noticed in accordance with applicable law. All
meetings and public hearings of the commission shall be open to the public.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Minutes And Records: The commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question or, if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. Findings of fact shall be included in
the minutes of each case, as required, and the reasons for the recommendations
concerning each application shall be specified. (Ord. 15-O-11, 3-17-2015, eff.
5-1-2015)
2-1-5: REMOVALS:
If any member of the planning and zoning commission fails to attend three (3)
consecutive meetings, or fails to attend one- half (1/2) of all commission
meetings scheduled or called during any twelve (12) month period, such failure
to attend shall constitute cause for the removal of such member of the
commission. Such member of the commission may be removed either by a
recommendation by a majority vote of the remaining members of the planning and
zoning commission, which recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council
for action; or by action of the city council without the recommendation or
action by the remaining members of the planning and zoning commission. Any
vacancy created shall be filled by the mayor for the duration of the term of
said member of the planning and zoning commission, with the advice and consent
of the city council. (Ord. 15-O-11, 3-17-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
2-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning and zoning commission shall have the following powers and
responsibilities:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To prepare and recommend to the city council an official comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the city, which
plan shall be known as "The City Of Highwood Official Comprehensive Plan". Such
plan may be adopted in separate geographical or functional parts, each of
which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part thereof,
of the city. The official plan may include reasonable requirements with
reference to streets, alleys, public grounds and other improvements hereinafter
specified. The plan, as recommended by the plan commission and thereafter
adopted by the city council, shall be applicable, by the terms thereof, to
lands situated within the corporate limits and contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the city, and
not included within the limits of any other city, village or incorporated town,
which shall be designated on the official map of the city. Any ordinances of
the city: 1) establishing reasonable standards of design for subdivisions or
resubdivisions of unimproved land and areas subject to redevelopment in respect
to public improvements as herein defined; or 2) establishing reasonable
requirements governing the location, width, course and surfacing of public
streets and highways, alleys, ways for public service facilities, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds, size of
lots to be used for residential purposes, stormwater drainage, water supply and
distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment shall
constitute part of the official plan of the city. The official plan may also
include a plan designating land suitable for annexation to the city and
recommending the zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To prepare and recommend to the city council, from time to time, such
changes in the plan as may be deemed necessary by the council or by the
planning and zoning commission.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To prepare and recommend to the council, from time to time, plans for
specific improvements pursuant to the provisions of such official plan.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To prepare and recommend to the council an official map of the city and
to prepare and recommend to the council from time to time revisions in said
map.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To call upon any officials of the city for aid and advice upon any
matter properly within the scope of interest of the plan commission and to give
aid to the officials of the city charged with direction of projects for
improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the making of such
improvements and, generally, to promote the realization of the official plan.
If the planning and zoning commission shall deem it advisable to secure
technical advice or service, it may do so upon authority from and by the
council and appropriation by the council therefor.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities schemes
regulating or forbidding structures or activities which may hinder access to
solar energy necessary for the proper functioning of "solar energy systems", as
defined in section 1.2 of the comprehensive solar energy act of 1977, or to
recommend changes in such schemes.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â To conduct all hearings as required pursuant to the city zoning
ordinance.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â To hear applications for variations and special use permits, as
required by the city zoning ordinance, and appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning administrator charged
with enforcement of title 11 of this code.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
chapter as may, from time to time, be conferred by the city council.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Notwithstanding the above, the planning and zoning commission shall
have no powers or responsibilities which have been otherwise delegated to the
Fort Sheridan joint plan commission, pursuant to title 11, chapter 3, article A
of this code. (Ord. 15-O-11, 3-17-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
2-1-7: REFERENCES IN ZONING ORDINANCE:
Any reference to the plan commission or zoning board of appeals contained in
title 11 of this code shall hereby be deemed a reference to the city of
Highwood planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 15-O-11, 3-17-2015, eff. 5-1-
2015)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 15-O-11, 3-17-2015, eff. 5-1-2015)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
FORT SHERIDAN JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Membership; Appointment; Organization
2-3-2: Jurisdiction, Powers And Duties
2-3-3: Fees
2-3-1: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; ORGANIZATION:
The JPC shall consist of seven (7) voting members appointed and organized
pursuant to the terms of the 2H agreement, as same may be amended from time.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
2-3-2: JURISDICTION, POWERS AND DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of title 11 of this code, the JPC
shall have the exclusive jurisdiction and exercise its powers on matters
related to Fort Sheridan and referred to it by the Highwood city council, and/
or as conferred pursuant to the terms of the 2H agreement, as same may be
amended from time, and shall conduct hearings and make recommendations as set
forth in said 2H agreement, as same may be amended from time to time. Where no
procedure has been specifically provided or adopted, the provisions of title 11
of this code shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Upon the appointment and confirmation of the members to the Fort
Sheridan joint planning commission or JPC by the cities of Highwood and
Highland Park, they shall have the powers set forth in the Highwood/Highland
Park intergovernmental planning agreement of 1996, as same may be amended from
time to time. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
2-3-3: FEES:
Fees for all proceedings under this chapter shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code, unless, upon motion of the city council, any assessment,
fee or cost imposed or required to be paid under title 11 of this code is
varied or waived. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Effect Of State Law; Conflicts
2-4-2: Composition; Appointment; Terms
2-4-3: Officers
2-4-4: Powers And Duties
2-4-5: Limitations
2-4-6: Continuance And Ratification Of Prior Actions
2-4-1: EFFECT OF STATE LAW; CONFLICTS:
Pursuant to the home rule authority of the city, the Highwood board of fire and
police commissioners shall have such powers and perform such duties as are
provided in this chapter and the Illinois board of fire and police
commissioners act, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/10-2.1-1 et seq. In the
event of a conflict between any provision of this chapter and any statutory
provision, this chapter shall control over such statutory provision to the
fullest extent of the city's home rule powers. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 5-15-2007)
2-4-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; TERMS:
The board shall consist of three (3) members who shall be appointed by the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council. Each member shall serve
for a term of three (3) years and until a successor is appointed and qualified.
The terms of the members shall be staggered so that one term expires each year.
(Ord. 2007-O-16, 5-15-2007)
2-4-3: OFFICERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Chairperson: The members of the board shall elect one of their number
as chairperson to serve during each fiscal year.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Secretary: The board may appoint a secretary or designate one of its
own members to act as secretary. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 5-15-2007)
2-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Subject to the limitations set forth herein, the board of fire and
police commissioners shall exercise the powers conferred by statute, as
supplemented by the ordinances of the city pursuant to its home rule authority,
for the appointment, promotion and removal of officers and sworn members of the
fire and police departments.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The board shall conduct and hold all entrance and promotional
examinations in the manner determined by the board. This may include the
appointment of persons through a hiring system (sometimes referred to as a
"lateral hiring system") which reduces or eliminates elements of the
examination process and eligibility list to permit the hiring of persons
currently employed in a police or fire department on a full or part time basis,
or whose education or military experience provides sufficient evidence of
qualification as determined by the board.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The board shall provide that, as a condition of appointment, an
appointee shall be required to enter into a reimbursement agreement with the
city providing for reimbursement of costs incurred by the city for training and
attendance at the police academy in the event the employee voluntarily
terminates employment with the city within Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  years of appointment.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Subject to the limitations set forth herein, the board shall exercise
the powers conferred by statute, as supplemented or modified by the ordinances
of the city pursuant to its home rule authority, to promulgate such rules as it
may deem necessary and appropriate to carrying out the board's duties and
powers. The rulemaking authority of the board shall include, without
limitation, the authority to establish procedures and standards for determining
the qualifications of applicants for initial or promotional appointment,
including a lateral hiring system.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The board shall have the power to conduct hearings and impose
discipline for cause, including demotion, suspension or discharge, as provided
by state law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Suspension: Following written charges and a hearing as provided by
law, the board may suspend an officer for cause. The chief of the fire
department or the chief of the police department may suspend an officer as
provided by law. Provided, the chief shall notify the board in writing of any
suspension, and the officer so suspended may appeal to the board for a review
of the suspension as provided by state law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Demotion: Following written charges and a hearing as provided by
law, the board may, for cause, but only at the request of the department chief,
demote to any lower grade or rank, officers of the police and fire departments.
Such disciplinary demotion may be in lieu of discharge and in addition to any
suspension that may be also be imposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Discharge: Following written charges and a hearing, as provided by
law, the board may order an officer discharged for cause.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The board shall have the power to perform such other duties as
specified or necessarily implied by law. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 2-19-2008)
2-4-5: LIMITATIONS:
The powers, authority and duties of the board shall not include any power,
authority or duty with respect to the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The appointment, discharge, terms of employment or performance of the
chief of police, the chief of the fire department, or any civilian employee.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The operations or staffing of the police and fire departments.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The power or authority to appoint, promote, remove, discharge, suspend,
demote, reprimand or otherwise rule in disciplinary matters, or to investigate
charges involving sworn personnel who are not subject to the jurisdiction of
the board by the terms of a collective bargaining agreement in either the
police or fire department. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 5-15-2007)
2-4-6: CONTINUANCE AND RATIFICATION OF PRIOR ACTIONS:
Except as modified herein, this chapter shall be a continuance of all existing
powers and duties of the board of fire and police commissioners and a
ratification of all prior actions of the board. (Ord. 2007-O-16, 5-15-2007)
CHAPTER 5
911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
(Rep. by Ord. 16-O-23, 5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 6
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD
(Rep. by Ord. 16-O-19, 4-19-2016)
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
(Ord. 13-O-13, 3-7-2013)
CHAPTER 8
APPEALS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-8-1: Zoning Board Of Appeals Serve As
2-8-2: Interpretation Throughout Code
2-8-3: Powers And Duties
2-8-4: Rules And Regulations
2-8-1: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS SERVE AS:
The zoning board of appeals is hereby designated as the Highwood appeals
commission 1 . (Ord. 2008-O-6, 2-19-2008)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title for planning and zoning commission.
2-8-2: INTERPRETATION THROUGHOUT CODE:
Whenever, throughout this code or any ordinance or resolution of the city,
including, but not limited to, the city building code, reference is made to the
"building code board of appeals", "appeals commission", "hearing officer", or
similar term, and such entity has not been independently established and
staffed in the manner provided by law, such term shall be construed to mean the
zoning board of appeals. This shall not apply to any appeal to a body that has
been independently established, including, but not limited to, the Highwood
liquor commission and the Highwood board of fire and police commissioners.
(Ord. 2008-O-6, 2-19-2008)
2-8-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The appeals commission shall have such powers and duties as designated in the
ordinance or law giving right to the appeal. This shall include the power and
duty to hear appeals from any order, requirement, decision or determination in
the administration or enforcement of the city building code as the building
code board of appeals. (Ord. 2008-O-6, 2-19-2008)
2-8-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The appeals commission may adopt rules and regulations consistent with the
provisions of this chapter and applicable law governing the processing of
commission business, including the conduct of commission meetings and hearings.
(Ord. 2008-O-6, 2-19-2008)
CHAPTER 9
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLANNING COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-9-1: Created; Membership
2-9-2: Responsibilities
2-9-3: Annual Report
2-9-4: Adoption Of Capital Improvement Program
2-9-5: Availability Of Report And Capital Budget
2-9-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
The capital improvement planning committee is created. The city council shall
establish and appoint a committee to be known as the "capital improvement
planning committee", composed of two (2) members of the city council and one
member of the finance committee. The city manager shall be an ex officio
committee staff member without the right to vote. The committee shall choose
its own chairperson. (Ord. 2008-O-28, 9-16-2008)
2-9-2: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The committee shall study proposed capital projects and improvements involving
major nonrecurring tangible assets and projects which: a) are purchased or
undertaken at intervals of not less than five (5) years; b) have a useful life
of at least five (5) years; and c) cost over ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
All department heads, boards and committees, including the city council, shall,
by October of each year, give to the committee, on forms prepared thereby,
information concerning all anticipated projects requiring city council action
during the ensuing five (5) years. The committee shall consider the relative
need, impact, timing and cost of these expenditures and the effect each will
have on the financial position of the city. No appropriation shall be voted for
a capital improvement requested by a department, board or commission unless the
proposed capital improvement is considered in the committee's report. (Ord.
2008-O-28, 9-16-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
2-9-3: ANNUAL REPORT:
The committee shall prepare an annual report recommending a capital improvement
budget for the next fiscal year and a capital improvement program, including
recommended capital improvements for the following five (5) fiscal years. The
report shall be submitted to the city council for its consideration and
approval. (Ord. 2008-O-28, 9-16-2008)
2-9-4: ADOPTION OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM:
The capital improvement program, after its adoption, shall permit the
expenditure on projects included therein of sums from departmental budgets for
surveys, architectural or engineering advice, options or appraisals; but no
such expenditure shall be incurred on projects which have not been so approved
by the city through the appropriation of sums in the current year or in prior
years, or for preliminary planning for projects to be undertaken more than five
(5) years in the future. (Ord. 2008-O-28, 9-16-2008)
2-9-5: AVAILABILITY OF REPORT AND CAPITAL BUDGET:
The committee's report and the city council's recommended capital budget shall
be published and made available in a manner consistent with the distribution of
the finance committee report. The committee shall deposit its original report
with the city clerk and provide a copy for review with the city public library.
(Ord. 2008-O-28, 9-16-2008)
CHAPTER 10
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-10-1: Established
2-10-2: Membership
2-10-3: Meeting Schedule
2-10-4: Responsibilities
2-10-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an ad hoc advisory committee which shall be known
as the comprehensive planning advisory committee (the "committee"). (Ord. 10-O-
06, 2-16-2010)
2-10-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The committee shall consist of eleven (11) members appointed by the mayor. One
member shall be designated the chairman and one member shall be designated the
secretary. The chairman may call special meetings by providing three (3) days'
written notice (including e-mail) to members. Members shall serve at the
pleasure of the mayor or until the purpose of the committee is completed and
the committee is disbanded by the city council. The committee shall comply at
all times with the open meetings act. The city manager shall designate a staff
liaison to the committee. The work of the committee shall be an administrative
priority of the city staff. (Ord. 10-O-06, 2-16-2010)
2-10-3: MEETING SCHEDULE:
The committee shall set its own meeting schedule which will allow it to
complete its directives under this chapter. (Ord. 10-O-06, 2-16-2010)
2-10-4: RESPONSIBILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The committee is initially directed to investigate and determine the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To work with the city's planning consultant, Houseal Lavigne &
Associates, toward the goal of providing an up to date comprehensive plan for
the city of Highwood.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To make recommendations to the mayor and city council as to planning
tasks or community outreach initiatives which need to be completed as part of
the comprehensive planning process.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To make recommendations to the mayor and city council for amendments
to the scope of services of Houseal Lavigne & Associates to accomplish the goal
of providing a comprehensive plan which targets specific areas of the city for
development and leads to needed updates and/or overhauls to the city's
development ordinances.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The committee shall report on its work to the city council at least
once per calendar month.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The city council may provide additional direction to the committee by
council resolution or ordinance. (Ord. 10-O-06, 2-16-2010)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Fiscal Year
3-1-2: City Depositories
3-1-3: Investment Policy
3-1-4: Fixed Asset Policy
3-1-5: Payment Of Bills To Avoid Late Charges
3-1-1: FISCAL YEAR:
As previously provided by the city, and as authorized and pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-2, the fiscal year for the city shall be from
May 1 of each year through April 30 of the following year. (Ord. 98-O-45, 5-19-
1998)
3-1-2: CITY DEPOSITORIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city council shall, from time to time, by resolution, designate
depositories in which funds or monies belonging to the city shall be kept.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Such designated depositories shall be financial institutions that are
members of the FDIC system with asset size of five hundred million dollars
($500,000,000.00) or greater and a capital ratio ten percent (10%) or greater.
In addition, city funds shall not be maintained in any financial institution
that is not willing or capable of posting required collateral, or purchasing
private insurance for funds in excess of FDIC insurable limits.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In order to qualify as a depository for city funds, the financial
institution must furnish copies of the latest two (2) statements of resources
and liabilities that it is required to furnish to the commissioner of banks and
real estate, or to the comptroller of currency. (Ord. 12-O-16, 4-3-2012)
3-1-3: INVESTMENT POLICY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Policy: It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a manner
which will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security
while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city and conforming to all
state and local statutes governing the investment of public funds.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Scope: This section shall apply to all funds governed by the city
council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Prudence:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the "prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Objective:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The primary objective, in order of priority, shall be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Legality: Conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Safety: Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Liquidity: Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Yield: Attainment of market rates of return.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The city's portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its
effectiveness in meeting the city's needs for safety, liquidity, rate of
return, diversification and its general performance.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Delegation Of Authority: Management and administrative responsibility
for the investment program is hereby delegated to the treasurer who, under such
delegation of the city council, shall establish procedures for the operation of
the investment program.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest: Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Authorized Financial Dealers And Institutions: The treasurer will
maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. Further, the treasurer will maintain a list of approved security
brokers/dealers which shall be selected by credit worthiness.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Authorized And Suitable Investments: Investments may be made in any
type of security allowed for in Illinois statutes regarding the investment of
public funds. Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the
fund type being invested.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Collateralization: Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of
deposit, etc.) in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of
collateral, witnessed by a written agreement and held at an independent third
party institution in the name of the city.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Safekeeping And Custody: All security transactions, including
collateral for repurchase agreements, entered into by the city shall be
conducted on a delivery versus payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent third party custodian designated by the treasurer and evidenced
by safekeeping receipts and a written custodial agreement.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Diversification: The city's policy is diversification of its investment
portfolio based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those
funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions
invested in, and length of maturity.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Maximum Maturities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To the extent possible, the treasurer shall attempt to match the
city's investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the treasurer will not directly invest in securities
maturing more than two (2) years from the date of purchase.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding two (2) years
if the maturity of such investments is made to coincide as nearly as
practicable with the expected use of the funds.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Internal Control: The treasurer is responsible for establishing and
maintaining an internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of
the city are protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control
structure shall be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these
objectives are met. The internal controls shall address the following points:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Control of collusion.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Separation of transaction authority from accounting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Custodial safekeeping.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Performance Standards: The investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this section. The portfolio
should obtain a comparable rate of return during a market/economic environment
of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance should be compared to
benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity and credit quality as the
portfolio, such as the IPTIP fund.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Reporting: The treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
quarterly. The report should be provided to the city council and shall be
available on request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by
the general public. An annual report should also be provided to the council.
Such report shall include a statement of the market value of the portfolio.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Adoption; Annual Review: This section is hereby adopted by the city
council. This section shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the treasurer,
and any proposed modifications shall be forwarded to the city council for
approval. (Ord. 99-O-77, 12-7-1999)
3-1-4: FIXED ASSET POLICY:
The fixed asset policy of the city contained in this section is hereby adopted.
The city shall implement such fixed asset policy and comply with its
requirements until such time as said policy is amended, rescinded, or updated.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide guidance for the
control and accountability of fixed assets, and the collection and maintenance
of the information needed in the preparation of financial statements. The city
fixed asset policy is herein established to safeguard city assets and to ensure
compliance with GASB34 for governmental financial reporting.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Overview:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â This section is established to safeguard and address the city's
investment in property, which represents a significant resource. This section
is meant to ensure compliance with various accounting and financial reporting
standards including generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and
governmental accounting, auditing, and financial reporting (GAAFR).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Further, this section is meant to reflect the city's desire to meet
the reporting requirements set forth in the governmental accounting standards
board (GASB) statement no. 34 (which is effective for fiscal year ending April
30, 2005). Specifically, the GASB statement no. 34 states that governments
should provide additional disclosures in their summary of significant
accounting policies including the policy for capitalizing assets and for
estimating the useful lives of those assets, which is used to calculate the
depreciation expense. The statement also requires disclosure of major classes
of assets, beginning and end of year balances, capital acquisition, sales/
dispositions, and current period depreciation expense.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Inventory, Valuation, Capitalization And Depreciation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Inventory:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Responsibility for control of fixed assets rests with the
operating department wherein the asset is located. The city administrator shall
ensure that such control is maintained by establishing an inclusive fixed asset
inventory schedule. Asset acquisitions that fall below the capitalization
threshold will not be included in the fixed asset inventory.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Each department will be responsible for control of fixed assets
for its department. The department head shall ensure that such control is
maintained by establishing a fixed asset inventory schedule. The inventory
schedule will include the following for each asset:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â A description of the asset including the serial number and
model number.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Asset classification (land and land improvements, building
and building improvements, vehicles, machinery and equipment, or infrastructure
assets).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Department name and physical location of asset.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Date asset was purchased/acquired and/or disposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Method of acquisition (purchased or donated).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Cost of asset.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Estimated useful life.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The inventory schedule will be maintained, updated, and reviewed
by the department head and provided to the city administrator on an ongoing
basis. (Ord. 2005-O-19, 4-6-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Capitalizing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â When To Capitalize Assets: Assets are capitalized at the time of
acquisition. To be considered a capital asset for financial reporting purposes,
an item must be at or above the capitalization threshold (see the fixed asset
schedule, subsection D of this section) and have a useful life of at least one
year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â When Not To Capitalize Assets: Capital assets that are below the
capitalization threshold on a unit basis but have value and warrant "control"
are not capitalized. These assets shall be inventoried at the department level
and an appropriate list maintained by the owning department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Criteria: Capital assets should be capitalized if they meet the
following criteria:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The asset is tangible.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The asset has a useful life of more than one year (the
benefit exists for more than a single fiscal period).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Cost exceeds the designated threshold.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Classes Of Assets: Capital assets include the following major
classes of assets:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Land And Land Improvements: Capitalized value is to include
the purchase price, plus costs such as legal fees and filing fees. Improvements
are classified as items such as parking lots, fences, pedestrian bridges, and
landscaping.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Building And Building Improvements: Costs include purchase
price, plus costs such as legal fees and filing fees. Improvements include
structures and all other property permanently attached to or are an integral
part of the structure. These costs include building systems such as roofing,
electrical/plumbing, carpeting, and HVAC.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Vehicles: Costs include purchase price, plus costs such as
title and registration or other necessary equipment installed on the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Machinery And Equipment: Assets included in this category are
heavy equipment, operating or control systems, pumps, valves, and generators.
Office equipment is classified as nonexpendable items such as a phone system or
kitchen equipment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Infrastructure Assets: Infrastructure assets are long lived
capital assets that are stationary in nature and normally can be preserved for
a significantly greater number of years than most capital assets. Included in
this category are roads/streets, curbs, sidewalks, water systems, water tanks,
water towers, and sewer and drainage systems.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Depreciation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Depreciation will be computed using a straight line method with
depreciation computed on a monthly basis from the month of acquisition.
Additions and improvements will only be capitalized if the cost either enhances
the asset's functionality or extends the asset's useful life. As such, the
following costs for improvements are expensed as opposed to being capitalized:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Road resurfacing or sealing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Sidewalk or curb patching.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Realignment of sewer lines.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Manhole restorations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Water main repairs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Projects in process will be added to the asset base as the
projected expenses are incurred. However, the project first needs to meet its
individual threshold ($50,000.00 for building projects, $150,000.00 for
infrastructure projects).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Annexations (related land, rights of way, and infrastructure
including roads, water system, and sanitary and storm sewers) will be added to
the asset base in total on the date the annexation is accepted by the city (via
council action). Upon completion, the appropriate documentation will be
prepared and the component value of the annexation added to the books. In some
cases, parks may be added to the asset base before the rest of the annexation.
(Ord. 2005-O-19, 4-6-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Schedule Of Fixed Assets:
 Useful Life (Years) Capitalization Threshold  Inventory Threshold (Dollars)
                     (Dollars)
                        Useful Life  Capitalization      Inventory Threshold
                        (Years)      Threshold (Dollars) (Dollars)
Land (and inexhaustible n/a          1                   1
land improvements)
Land improvements                    10,000              1
(exhaustible)
Â Â Â Structures
Â Â Â Â Â Â Parking lots20
Â Â Â Â Â Â Fences      15
Â Â Â Groundwork        20
(landscaping)
Buildings                            50,000              1
Â Â Â Buildings         50
Building systems                     50,000              1
Â Â Â Roofing           25
Â Â Â Electrical/plumbin50
Â Â Â Carpet            10
Â Â Â HVAC              20
Vehicles                             10,000              1
Â Â Â Police            5
Â Â Â Fire              8
Â Â Â Public works
Â Â Â Â Â Â Small trucks8
Â Â Â Â Â Â Large trucks10
Machinery and equipment              10,000              1,000
Â Â Â Police
Â Â Â Â Â Â Communicatio5s
Â Â Â Fire
Â Â Â Â Â Â Communications
Â Â Â Public works
Â Â Â Â Â Â Heavy equipment
Â Â Â Â Â Â Maintenance
equipment
Computers               4            10,000              1
Furniture and fixtures               10,000              5,000
Â Â Â Office furniture  20
Â Â Â Office equipment  5
Â Â Â Phone system      10
Â Â Â Kitchen equipment 10
Infrastructure                       150,000             50,000
Â Â Â Roads/streets     20
Â Â Â Sidewalks
Â Â Â Streetlights
Â Â Â Water and sewer
systems
Â Â Â Â Â Â Lift station40
Â Â Â Â Â Â Water tower 50
Â Â Â Â Â Â Water/sewer 50ins
Â 
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Removing Fixed Assets From Inventory: Fixed assets are to be removed
from inventory once they are obsolete or claimed to be surplus property. The
item must be removed from the department inventory listing and reported by the
department head to the city administrator in order to update the inventory
listing.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Donations Or Transfer: Each department head will add additions and
deletions from donated or transferred assets to the inventory listing.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Surplus Property: Each department head will report all fixed assets
classified as surplus to the city administrator. The city will have a
negotiated sale, auction, or sealed bid as needed to sell the surplus property.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Lost Or Stolen Property: When suspected or known losses of inventoried
assets occur, the department owning the lost asset should conduct a search for
the missing property. The search should include the possibility that the
property was transferred to another department, placed in storage, scrapped,
and/or removed as surplus property. If the missing property is not found, the
department head must notify the city administrator of the lost property. (Ord.
2005-O-19, 4-6-2005)
3-1-5: PAYMENT OF BILLS TO AVOID LATE CHARGES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In the event a situation occurs, including, but not limited to,
cancellation of a city council meeting, when certain bills, as outlined below,
must be paid prior to formal city council approval in order to avoid incurring
additional late charges, the city manager, or his designee, is hereby
authorized to pay such bills in order to avoid any additional charges.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â This section shall apply to the following bills:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Utilities (telephone, natural gas, electric, sanitary sewer);
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Employee benefit payments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Amounts related to contracts for professional services previously
approved by city council;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Debt service payments for all approved debt; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â All lease payments for leases previously approved by city council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In the event any bill is paid prior to formal city council approval in
accordance with this section, the bill shall be included on the list of bills
at the next regular city council meeting for ratification. (Ord. 13-O-32, 5-21-
2013)
CHAPTER 2
FEES
ARTICLE A. LICENSE, PERMIT AND MISCELLANEOUS FEES
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Fees Established
3-2A-2: Time Of Payment; Delinquencies
3-2A-3: Rules And Regulations
3-2A-4: Conflicting Provisions
3-2A-5: Penalties
3-2A-1: FEES ESTABLISHED:
FEE SCHEDULE
Â 
n/a = Not applicable p/e = Per event
Â 
 Fee Term
                             Fee                   Term
General penalties:           Â                     Â 
General penalty minimum      $ 100.00              Per day
General penalty maximum      1,500.00              Per day
Application of lien -        50.00                 Â 
nuisance, water, other
Release of lien - nuisance,  50.00                 Â 
water, other
Building permit fees and     Â                     Â 
charges:
The minimum permit fee shall
apply to all permits not
expressly noted and
additional fees may apply.
The total fee shall be the
greater of the permit
minimum, or, the fees as
specified below. The         Â                     Â 
applicant shall also pay any
out-of-pocket expenses the
City incurred relative to
the review, approval, and/or
inspection of the permit
applicant and/or relative to
inspection of the work
authorized by the permit.
Residential plan review:     Â                     Â 
Preliminary plan review/     Free                  Â 
consultation
New single family residence  $495.00               Â 
Additions                    275.00                Â 
Interior remodel             110.00                Â 
Detached garage              82.50                 Â 
Roof permit                  75.00                 Â 
Other reviews (decks, water
heaters, fences, generators, 55.00                 Â 
all others)
Zoning review and report     165.00                Â 
All resubmittals             55.00                 Â 
Residential inspections:     Â                     Â 
Framing, fencing,
electrical, all roughs,
foundation, footing,
roofing, masonry, driveway,  55.00                 Â 
insulation, HVAC, windows,
dishwasher, hot water
heaters, generators, decks,
sheds, all others
Plumbing (rough plumbing,
final plumbing, all other    75.00                 Â 
plumbing)
All finals (in addition to
any of the above             55.00                 Â 
inspections)
Re-inspections               55.00                 Â 
Other inspections (decks,
fences, generators, all      55.00                 Â 
others)
Property transfer            110.00                Â 
inspections
Commercial plan review:      Â                     Â 
Preliminary plan review/     Free                  Â 
consultation
New building, build-out,
fencing, electrical,
elevator, masonry, driveway, 0.002 of value of     Means cost building data or
insulation, HVAC, windows,   construction plus 20% cost of construction
dishwasher, hot water
heaters, generators, decks,
sheds, all others
Roof permit                  $ 240.00              Â 
Other reviews - minimum      120.00                Â 
charge
Zoning review and report     500.00                Â 
All resubmittals             60.00                 Â 
Commercial inspections:      Â                     Â 
Framing, fencing,
electrical, elevator, all
roughs, foundation, footing,
roofing, masonry, driveway,  120.00                Â 
insulation, HVAC, windows,
dishwasher, hot water
heaters, generators, decks,
sheds, all others
Plumbing (rough plumbing,
final plumbing, all other    150.00                Â 
plumbing)
All finals (in addition to
any of the above             120.00                Â 
inspections)
Re-inspections               120.00                Â 
Other inspections (decks,
fences, generators, all      120.00                Â 
others)
Grease trap yearly fee       70.00                 Annual
Certificate of Occupancy:    Â                     Â 
Partial occupancy            200.00                Â 
certificate
Full occupancy certificate   200.00                Â 
Stop work order:             Â                     Â 
Removal - work without       500.00                Â 
permit
Removal - work in violation  500.00                Double permit fee maximum
of a permit                                        $500.00
Re-inspection fee            55.00                 Â 
Utility install plan review  250.00                Â 
City water tank cell phone   2,000.00              Â 
equipment permit fee
Small cell wireless:         Â                     Â 
Single small cell wireless
facility that includes the   1,000.00              p/e
installation of a new
utility pole
Single small wireless
facility on an existing      650.00                p/e
utility pole or wireless
support structure
Collocation multiple small
wireless facilities on
existing utility poles or    350.00                Per facility
wireless support structures
addressed in a single
application
Small wireless facilities    200.00                Annual
annual fee
Telecommunications system    2,500.00              Â 
review
City water tank plan review  Cost                  Engineering consultant cost
Fire alarm:                  Â                     Â 
Fire alarm, detection,
suppression, and related     Â                     Â 
plan reviews and permits:
Residential                  Cost                  Plus 10%
Commercial                   Cost                  Plus 10%
Hydrant flow testing         100.00                p/e
Alarm systems:               Â                     Â 
Monthly maintenance/hook-up  40.00                 Monthly
False alarms:                Â                     Â 
1 to 3                       -                     n/a
4 and 5                      175.00                n/a
After 5                      250.00                n/a
Unpaid after 90 days         500.00                n/a
Schools:                     Â 
1 to 6                       -                     n/a
7 to 8                       175.00                n/a
After 8                      200.00                n/a
Unpaid after 90 days         500.00                n/a
Other permits:               Â                     Â 
Elevator:                    Â                     Â 
Annual inspection            55.00                 Â 
Mobile food dispensing       100.00                p/e
permit
Sign permit:                 Â                     Â 
Sandwich board sign - first  100.00                Â 
year
Sandwich board sign -        20.00                 Â 
following years
All other signs              75.00                 Plus $1.00 per square foot
Street obstruction           375.00                Plus $20.00 per parking
                                                   space per day
Demolition permits:          Â                     Â 
Accessory structure          250.00                Â 
Residential dwelling unit    1,000.00              50% of building over 3 years
Commercial multi-dwelling    5,000.00              50% of building over 3 years
unit
Commercial                   5,000.00              50% of building over 3 years
Residential dwelling unit,   200.00                Â 
per partial building
Commercial multi-dwelling    250.00                Â 
unit, per partial building
Commercial, per partial      500.00                Â 
building
Inspection of commercial     200.00                Â 
inspections
City licenses:               Â                     Â 
Business license             50.00                 Annual
Cannabis dispensary          6,000.00              Annual
Dry cleaner/laundromat       900.00                Annual
license
Filming license              150.00                p/e
Food service establishments: Â                     Â 
Restaurant license           600.00                Annual
Mobile food dispensing       300.00                Annual
license
Restaurant and mobile food   60.00                 Annual
dispensing renewal license
Sidewalk cafe license:       Â                     Â 
License                      150.00                Annual
Expansion area license       2.00                  Per square foot
Curbside cafe                500.00                Annual
Garage and rummage sale      25.00                 Â 
permit
Hotel license                3,000.00              Annual
Kennel license - commercial  450.00                Annual
Landscaper license           100.00                Annual
Â 
 Annual Initial
                                                           Annual    Initial
Liquor licenses:                                           Â         Â 
Class A: Restaurant or bar - full license                  $3,160.00 $10,000.00
Class B: Restaurant or bar - full license with retail wine 3,500.00  10,000.00
or beer
Class C: Restaurant or bar - beer and wine only            1,465.00  2,500.00
Class D: Restaurant or bar - beer and wine only with       1,875.00  3,000.00
retail wine or beer
Class E: Liquor store                                      3,160.00  10,000.00
Class F: Convenience store with liquor                     3,160.00  10,000.00
Class G: Convenience store with beer and wine only         740.00    5,000.00
Class H: Grocery or retail store with liquor               7,000.00  10,000.00
Class I: Nonprofit                                         100.00    100.00
Class J: Catering                                          1,000.00  1,000.00
Class K: Special event (per day)                           Â         50.00
Class L: Beer and wine production and sampling             1,875.00  3,000.00
Late filing fee                                            50.00     n/a
Â 
 Fee Term
                                 Fee                         Term
Rooming house license            $3,000.00                   Annual
Scavenger license                250.00                      Annual per vehicle
Secondhand dealer license        500.00                      Annual
Sales and delivery license       80.00                       Annual
Tobacco license                  750.00                      Annual
Towing Operator License          250.00                      Annual
Raffles license (may be waived)  25.00                       p/e
Vending and amusement devices:
Arcade license:                  1,000.00                    Annual
Late payment, each license       1,000.00                    Annual
Device license:                  135.00                      Per device annual
Late payment, each license       65.00                       Annual
Operator license:                300.00                      Annual
Late payment, each license       100.00                      Annual
Pool and billiard table license  150.00                      Annual
Vendor/sale/solicitor licenses:
Peddlers and solicitors:
License, per day                 100.00                      p/e
Investigation                    5.00                        p/e
Transient merchants and
itinerant vendors:
License                          100.00                      p/e
Temporary designated sales area  1,000.00                    p/e
Used car lot license             2,500.00
Valet license                    500.00                      Per location
Freedom of Information - FOIA:
Copies (FOIA and non-FOIA):
Unless otherwise set by statute, -                           n/a
first 50 pages
Letter/legal, black and white
copies for each page after the   0.10                        n/a
first 50 pages
Certified copies                 1.00                        n/a
Large format, audiotapes,        Cost                        n/a
digital copies or color copies
Police Department fees:
Accident report                  5.00                        n/a
Fingerprints                     50.00                       n/a
Dog impounding and maintenance   75.00                       n/a
Towing operations:
Primary relocation               150.00                      n/a
Daily fee                        45.00                       n/a
Long term storage                300.00                      n/a
Road service and towing of       -                           n/a
police vehicles
Administration fee               250.00                      n/a
Recreation center fees:
Recreation center:
Birthday parties/events:
Gym and multipurpose room:
Residents per hour               75.00                       2 hour minimum
Non-residents per hour           85.00                       2 hour minimum
Not for profit per hour          35.00                       2 hour minimum
Multipurpose room only:
Residents per hour               50.00                       2 hour minimum
Non-residents per hour           60.00                       2 hour minimum
Not for profit per hour          35.00                       2 hour minimum
Contracted hours:
Pick-Up Basketball/Soccer        60.00                       Per game
Gym, Monday - Friday 6:00 A.M. - 55.00                       $45 Non-Profit
3:00 P.M. per hour
Gym, Monday - Sunday 3:00 P.M. - 65.00                       $55 Non-Profit
10:00 P.M. per hour
Gym, Saturday - Sunday all day   65.00                       $55 Non-Profit
per hour
Personal training basketball     25.00
Stage                            825.00
Basement                         500.00
Multipurpose room                30.00
Ballpark:
Ballpark rate per hour           50.00                       2 hour minimum
Ballpark under the lights fee    65.00                       2 hour minimum
Practices                        40.00
Travel baseball games            100.00
Special events concession fee    100.00
Special events permits:
Parade, procession, or similar   50.00                       p/e
use of a public street
Mass participation sports
events, fairs and circuses:
Not for profit                   100.00                      p/e
For profit                       500.00                      p/e
All others                       25.00                       p/e
Vehicle stickers, parking, and
street use:
Parking passes and permits:
Metra lots (daily fee)           2.00                        Daily
Quarterly pass, commuter "C"     85.00                       Quarterly
permits
Quarterly pass, employee "E"     50.00                       Quarterly
permits
Annual pass, commuter "Y"        325.00                      Annual
permits
Resident overnight "PM" parking  90.00                       Daily
permit on Lakeview Avenue
Resident overnight "PM" permit   360.00                      Annual
Lakeview/Clay Avenues
Streetlight banners (may be      30.00                       n/a
waived)
Street/right-of-way opening fee  250.00                      p/e
Temporary street use permit
(trucks, trailers and tractors):
Single trip permit               50.00
Limited continuous use permit    50.00
Vehicle immobilization           100.00
Vehicle, low speed:
License, per year                200.00                      Annual
Late fee                         200.00                      Annual
Vehicle stickers:
Noncommercial passenger vehicles 60.00                       Annual
Motor driven cycles less than    25.00                       Annual
150 cc
Motorcycles, motor driven cycles 60.00                       Annual
and motor tricycles
Motor driven commercial
vehicles:
Less than 1 ton load capacity    90.00                       Annual
1 ton load capacity              125.00                      Annual
Excess of 1 ton load capacity    180.00                      Annual
Additional fee specified license 15.00                       n/a
Noncommercial passenger vehicles
registered to senior citizens:
First vehicle or transfer of
registration to new first        55.00                       Annual
vehicle in household
Each additional vehicle in       60.00                       Annual
household
Sticker transfer fee             15.00                       n/a
Late charge for all vehicle
stickers except those that       Double the applicable fee   n/a
qualify for the senior discount
Late charge for all vehicle
stickers that qualify for the    100% of non- discounted fee n/a
senior discount
Active duty military personnel   $ 5.00                      All licenses
and senior discount
Water and sewer:
Sewer/wastewater rate            2.20                        Per 100 cubic feet
Water rate                       5.38                        Per 100 cubic feet
Out of City limits rate add on   1.43                        Per 100 cubic feet
Water rate minimum charge        53.80                       Every 2 months
Well registration                200.00
Water service repair             75.00
Water tap on fees:
1 inch pipe                      1,300.00                    0.75 inch meter
1 1/4 inch pipe                  1,650.00                    1 inch meter
11/2 inch pipe                   1,950.00                    1 inch meter
2 inch pipe                      2,250.00                    1.5 inch meter
Over 2 inch pipe                 $2,250.00 plus $500.00 per  TBD
                                 additional inch
Inspection of water tap          150.00                      n/a
Delinquent payments;
discontinuance and restoration
of service:
Residential                      100.00
Commercial                       500.00
Fee for final meter reading      5.00
Change in statement information  5.00
Required deposit for new water   100.00
accounts
Repair of water tap              150.00
Sanitary and storm sewers:
Sanitary sewer tap:
Residential, single-family       1,500.00
dwelling, per tap
Residential, multiple-family     1,500.00
dwelling, per building
Nonresidential                   1,500.00
Storm sewer tap:
Residential, single-family       1,500.00
dwelling, per tap
Residential, multiple-family     1,500.00
dwelling, per building
Nonresidential                   1,500.00
Penalty                          10% of bill                 Plus 10% per month
Repairs:
Sanitary sewer                   $ 75.00
Storm sewer                      75.00
Inspections:
Sanitary sewer                   150.00
Storm sewer                      150.00
Tanks:
Above ground, per tank           50.00
Below ground, per tank           50.00
Wastewater user rate:
Basic user rate                  2.00                        Per 100 cubic feet
Zoning, ARC, and planning:
Architectural Review Committee
(ARC):
ARC administrative review        100.00                      p/e
ARC administrative review - re-  50.00                       p/e
application
Variations and sign packages     150.00                      p/e
Awnings                          25.00                       p/e
Building review (up to 5,000     100.00                      p/e
square feet)
Building review (over 5,000      200.00                      p/e
square feet)
Landscape or parking lot review  100.00                      p/e
Parking shortfall:
1 to 20 spaces                   150.00                      Per space
More than 20, less than 50       250.00                      Per space
spaces
Equal to or more than 50 spaces  500.00                      Per space
Planning and Zoning Commission
(PZC):
Accessory financial use:
Initial application fee          1,500.00                    n/a
Annual fee                       1,000.00                    n/a
Text amendment                   1,000.00                    p/e
Variation/special use:
3 or less units                  600.00                      n/a
4 or more units and/or           900.00                      n/a
commercial
Zoning Board of Appeals
transcript fee (actual           Cost                        n/a
transcript cost)
Planned unit development         2,000.00                    n/a
Report of zoning compliance:
1 to 2 units                     50.00                       n/a
3 to 4 units                     150.00                      n/a
Over 4 units                     150.00                      n/a
Nonresidential                   150.00                      n/a
Late fees - Certificate of
Compliance:
Real property containing 1       4 times application fee
single- family dwelling unit
Real property containing 2       $200.00
dwelling units
Real property containing 3 or
more dwelling units or           4 times application fee
nonresidential uses
Copy of Zoning Ordinance         $ 40.00                     n/a
Copy of zoning map               15.00                       n/a
Rental property inspections:
Inspection of a property with a  150.00                      Annual
single unit
Inspection of a duplex (per      150.00                      Annual
unit)
Inspection of a triplex (per     150.00                      Annual
unit)
Inspection of a property with 4  150.00                      Annual
units (per unit)
Inspection of a property with 5  125.00                      Annual
- 49 units (per unit)
Inspection of a property with 50 70.00                       Annual
or more units (per unit)
Late fee (30 days late or more)  Plus 25% of total fee       p/e
Late fee (90 days late or more)  Plus 50% of total fee       p/e
Missed inspection                $100.00                     p/e
First required re-inspection     150.00                      p/e
Second required re-inspection    200.00                      p/e
3+ required re-inspections       250.00                      p/e
Unregistered property late fee
(property has not been           300.00                      p/e
registered within 30 days of
becoming a rental)
Vacant residential and           500.00                      Annual
commercial fee
Â 
(Ord. 19-O-11, 7-16-2019; amd. Ord. 20-O-11, 5-5-2020; Ord. 20-O-26, 12-15-
2020; Ord. 21-O-24, 10-19-2021; Ord. 22-O-03, 3-15-2022; Ord. 22-O-04, 4-19-
2022; Ord. 24-O-04, 4-2-2024, eff. 4-15-2024)
3-2A-2: TIME OF PAYMENT; DELINQUENCIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Payment of the fees provided herein shall be made at the earlier of the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â At time of application where a permit or license is involved.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For renewal or periodic licenses and fees, at such intervals as set
by the City Administrator.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Except as otherwise provided herein, a late charge in the sum of ten
percent (10%) shall be assessed by the City if the fee due under the terms and
provisions of this article is not paid within sixty (60) days of the date of
the original invoice for service. (Ord. 2007-O-13, 5-1-2007)
3-2A-3: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Administrator may establish reasonable rules and regulations governing
the administration of the City's fee program. (Ord. 2007-O-13, 5-1-2007)
3-2A-4: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this article and any other
provision related to fees, the most recent provisions shall control. (Ord.
2007-O-13, 5-1-2007)
3-2A-5: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation, or employee of same,
violating any provision of this article shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In addition to any penalty or fine levied under subsection A of this
section, any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of
any provision of this article shall pay, as an additional fine or penalty, any
and all reasonable attorney fees incurred by the City in enforcing this
article.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In the event the City deems it necessary to bring any court action to
enforce this article, there shall be assessed, as an additional fine or penalty
against any person, partnership, firm or corporation violating this article,
all reasonable costs, expenses and attorney fees incurred by the City in
bringing said action, in addition to the fine provided in subsection A of this
section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Further provided, that the total of all fines assessed under
subsections A, B and C of this section shall not exceed one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for each offense, as defined herein.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this article shall not
release such person from paying any fee due and unpaid at the time of such
conviction, nor shall payment of any fine prevent prosecution for violation of
any of the provisions of this article.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The amount of any fee due hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the City.
An action may be commenced in the name of the City in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent fee. All unpaid fees shall be
deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 2007-O-13, 5-1-
2007)
ARTICLE B. BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT FEES
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Scope
3-2B-2: Building Construction
3-2B-3: Miscellaneous
3-2B-4: Development
3-2B-5: Examination Of Plans
3-2B-6: Certificate Of Occupancy
3-2B-7: Sign Permit
3-2B-8: Electrical Permits
3-2B-9: Air Conditioning And Heating Permits
3-2B-10: Plumbing Permits
3-2B-11: Street And Miscellaneous Permits
3-2B-12: Sanitary And Storm Sewers
3-2B-13: Demolition Permits
3-2B-14: Earthmoving Permit
3-2B-15: Moving Structures Permit
3-2B-16: Water System
3-2B-17: Alarm Permits
3-2B-18: Fire Department
3-2B-19: Outside Consultants
3-2B-20: Construction Trailers
3-2B-21: General Provisions
3-2B-22: Parking Shortfall Guidelines
3-2B-23: Additional Provisions
3-2B-24: Inspection Of Commercial Structures
3-2B-25: Enforcement Officials
3-2B-26: Stop Work Order
3-2B-27: Penalties
3-2B-28: Professional Services Escrow
3-2B-1: SCOPE:
The fees in this article shall be applied to the permits and construction
activities set out herein. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007)
3-2B-2: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-3: MISCELLANEOUS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Additions, Accessory Buildings And Miscellaneous: See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â ARC Application Fees: See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-4: DEVELOPMENT:
A deposit of one percent (1%) of the estimated cost of construction as
determined by building official shall be required before the City will begin
work including preliminary meetings on any new project. The deposit shall be
used to pay for all expenses incurred by the City including City staff time and
outside consultants that occur as a result of the proposed development. At no
time shall the amount on deposit be less than fifty percent (50%) of the
original deposit. In the event the deposit is depleted to fifty percent (50%)
of the original deposit, then the developer shall replenish the deposit to one
percent (1%) of the estimated cost of construction as determined by the
building official. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-5: EXAMINATION OF PLANS:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-6: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-7: SIGN PERMIT:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-8: ELECTRICAL PERMITS:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-9: AIR CONDITIONING AND HEATING PERMITS:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-10: PLUMBING PERMITS:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-11: STREET AND MISCELLANEOUS PERMITS:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-12: SANITARY AND STORM SEWERS:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-13: DEMOLITION PERMITS:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-14: EARTHMOVING PERMIT:
The fee to be paid for an earthmoving permit shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2008; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-
2018)
3-2B-15: MOVING STRUCTURES PERMIT:
The fee to be paid for moving any building or structure on or over any public
street, sidewalk, alley or public way shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-
2018)
3-2B-16: WATER SYSTEM:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-17: ALARM PERMITS:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-18: FIRE DEPARTMENT:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-19: OUTSIDE CONSULTANTS:
The permit applicant shall have added to his permit fees the costs of all
outside consultants for review and/or inspections. The fee will be the amount
as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-O-25, 5-7-2013; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Note: Sprinkler system, alarm system, Fire Code and/or Building Code review may
be subcontracted by the City to an outside firm. (Ord. 13-O-25, 5-7-2013)
For any sprinkler system, alarm system, Fire Code or Building Code review,
whether instituted at the request of applicant or the City, the fee is as
provided in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-O-25, 5-7-2013; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-20: CONSTRUCTION TRAILERS:
The fee to be paid for a temporary construction trailer shall be as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-O-25, 5-7-2013; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-21: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
All construction costs will be verified using the MEANS or Dodge construction
costs guide. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-22: PARKING SHORTFALL GUIDELINES:
See section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
3-2B-23: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Multiple Inspection Fee: In the event that an inspection is required
and/or requested for purposes other than a requested inspection for alarm and/
or fire suppression from the Fire Department, and either:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The items inspected fail to meet the requirements of this Code, and
upon reinspection fail to meet the requirements of this Code; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The requested reinspection fails to occur through no fault of the
City, (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007)
Â Â Â a reinspection fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter shall be charged for each subsequent inspection until
code requirements are satisfied. Said fee shall be payable by either the person
requesting the inspection or the contractor listed on the permit, in the sole
discretion of the building official.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The fee for a permit for large surface area antenna is as provided
in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-
2018)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Guarantee Deposit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â At the time of the issuance of any building permit, the building
official may require the owner of the real property upon which work is to be
undertaken or the general contractor pursuant to such building permit to
deposit security, as follows: cashier's check or a letter of credit in an
amount equal to one percent (1%) of the estimated cost of construction or a
five hundred dollar ($500.00) deposit in the form of a cashier's check,
whichever is greater.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â When all work for which such permit has been issued is completed as
required, the amount of the deposit will be returned, without interest, to such
owner or general contractor after final inspection and approval of the work by
the building official, whether before or after a certificate of occupancy has
been issued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In instances where a letter of credit has been deposited, in the
event all work is not promptly and satisfactorily completed as required by
ordinance of the City, prior to the expiration of the letter of credit, the
City shall cause such letter of credit to be negotiated and shall hold the cash
so received until the work is completed to the satisfaction of the building
official. Thereupon, such deposit shall be returned to the owner without
interest.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Miscellaneous:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Cost estimates are computed on builder costs, not on individual
costs. The estimated cost shall be determined by the building official which
shall be determined following the MEANS or Dodge construction costs guide.
(Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any code review, plan review, inspection, engineering review, or any
other duty of the building official, or any other matter necessary or
convenient for the implementation of the provisions of this Code, or other
matter necessary or convenient for the implementation of the provisions of this
Code, may be subcontracted by the City to an outside firm, consultant or
service. Upon receipt of any report or recommendation from the above, any of
the following: the firm, consultant, the service, the building official, the
Mayor, or his designee may issue any and all permits, certificates or other
documentation consistent with such review or inspection. The fee for any such
review or inspection, whether instituted at the request of applicant or City,
shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-O-25, 5-7-2013; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Upon submission of a proposal to the City for annexation,
subdivision, amendment to any planned unit development, or development of any
parcel within the City, or to be annexed thereto (hereinafter "proposal"), the
applicant shall pay all costs and fees incurred by the City associated with the
review of said proposal and all matters incidental thereto (hereinafter "review
fee"). Such costs and fees to be reimbursed by the applicant shall include, but
not be limited to, consultants, engineers, planners, legal and any other costs
or fees, whatsoever, incurred by the City and deemed by the City to be
necessary or convenient for the proper review of the proposal. Said review fee
shall also include any of the aforementioned items incurred by the City in the
negotiation, amendment, modification or implementation of any proposal, plan,
development, or annexation by the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The City Council may establish an initial development fee, as
indicated in section
3-2B-4 of this article, to be deposited with the City prior to the
consideration of any such proposal. In the event the City's cost to review any
proposal exceeds the development fee, the City shall notify the applicant
detailing said additional costs, and the applicant shall pay such additional
development fee at such times as required by the City Collector. In the event
that the costs actually incurred by the City do not exhaust the development
fees collected by the City, the unused portion shall be refunded to the
applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any change or modification to the proposal submitted for review by
the applicant following the inception of the review process may require, in the
discretion of the City, that the applicant pay to the City an additional
development fee hereunder. Any such additional costs will be identified by the
City Collector and requested of and paid by the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The proposal or collection of the development fee shall not be
construed to create or hold the City responsible or liable for any damage to
any personal property by reason of any inspection, reinspection or review
authorized herein, or failure to inspect, reinspect or review, nor shall the
approval of any application authorized herein constitute any representation,
guarantee or warranty of any kind by, nor create any liability upon, the City
or any official, agent or employee thereof. Further, the collection of a
development fee shall not be constituted to create or imply any agreement by
the City to grant any proposal, application, or permit requested by the
applicant hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â In addition to the fees provided herein, any applicant for a
building or other permit within the historic district of the former Fort
Sheridan Historic District shall be subject to and pay the fee required
pursuant to the "Intergovernmental Building Permit Agreement of 1998".
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â For all permits in the Fort Sheridan Historic District, where a fee
or charge for building permits has been specified, pursuant to the terms of the
annexation agreement, said fee shall be charged to the applicant regardless of
the fee schedule set forth in this article. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007)
3-2B-24: INSPECTION OF COMMERCIAL STRUCTURES:
Upon a change of ownership or a change in tenants of any commercial building or
commercial tenant space, the owner or tenant of such building or space shall
make written notice to the building official of any intent to occupy said space
or building. The building official shall inspect said space and issue either a
certificate of occupancy or partial certificate of occupancy. The fee to be
paid for the occupancy certificate and inspection of commercial establishments
and buildings shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-
2018)
3-2B-25: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The City Attorney and Police Chief of the City, pursuant to and
consistent with the duties of their respective offices, may assist in enforcing
this Code against violators who refuse to comply with notices from the Building
Officers, and each officer named in this subsection shall act in conjunction
with the building official, insofar as may be necessary and practicable.
Nothing contained in this subsection is intended or shall be construed to
disqualify or exempt any officer of the City not named herein from the duty of
assisting in the enforcement of this Code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Building Official, Fire Chief, and/or the Fire Chief's designee,
and other officers named who may assist them in case of violations of this
Code, are hereby authorized to use the police power of the City in such manner
and to such extent as the character of the violation and urgency, hazards,
rights and interests of the public health and safety may justify and demand for
the case involved. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007)
3-2B-26: STOP WORK ORDER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority: The Building Official, Fire Chief, and/or the Fire Chief's
designee, or his authorized representative, is hereby empowered and directed to
stop work on any building, structure, or portion thereof that is being done in
a reckless, unsafe or unsanitary manner, or with the use of defective or
improper materials; and on any building or structure, or portion thereof,
proposed for unlawful purposes as regards location, intended use, or occupancy;
any work that in any other respect is being done contrary to the provisions of
this Code or to the requirements of any other laws of the City. This right
shall exist and be performed irrespective of any permit that may or may not
have been either required or issued for the work, building, structure, or any
portion thereof involved. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Unlawful Continuance: Any person who shall continue any work in or
about the structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as he is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fee For Removal Of Stop Work Order: The fee for the removal of stop
work order shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-
2018)
3-2B-27: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In addition to any fee hereunder, any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation who shall violate a provision of this Code or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of an approved
plan or directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this Code or shall fail to have an approved
permit or certificate under the provisions of this Code shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) nor less than one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In addition to any penalty or fine levied under subsection A of this
section, any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of
any provision of this Code shall pay, as an additional fine or penalty, any and
all reasonable attorney fees incurred by the City in enforcing this Code.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In the event the City deems it necessary to bring any court action to
enforce this Code, there shall be assessed, as an additional fine or penalty
against any person, partnership, firm or corporation violating this Code, all
actual costs, expenses and attorney fees incurred by the City in bringing said
action in addition to the fine provided in subsection A of this section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The total of all fines assessed under subsections A, B and C of this
section shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, as
defined herein.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this Code shall not release
such person from payment of any fee and/or compliance with the terms and
provisions of this Code. (Ord. 2007-O-28, 8-21-2007)
3-2B-28: PROFESSIONAL SERVICES ESCROW:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person requesting consideration or action, submitting applications
to, seeking review of projects or otherwise seeking appearance before the City
Council, Plan Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, Appearance Review Committee,
or any other board, commission or committee of the City, shall be required
whenever practicable to deposit sufficient funds necessary to defray
anticipated professional consultant expenses to be incurred by the City.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Community Development Director, Finance Director or City Manager
shall, upon receipt of a matter which may or will require professional
consultant services to be rendered or utilized by the City, whenever
practicable make an estimate of the amount of the cost of expected services
based on the nature of the matter, its complexity, the relative need for
professional consultant advice and the expected duration of processing the
matter. The Community Development Director, Finance Director or City Manager
shall so notify the individual applicant in writing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â With the estimate of the necessary funds to defray all professional
costs the City might incur in the course of reviewing the matter submitted by
the applicant or other individual, which estimate shall be derived from the
approved fee schedule in effect or when necessary by consultation with the
professionals who are expected to render services regarding the matter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â With notice to the individual or applicant that the application or
matter shall not thereafter be reviewed or acted upon unless and until said sum
is received by the Community Development Director or City Manager.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The Community Development Director, Finance Director or City Manager
shall periodically review the funds on deposit to ensure that adequate funds
are available to satisfy all professional statements referring to said matter,
in addition to any administrative fees as required by ordinance or fee
schedule. In the event the Community Development Director, Finance Director or
City Manager determines that sufficient funds are not available, the Community
Development Director, Finance Director or City Manager shall notify the
applicant or other individual and request a further amount to defray the
anticipated additional costs in accordance with the standards set forth in this
section. The professionals previously engaged will be advised not to do any
further work until said sum has been received and the individual or applicant
shall be given fourteen (14) days to deposit the additional funds. In the event
that said funds are not deposited, the City shall take no further action on the
matter and shall so notify the applicant or other individual.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Upon conclusion of the matter and after all outstanding professional
fees incurred by the City for review of said matter have been satisfied in
full, the Community Development Director, Finance Director or City Manager
shall cause any remaining balance in the escrow account, if any, to be remitted
to the person who had deposited the funds. (Ord. 2011-O-29, 9-6-2011)
ARTICLE C. AMBULANCE SERVICE FEES
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Current Rate
3-2C-1: CURRENT RATE:
Users of ambulance services in the city of Highwood shall pay to the city of
Highland Park, the provider of ambulance transport services to the city of
Highwood, the Highland Park resident rate currently in effect as of the date of
the transport. The terms and conditions of the billing shall be set by the city
of Highland Park. (Ord. 16-O-17, 4-19-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
ARTICLE D. DEBT COLLECTION
SECTION:
3-2D-1: Debt Collection Established
3-2D-2: Rules And Regulations
3-2D-3: Penalties And Fees
3-2D-4: Conflicting Provisions
3-2D-1: DEBT COLLECTION ESTABLISHED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The amount of any fee issued by the city and not paid by the due date
shall be deemed a debt to the city. An action may be commenced in the name of
the city for the amount of any delinquent fee. All unpaid fees shall be deemed
delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city may engage the services of a private debt collection agency to
collect delinquent fees.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The city manager may select the collection agency to be utilized by the
city and direct such agency to collect debts on behalf of the city.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 15-O-19, 4-21-
2015)
3-2D-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any debt thirty (30) days or more past due from the date of the
original invoice shall be submitted to the city's collection agency. The agency
shall collect such debts on behalf of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Specific procedures surrounding the debt collection shall be governed
by state statute and the executed agreement between the city and the debt
collection agency.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The city manager may establish reasonable rules and regulations
governing the administration of the city's debt collection program. (Ord. 15-O-
19, 4-21-2015)
3-2D-3: PENALTIES AND FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Eligible debts as defined by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1 may
be collected by a third party collection agency.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A default in the payment of a fine or penalty or any installment of a
fine or penalty owed to the city may be collected by any means authorized for
the collection of monetary judgments. Any fees or costs incurred by the city in
the retention of private collection agencies for the collection of any fine or
penalty imposed shall be charged to the offender. This includes any default in
a fine or penalty or any installment of a fine or penalty that was previously
referred to an attorney or private collection agency and the payment of which
remains outstanding.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Upon delinquency, a thirty five percent (35%) cost of collection will
be added to any outstanding balance; the total debt may be reported to the
person's credit bureau file and submitted to the local debt recovery program.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Debts that are ineligible for participation under 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2-1 will be recovered with a contingency fee of thirty percent
(30%) of the total debt. (Ord. 15-O-19, 4-21-2015)
3-2D-4: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this article and
any other provision related to debt collection, the most recent provisions
shall control. (Ord. 15-O-19, 4-21-2015)
CHAPTER 3
HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Taxes Imposed
3-3-2: Exclusions
3-3-3: Administration And Enforcement By State
3-3-1: TAXES IMPOSED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Home Rule Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax: Pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1, a tax is hereby imposed effective July 1, 2015,
upon all persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
at retail in the city, other than an item of tangible personal property titled
or registered with an agency of the state, at the rate of one and three-fourths
percent (1.75%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of
such business while this chapter is in effect.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Home Rule Municipal Service Occupation Tax: Pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5, a tax is hereby imposed effective July 1, 2015,
upon all persons engaged in the city in the business of making sales of service
at the rate of one and three-fourths percent (1.75%) of the selling price of
all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen, either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate, as an
incident to a sale of service. (Ord. 15-O-13, 3-17-2015)
3-3-2: EXCLUSIONS:
The home rule municipal service occupation tax and the home rule municipal
retailers' occupation tax shall not be applicable to the sales of food for
human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold
(other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been prepared
for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines,
drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, and syringes
and needles used by diabetics. (Ord. 2007-O-11, 3-13-2007)
3-3-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT BY STATE:
The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the state department of
revenue. The department of revenue shall have full power to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-O-11, 3-13-2007)
CHAPTER 4
USE TAX
SECTION:
3-4-1: Tax Imposed
3-4-2: Collection And Payment Of Tax
3-4-1: TAX IMPOSED:
Effective July 1, 2015, a tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-6, as amended, upon the privilege of
using in the city any item of tangible personal property which is purchased at
retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered within the city. The
tax shall be at a rate of one and three-fourths percent (13/4%) of the selling
price of such tangible property, as "selling price" is defined in the use tax
act 1 , approved July 14, 1955, as amended. (Ord. 15-O-16, 3-17-2015)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-4-2: COLLECTION AND PAYMENT OF TAX:
Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois department of revenue for the city,
and such tax must be paid before the title or certificate of registration for
the property may be issued. (Ord. 82-O-13, 4-16-1982)
CHAPTER 5
TELECOMMUNICATIONS REVENUES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Simplified Telecommunications Tax
3-5-2: 911 Emergency Telephone System Surcharge
3-5-3: Electronic Video Programming Tax
3-5-1: SIMPLIFIED TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Title: This section may be called or referred to as the HIGHWOOD
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX ORDINANCE OF 2002. (Ord. 2002-O-48,
8-6-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Repeal Of Prior Ordinances:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Repeal Of Telecommunications Tax Ordinances Under 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Ordinances 69-O-14 and 82-O-9 of the city are hereby repealed in
their entirety, effective January 1, 2003, to be replaced by the tax imposed by
this section pursuant to the simplified municipal telecommunications tax act 1
.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If public act 92-0526, entitled the "simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act", is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason,
or if this section is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, then
ordinances 69-O-14 and 82-O-09 shall be deemed in full force and effect as of
the date public act 92-0526 or this section is repealed or becomes ineffective.
(Ord. 2002-O-48, 8-6-2002, eff. 1-1-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Repeal Of Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
Ordinance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Ordinance 97-O-37 of the city, establishing the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee, is hereby repealed in its
entirety, effective January 1, 2003, to be replaced by this section pursuant to
the simplified municipal telecommunications tax act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If public act 92-0526, entitled the "simplified municipal
telecommunications tax act", is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason,
or if this section is repealed or becomes ineffective for any reason, then
ordinance 97-O-37 shall be deemed in full force and effect as of the date
public act 92-0526 or this section is repealed or becomes ineffective. (Ord.
2002-O-48, 8-6-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
Â Â Â AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
city regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
Â Â Â DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
Â Â Â GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the city and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money, whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this section; b) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act 2 ; c) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code; d) 911 surcharges; or e) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act 3 , as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills
by retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
city;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a timesharing agreement;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act 4 , to the extent of such exemption and
during the period of time specified by the department of commerce and economic
opportunity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this section has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act 5 .
Â Â Â INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
Â Â Â INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
Â Â Â PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
Â Â Â PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
Â Â Â RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
"sales at retail" as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
Â Â Â RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
Â Â Â SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith, for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute, and other than between
a parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries, or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
Â Â Â SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, "service address" means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act 6 . For air-to-ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
Â Â Â TAXPAYER: A person who, individually or through his or her agents,
employees, or permittees, engages in the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the city and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this section.
Â Â Â TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed thereto, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line service, channel service, telegraph service, teletypewriter,
computer exchange service, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this section, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this section. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act 7 . (Ord. 2002-O-48, 8-6-2002, eff.
1-1-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Tax Imposed; Exemptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Effective January 1, 2011, a tax is hereby imposed upon any and all
the following acts or privileges:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in
the city intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in
the city interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under this subsection D1b, any taxpayer, upon proof that
the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this state. (Ord. 2002-O-48, 8-6-2002, eff. 1-1-2003; amd. Ord. 10-O-19,
6-1-2010)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The tax imposed by this section is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the city.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
department in the manner provided by the department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Returns To Department: Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed
under this section on telecommunications retailers shall be returned with
appropriate forms and information as required by the department pursuant to the
Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526,
section 5-50) and any accompanying rules and regulations created by the
department to implement this section.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Resales:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to
be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this section on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunications
tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the person's having discontinued the making of resales.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Except as provided in this subsection, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Rebates And Exemptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The tax authorized by this section and whose territory includes part
of another unit of local government or a school district may, by separate
ordinance, rebate some or all of the amount of such tax paid by the other unit
of local government or school district. Any such rebate shall be paid by the
city directly to the other unit of local government or school district
qualifying for the rebate as determined by the city's ordinance which shall not
be filed with the department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The tax authorized by this section may, by separate ordinance,
rebate some or all of the amount of such tax to persons sixty five (65) years
of age or older. Any tax related to such rebate shall be rebated from the city
directly to persons qualified for the rebate as determined by the city's
ordinance, which shall not be filed with the department. (Ord. 2002-O-48, 8-6-
2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
2 1. 35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.
3 2. 220 ILCS 5/9-221 or 5/9-222.
4 1. 220 ILCS 5/9-221.1.
5 2. 35 ILCS 635/1 et seq.
6 1. 35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.
7 2. 35 ILCS 120/2-27.
3-5-2: 911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM SURCHARGE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
Â Â Â  NETWORK CONNECTION: The number of voice grade communication channels
directly between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier's public
switched network without the intervention of any other telecommunications
carrier's switched network which would be required to carry the subscriber's
interpremises traffic and which connection either: 1) is capable of providing
access through the public switched network to a 911 emergency telephone system,
if one exists; or 2) if no system exists at the time a surcharge is imposed
under this section, which would be capable of providing access through the
public switched network to the local 911 emergency telephone system, if one
existed.
Â Â Â TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Means and includes every corporation, company,
association, joint stock company or association, firm, partnership or
individual, their lessees, trustees or receivers appointed by any court
whatsoever that owns, controls, operates or manages, within this state,
directly or indirectly, for public use, any plant, equipment or property used
or to be used for or in connection with, or owns or controls any franchise,
license, permit or right to engage in the provision of, telecommunications
services between points within the state which are specified by the user.
"Telecommunications carrier" does not include, however:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Telecommunications carriers that are owned and operated by any
political subdivision, public or private institution of higher education or
municipal corporation of this state, for their own use, or telecommunications
carriers that are owned by such political subdivision, public or private
institution of higher education, or municipal corporation and operated by any
of its lessees or operating agents, for their own use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Telecommunications carriers which are purely mutual concerns, having
no rates or charges for services, but paying the operating expenses by
assessment upon the members of such a company and no other person but does
include telephone or telecommunications cooperatives as defined in 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/13-212;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A company or person which provides telecommunications services
solely to itself and its affiliates or members, or between points in the same
building, or between closely located buildings, affiliated through substantial
common ownership, control or development; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A company or person engaged in the delivery of community antenna
television services as described in 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/13-203,
subdivision (c), except with respect to the provision of telecommunications
services by that company or person. (Ord. 91-O-15, 6-18-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Surcharge Imposed: A surcharge is hereby imposed upon all
telecommunications carriers engaged in the business of transmitting messages by
means of electricity originating within the corporate limits of the city and
terminating within the state of Illinois for funding of a 911 emergency
telephone system. Said surcharge is hereby imposed at a rate of two dollars
($2.00) per month per in-service "network connection", as defined in subsection
A of this section. A network connection shall not be deemed to be in service
where a subscriber's account is uncollectible. (Ord. 15-O-20, 4-21-2015, eff.
6-1-2015)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exemptions: The city clerk shall provide any telecommunications carrier
subject to the surcharge with a certified list of those network connections
assigned to the city to be exempt from imposition of the surcharge. The
certified list may be revised by the city on sixty (60) days' prior written
notice provided to the telecommunications carriers.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Surcharge Remittance And Return:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Payment Of Surcharge: Every telecommunications carrier shall remit
to the city treasurer the amount of surcharge due and owing for each calendar
month within thirty (30) days following expiration of each month to which the
surcharge applies, net of any network or other 911 or sophisticated 911 system
charge then due the particular telecommunications carrier as shown on an
itemized bill.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Report Required: Simultaneously with the remittance described in
subsection D1 of this section, each telecommunications carrier shall make a
return to the city treasurer for the period to which the remittance applies,
stating as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The name of the telecommunications carrier.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The telecommunications carrier's principal place of business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The amount of surcharge due.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Credit For Erroneous Payments: If it shall appear that an amount of
surcharge has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section,
whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount
shall be credited against any surcharge due, or to become due, under this
section from the telecommunications carrier who made the erroneous payments.
Ninety (90) days' prior notice shall be given to the emergency telephone system
board on any credit against a surcharge due. (Ord. 91-O-15, 6-18-1991; amd.
2009 Code)
3-5-3: ELECTRONIC VIDEO PROGRAMMING TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Rules And Definitions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Rules For Word Use: When not inconsistent with the context, words
used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number
include the singular number, and words in the singular number include the
plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
The headings used herein are solely for convenience only and shall not be
relied upon in construing any provision hereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â Â Â CITY: The city of Highwood, Illinois.
Â Â Â GROSS REVENUE: All revenue actually received directly or indirectly by any
person including, but not limited to, its affiliates, subsidiaries, parents, or
any entity in which the person has a financial interest, from, or in connection
with, the sale of video programming by electronic distribution in the city.
This shall include, but not be limited to, revenue from all service fees
including user fees, regular subscriber service fees, installation and
reconnection fees, leased channel fees, converter and other equipment rentals,
and advertising revenues. Advertising revenues attributable to "gross revenue"
for distribution within the city shall be determined by apportioning the total
advertising revenue of the electronic distribution system among those
governmental units entitled to a portion of those revenues based on the number
of subscribers in each such unit as a percentage of the total number of
subscribers in all such units. "Gross revenue" shall not include any taxes
imposed directly upon any subscriber or user by a state, local or other
governmental unit and collected by such person on behalf of such governmental
unit.
Â Â Â PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, joint venture or other legally recognized entity or organization.
Â Â Â SUBSCRIBER: Any person who legally receives, or has legally contracted for
the right to receive, an electronic distribution signal or service and does not
further distribute such signal or service.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Tax Imposed: Any person engaged in the electronic distribution of video
programming to subscribers within the city including, but not limited to,
operators of satellite master antenna systems (SMATV), multichannel multipoint
distribution systems (MMDS) and/or wireless cable direct broadcast satellite
systems (DBS), shall pay to the city an electronic video programming tax in an
amount equal to five percent (5%) of the annual gross revenues collected by
such person from or in connection with its operation of an electronic video
programming service within the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Due Date; Report Required: Payment of the electronic video programming
tax shall be made monthly, not later than sixty (60) days after each month.
Each electronic video programming tax payment shall be accompanied by a report
showing the basis for the computation and other relevant facts as may be
directed by the city.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Audit And Recomputation Of Payments: No acceptance of any electronic
video programming tax payment shall be construed as an accord that the amount
paid is in fact the correct amount. All amounts paid shall be subject to audit
and recomputation by the city; provided, however, that the city shall not audit
the person's revenue records more often than twice during each calendar year.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Penalty Interest: In the event that any electronic video tax payment or
recomputed amount is not made on or before the applicable dates heretofore
specified, interest shall be charged daily from such date at the annual rate of
twelve percent (12%) or at an annual rate equal to the prime rate at the
Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, plus two
percent (2%), whichever is higher.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Payment Required: Nothing in this section shall in any way authorize
the late payment of any sum due hereunder, and all such sums shall be paid in a
prompt and timely manner. (Ord. 92-O-59, 12-15-1992)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL UTILITIES TAXES
ARTICLE A. ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
3-6A-1: Definitions
3-6A-2: Tax Imposed; Rates
3-6A-3: Effective Date Of Tax
3-6A-4: Exemptions
3-6A-5: Collection Of Tax
3-6A-6: Tax Remittance And Return
3-6A-7: Credits For Erroneous Payments
3-6A-8: Statute Of Limitations
3-6A-9: Penalties
3-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply, as per 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2(d):
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state of Illinois or any of its political
subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee,
guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 3-105 of the
public utilities act 1  and shall include "telecommunications carriers" as
defined in section 13-202 of that act 2  and "alternative retail electric
suppliers" as defined in section 16-102 of that act 3 .
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for purposes
of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the use of
electricity by a public utility directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of the
city of Highwood, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail. (Ord. 99-O-35,
5-18-1999)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/3-105.
2 2. 220 ILCS 5/13-202.
3 3. 220 ILCS 5/16-102.
3-6A-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATES:
A tax is imposed on the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in
a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
city at the following rates:
Number Of Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed Per Month Amount Per Kilowatt Hour
Number Of Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed Per Month Amount Per Kilowatt Hour
Â Â Â Â First 2,000                                 $0.0061
Â Â Â Â Next 48,000                                 0.0040
Â Â Â Â Next 50,000                                 0.0036
Â Â Â Â Next 400,000                                0.0035
Â Â Â Â Next 500,000                                0.0034
Â Â Â Â Next 2,000,000                              0.0032
Â Â Â Â Next 2,000,000                              0.00315
Â Â Â Â Next 5,000,000                              0.0031
Â Â Â Â Next 10,000,000                             0.00305
All electricity used or consumed in excess of       0.0030
20,000,000
Â 
(Ord. 15-O-17, 4-8-2015, eff. 7-1-2015)
3-6A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The electric tax imposed in section
3-6A-2 of this article shall take effect as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Residential Customers: For residential customers, on August 1, 1999;
and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nonresidential Customers: For nonresidential customers, upon issuance
of the first bill to such customer for delivery services of electricity in
accordance with section 16-104 of the Illinois public utilities act, 220
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104, but in no case later than the last bill
issued to such nonresidential customer before December 31, 2000. (Ord. 99-O-35,
5-18-1999; amd. 2009 Code)
3-6A-4: EXEMPTIONS:
No tax is imposed by this article with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such activity may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any person engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling, or
transmitting electricity or using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city
be subject to taxation under the provisions of this article for such
transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the municipal retailers' occupation tax act authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-1 1 ; nor shall the tax authorized by this article be imposed
upon any person engaged in a business on any privilege unless the tax is
imposed in the manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in
businesses of the same class in the city, whether privately or municipally
owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the city. (Ord. 99-
O-35, 5-18-1999; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
3-6A-5: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Persons delivering electricity shall collect the electric tax imposed
in section
3-6A-2 of this article from the purchaser by adding such tax to the gross
charge for delivering the electricity on each bill issued to each such
customer. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse
the person delivering electricity for the expenses in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the city upon request.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser and, if unpaid, is recoverable in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity. Any tax
required to be collected pursuant to this article and any such tax collected by
a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt owed to the city by
such person delivering the electricity; provided, that the person delivering
electricity shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of
electricity the charges for which are written off as uncollectible, and
provided further, that if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering
supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax to the city, as per 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2(c).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, a report of the same shall be promptly forwarded to the city clerk,
with all pertinent details, so that the city can efficiently and expeditiously
bill and collect the purchaser for the tax directly, as per 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2(c). (Ord. 99-O-35, 5-18-1999)
3-6A-6: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â On or before November 30, 1999, each person obligated to remit electric
tax to the city pursuant to section
3-6A-5 of this article shall file a tax report or return with the city
treasurer for each of the months of August, September, and October 1999
stating:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â His name; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â His principal place of business; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â His telephone number and contact person; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The amount of electricity delivered to each person subject to the
tax hereunder within the city, broken down by the categories or strata
specified in section
3-6A-2 of this article; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The amount of tax due on the electricity delivered in each such
category, and the amount of such tax actually collected; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each person
obligated to remit electric tax to the city pursuant to section
3-6A-5 of this article shall make a like tax report or return to the city
treasurer for a corresponding three (3) months' period.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Each person making the tax report or return required hereunder shall,
at the time of making such report or return, transmit with the report or return
and pay to the city treasurer all electric taxes collected hereunder. (Ord. 99-
O-35, 5-18-1999)
3-6A-7: CREDITS FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 99-O-35, 5-
18-1999)
3-6A-8: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 99-O-35, 5-18-1999)
3-6A-9: PENALTIES:
Any person who fails to make a required tax report or return, or who makes a
fraudulent tax report or return, or who wilfully violates any other provision
of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and, in addition, shall be
liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due. (Ord. 99-O-35, 5-18-1999)
ARTICLE B. GAS UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
3-6B-1: Purpose
3-6B-2: Definitions
3-6B-3: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-6B-4: Effective Date Of Tax
3-6B-5: Exemptions
3-6B-6: Tax Remittance And Return
3-6B-7: Credit For Erroneous Payments
3-6B-8: Failure To Make Return; Determination By City
3-6B-9: Time For Payment; Statute Of Limitations
3-6B-10: Forms Of Returns And Reports
3-6B-11: Penalty
3-6B-1: PURPOSE:
This article shall provide for a municipal tax on gross receipts of gas
utilities. (Ord. 91-O-33, 9-17-1991)
3-6B-2: DEFINITIONS:
In this article, the following definitions shall apply:
CITY: The city of Highwood.
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, and for
all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property
of every kind and material and for all services rendered therewith, except for
that consideration provided by the city of Highwood, and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal corporation, the
state of Illinois or any of its political subdivisions, any state university
created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
TAXPAYER: A person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the city of Highwood, and not for resale.
TREASURER: The city treasurer. (Ord. 91-O-33, 9-17-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
3-6B-3: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of distributing,
supplying, furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the
corporate limits of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent
(5%) of the gross receipts from such business. (Ord. 91-O-33, 9-17-1991)
3-6B-4: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The tax provided for herein shall be based on the "gross receipts", as defined
in section
3-6B-2 of this article, actually paid to the taxpayer for bills issued on or
after January 1, 1992. (Ord. 91-O-33, 9-17-1991)
3-6B-5: EXEMPTIONS:
No tax is imposed by this article with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such activity may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any person engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling, or
transmitting gas be subject to taxation under the provisions of this article
for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under the
provisions of the municipal retailers' occupation tax act authorized by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 1 ; nor shall the tax authorized by this
article be imposed upon any person engaged in a business on any privilege
unless the tax is imposed in the manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in businesses of the same class in the city, whether privately or
municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the
city. (2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
3-6B-6: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â On or before the last day of each tax period, each taxpayer shall make
a return to the treasurer for each successive tax period stating: (Ord. 91-O-
33, 9-17-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Taxpayer's name.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The address of the taxpayer's principal place of business, as well
as the name and telephone number of the current person at the taxpayer's
business to whom inquiries regarding the return should be directed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Taxpayer's gross receipts which were received by the taxpayer from
customers within the city during the preceding calendar month from its business
defined herein, including budget plan and other customer owned amounts applied
during such month in payment of charges includable in gross receipts, and upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Each deduction allowed by law and this article separately itemized
and the total of such deductions for the reporting period.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Amount of tax computed on subsection A3 of this section less
subsection A4 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Such other reasonable information as the treasurer may require.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments of the
gross receipts tax to the city based upon any differences between such billings
and the taxable gross receipts.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In making such return, the taxpayer shall determine the value of any
consideration other than money received by the taxpayer. Such determination
shall be subject to review and revision by the treasurer in the manner
hereinafter provided for correction of returns.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â If the treasurer has reason to believe, and does believe, that any
return is incorrect, after notice to the taxpayer and an opportunity to be
heard, he shall correct such return according to his best judgment and
information, which return so corrected by the treasurer shall be prima facie
correct. (Ord. 91-O-33, 9-17-1991)
3-6B-7: CREDIT FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
If it shall appear that any amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as a result of mistake of fact or error
of law, such amount shall be credited against any tax due or to become due from
the taxpayer under this article; provided, that a claim for such credit shall
be filed with the treasurer within three (3) years after the erroneous payment
has been made. (Ord. 91-O-33, 9-17-1991)
3-6B-8: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; DETERMINATION BY CITY:
In case any taxpayer fails to make a return when and as required by this
article, the treasurer, after notice to the taxpayer and an opportunity to be
heard, shall determine the amount of the tax according to his best judgment and
information, which amount so fixed shall be prima facie correct. (Ord. 91-O-33,
9-17-1991)
3-6B-9: TIME FOR PAYMENT; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The taxpayer making the return shall, at the time of making such return, or
when the treasurer shall have determined the amount of the tax in case the
taxpayer fails to make a return, or within ten (10) days after notice of any
additional tax payable after review and revision by the treasurer for
correction of the taxpayer's return, pay to the city the amount of such tax. No
liability of the taxpayer shall be established by the treasurer after three (3)
years from the end of the calendar year in which the return is made. (Ord. 91-
O-33, 9-17-1991)
3-6B-10: FORMS OF RETURNS AND REPORTS:
All returns and reports shall be on forms prescribed by the treasurer, signed
by the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent for this purpose. (Ord.
91-O-33, 9-17-1991)
3-6B-11: PENALTY:
If any taxpayer refuses or fails, without reasonable cause, to make any return
or report when and as required by this article, such taxpayer shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 91-O-33, 9-17-1991; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 7
HOTEL OPERATORS' OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-7-1: General Requirements
3-7-2: Definitions
3-7-3: Tax Imposed; Rate And Restrictions
3-7-4: Tax Remittance And Return
3-7-5: Disposition Of Revenues
3-7-6: Late Payment And Interest Penalties
3-7-7: Civil Sanctions
3-7-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
There is hereby established within the city a hotel operators' occupation tax,
the terms, conditions and provisions of which are provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 97-O-20, 7-1-1997)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain living quarters or sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. The term
includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging homes, rooming houses
and apartment houses.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms, in a hotel
for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Includes any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, limited
liability company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, conservator or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters or sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 97-O-20, 7-1-1997; amd. 2009 Code)
3-7-3: TAX IMPOSED; RATE AND RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel at the rate of five percent (5%)
of the gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting, excluding,
however, gross receipts obtained from the renting, leasing or letting to
permanent residents of a hotel.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Persons subject to the tax imposed hereby may reimburse themselves for
their tax liability for such tax by separately stating such tax as an
additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination with the state tax
imposed under the hotel operators' occupation tax act 1  or in a single amount.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the city to
impose a tax upon the privilege of engaging in any business which, under the
United States constitution, may not be made the subject of taxation by the
state. (Ord. 97-O-20, 7-1-1997)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
3-7-4: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
Every person engaged in such business within the city shall file with the city
clerk, on or before the last day of each calendar month, a copy of the report
to the state department of revenue required by 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes
145/6. At the time a copy of the report is filed with the city clerk, the
person operating the hotel shall pay the amount of the tax required by this
chapter. (Ord. 97-O-20, 7-1-1997)
3-7-5: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
All revenue derived under the provisions of this chapter, except for the
collection of fees, shall be kept in a separate fund and used for the purpose
of promoting tourism, conventions, or otherwise to attract overnight
nonresidents to the city. No funds received pursuant to this chapter shall be
used to advertise or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel business.
(Ord. 97-O-20, 7-1-1997)
3-7-6: LATE PAYMENT AND INTEREST PENALTIES:
In the event a person required to pay the tax imposed hereby shall fail to
remit said tax when same is due, he shall be required to pay a penalty of one
percent (1%) of the tax due, and in addition thereto, he shall be required to
pay interest at the rate of one percent (1%) for each month the tax, or any
amount thereof, remains unpaid. However, the total amount of such interest and
penalty shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one late
payment. Each and every late payment for the month in which a tax is due shall
be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 97-O-20, 7-1-1997)
3-7-7: CIVIL SANCTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this chapter shall not
release such person from paying any fee and/or tax due and unpaid at the time
of such conviction, nor shall payment of any fee or tax prevent prosecution for
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The amount of any fee and/or tax due hereunder shall be deemed a debt
to the city. An action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent fee and/or tax. All
unpaid fees and/or taxes shall be deemed delinquent after they are due and
payable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 97-O-20, 7-1-1997)
CHAPTER 8
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Title
3-8-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
3-8-3: Definitions
3-8-4: Notice Requirements
3-8-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
3-8-6: Application Of Tax Payments
3-8-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-8-8: Audit Procedure
3-8-9: Appeals
3-8-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
3-8-11: Installment Contracts
3-8-12: Statute Of Limitations
3-8-13: Voluntary Disclosure
3-8-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
3-8-15: Review Of Liens
3-8-16: Penalty
3-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-
2001)
3-8-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city
procedures in connection with all of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the city tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 2001-
O-02, 1-3-2001)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 .
CITY: The city of Highwood, Lake County, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city's mayor and city council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city's mayor or his designee who is charged with
the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the "local tax administrator" to act in the "local tax administrator's"
stead. The "local tax administrator" shall have the authority to implement the
terms of this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the "local tax administrator" shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city, not an agency or department of the
state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than the 911 emergency
telephone surcharge set out in section
3-5-2 of this title.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
3-8-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator by
U.S. registered or certified mail. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
3-8-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date; or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001)
3-8-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first, to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second,
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third, to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001)
3-8-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Written Protest Required: The city shall not refund or credit any taxes
voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the event
that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be one year after the end of the calendar year in which
payment in error was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of
locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who
has not paid the amounts directly to the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Within thirty (30) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Grant the claim; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear no interest. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001)
3-8-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The tax;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The time period of the audit; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Time For Conducting Audit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
forty five (45) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than forty five (45) days from the date the notice is given, unless the
taxpayer and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time.
In the event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in
question, the taxpayer may request another date (within the 45 days), approved
in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Taxpayer's Books And Records:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer (within 45 days) of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-
2001)
3-8-9: APPEALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The reason for the assessment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The amount of the tax liability proposed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within thirty (30) days of receipt of the written protest
and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient
to all parties.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed thirty (30) days.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001)
3-8-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interest: Unless specifically provided in another duly enacted
ordinance, the city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be assessed
on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax to be one percent
(1%) per month. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing
a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to a specific rate percentage not to exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax due for the applicable reporting
period for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment
penalty shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the
controlling ordinance.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 2001-O-02,
1-3-2001)
3-8-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is ten (10) days' delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have ten (10) days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer
falls to cure the delinquency within the ten (10) day period or fails to
demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local
tax administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without further
notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001)
3-8-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-
2001)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
3-8-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-
2001; amd. 2009 Code)
3-8-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 2001-O-02, 1-3-2001)
3-8-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2001-O-02, 1-3-2001)
3-8-16: PENALTY:
Any taxpayer who violates any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 9
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY FOR TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
SECTION:
3-9-1: Rules Adopted
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: Registry Established
3-9-4: Maintenance Of Registry
3-9-5: Submission Of Registration
3-9-6: Eligibility Determined
3-9-7: Renewals And Termination
3-9-8: Amendment To Registration
3-9-9: Public Inspection Of Registries
3-9-10: Notices To Interested Parties
3-9-11: Noninterference
3-9-12: Amendment Of Provisions
3-9-1: RULES ADOPTED:
In accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-4.2, the tax
increment allocation redevelopment act (the "act"), the city hereby adopts the
registration rules of this chapter as registration rules for each interested
parties registry. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the definitions set
forth below:
ACT: The tax increment allocation redevelopment act, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
CITY: The city of Highwood, a home rule unit of government under the
constitution of the state of Illinois.
INTERESTED PARTY(IES): Any individual or organization or entity registered in a
specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose registration
has not been terminated in accordance with this chapter.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA: A "redevelopment project area" that:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Is intended to be designated (or has been designated) as a
"redevelopment project area" under the act; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Is subject to the interested parties registry requirements of the act.
REGISTRATION FORM: The form appended to the ordinance codified herein or such
revised form as may be approved by the city consistent with the requirements of
the act.
REGISTRY OR REGISTRIES: Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-4.2 for the redevelopment project area. (Ord. 2001-
O-60, 10-2-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
3-9-3: REGISTRY ESTABLISHED:
The city shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the effective date hereof or
hereafter designated. The city shall establish a new registry whenever it has
identified an area for study and possible designation as a redevelopment
project area. In any event, the process of establishing the new registry must
be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the notices required by
section
3-9-10 of this chapter or any other notices required by the act with respect to
the proposed redevelopment project area. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001)
3-9-4: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The registries shall be maintained by the city clerk or his or her designee. In
the event the city determines that an individual other than the clerk should
maintain the registries, the city may transfer the responsibility for
maintaining the registries to such other department; provided, that the city:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than
thirty (30) days prior to such transfer; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general circulation
in the city. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001)
3-9-5: SUBMISSION OF REGISTRATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Individuals: An individual seeking to register as an interested person
with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a
registration form to the city clerk.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Organizations: An organization seeking to register as an interested
person with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a
registration form to the city clerk. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001)
3-9-6: ELIGIBILITY DETERMINED:
All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with this chapter shall be registered in the applicable
registry within ten (10) business days of the city clerk's receipt of all such
documents. The clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant confirming
such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be entitled to
receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under this chapter
or as otherwise required under the act with respect to the applicable
redevelopment project area. If the city clerk determines that a registrant's
registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does not
comply with this chapter, the clerk shall give written notice to the registrant
specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any
defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting documentation.
(Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001)
3-9-7: RENEWALS AND TERMINATION:
An interested person's registration shall remain effective for a period of
three (3) years. At any time after such three (3) year period, the city clerk
shall provide written notice by regular mail to the interested person stating
that such registration shall terminate unless the interested person renews such
registration within thirty (30) days of the clerk's mailing of written notice.
To renew such registration, the interested person shall, within such thirty
(30) day period, complete and submit the same registration form then required
of initial registrants' operations in the city. The registration of all
individuals and organizations whose registration form is submitted in a timely
manner and complies with this chapter shall be renewed for an additional,
consecutive three (3) year period. If the city clerk determines that a
registrant's renewal registration form is incomplete or does not comply with
this chapter, the clerk shall give written notice to the registrant at the
address specified in the renewal registration form submitted by such
registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the clerk's notice. If all defects are not corrected within
thirty (30) days of the interested person's receipt of the city clerk's notice,
the interested person's registration shall be terminated. Any interested person
whose registration is terminated shall be entitled to register again as if a
first time registrant. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
3-9-8: AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION:
An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to the
city clerk by certified mail of any of the following: a) change in address for
notice purposes; b) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of the
contact person; and c) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly. (Ord. 2001-
O-60, 10-2-2001)
3-9-9: PUBLIC INSPECTION OF REGISTRIES:
Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal business
hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone number of
each interested person, and for organizations, the name and phone number of a
designated contact person. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001)
3-9-10: NOTICES TO INTERESTED PARTIES:
Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-5(a), notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information. Such notice shall be sent by regular mail
within a reasonable period of time prior to the adoption of the ordinance
fixing the public hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-5(a), notice of
changes to proposed redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add additional parcels
of property to the proposed redevelopment project area; 2) substantially affect
the general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan; 3) substantially
change the nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project; or 4)
increase the number of low or very low income households to be displaced from
the redevelopment project area; provided, that measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area, the total displacement of
households will exceed ten (10). Such notice shall be sent by regular mail not
later than ten (10) days following the city's adoption by ordinance of such
changes.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-5(c), notice of
amendments to previously approved redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add
additional parcels of property to the redevelopment project area; 2)
substantially affect the general land uses in the redevelopment plan; 3)
substantially change the nature of the redevelopment project; 4) increase the
total estimated redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan
by more than five percent (5%) after adjustment for inflation from the date the
plan was adopted; 5) add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized
list of redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan; or 6)
increase the number of low or very low income households to be displaced from
the redevelopment project area; provided, that measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area, the total displacement of inhabited
households will exceed ten (10). Such notice will be sent by regular mail not
later than ten (10) days following the city's adoption by ordinance of such
amendment.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9) for
redevelopment plans or projects that would result in the displacement of
residents from ten (10) or more inhabited residential units or that contain
seventy five (75) or more inhabited residential units, notice of the
availability of the annual report described by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-74.4-5(d), including how to obtain the annual report. Such notice shall be
sent by regular mail within a reasonable period of time after completion of the
certified audit report. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-6(d), notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the act for a proposed redevelopment
project area that will result in the displacement of ten (10) or more inhabited
residential units or which will contain seventy five (75) or more inhabited
residential units. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than
fifteen (15) days before the date of such preliminary public meeting. (Ord.
2001-O-60, 10-2-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
3-9-11: NONINTERFERENCE:
This chapter shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise interfere with the
ability of eligible organizations and individuals to register for receipt of
information to which they are entitled under the act. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-
2001)
3-9-12: AMENDMENT OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter may be amended by the city subject to and consistent with the
requirements of the act. (Ord. 2001-O-60, 10-2-2001)
CHAPTER 10
VEHICLE FUEL TAX
SECTION:
3-10-1: Title; Definitions
3-10-2: Tax Imposed
3-10-3: Payment On Retail Purchase
3-10-4: Collection And Remittance
3-10-5: Registration; Return; Filing; Late Fee
3-10-6: Recordkeeping
3-10-7: Sales And Uses Presumed Taxable; Burden Of Proof
3-10-8: Exemptions
3-10-9: Severability
3-10-10: Deposit Of Revenues
3-10-1: TITLE; DEFINITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â This chapter shall be known and cited as the HIGHWOOD VEHICLE FUEL TAX
ORDINANCE, and the tax imposed herein shall be known and cited as the "Highwood
vehicle fuel tax".
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Whenever used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the following meanings:
Â Â Â  CITY: The city of Highwood.
Â Â Â COLLECTOR: The Highwood city collector.
Â Â Â DIRECTOR OR DIRECTOR OF REVENUE: The finance director of the city.
Â Â Â PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
corporation, joint venture, joint stock company, receiver, trustee,
conservator, legal representative, or other legally recognized entity.
Â Â Â RETAIL DEALER OR RETAIL VEHICLE FUEL DEALER: Any person who is engaged in
the business of selling vehicle fuel in the city to a purchaser for the
purchaser's use or consumption, and not for resale in any form.
Â Â Â SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale to a person for that person's use or consumption
and not for resale to another.
Â Â Â SALE, RESALE, OR PURCHASE: Any transfer of ownership or title or both, any
exchange or any barter, whether conditional or otherwise, in any manner or by
any means whatsoever for consideration.
Â Â Â USE: The exercise of any right to or power over vehicle fuel incident to the
ownership thereof, including, but not limited to, the receipt of vehicle fuel
by any person into a fuel supply tank of a vehicle.
Â Â Â VEHICLE: Any machine or device in, upon or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a rail, street, road, highway or
otherwise upon land, in or upon water, or through the air. "Vehicle" includes,
without limitation, automobiles, trucks, buses, trains, motorcycles, boats,
airplanes and helicopters.
Â Â Â VEHICLE FUEL: Any volatile and inflammable liquid or gas produced, blended
or compounded for the purpose of or which is suitable for operating a vehicle,
or which is used in propelling a vehicle. "Vehicle fuel" includes, without
limitation, gasoline, gasohol, diesel oil, motor benzol, motor benzene, propane
gas fuel, kerosene and "special fuel" as defined in the Illinois motor fuel tax
law, as amended. (Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
3-10-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of purchasing or using, in the city
of Highwood, vehicle fuel purchased in a sale at retail. The tax shall be at a
rate of eight cents ($0.08) per gallon of vehicle fuel. The ultimate incidence
of and liability for payment of the tax shall be upon the purchaser or user of
the vehicle fuel, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose a
tax upon the occupation of selling or distributing vehicle fuel. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for any retail dealer to fail to add this tax to the
retail price of vehicle fuel or to absorb the tax. The tax shall be in addition
to any and all other taxes. (Ord. 15-O-12, 3-17-2015, eff. 5-1-2015; Ord. 19-O-
14, 8-20-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3-10-3: PAYMENT ON RETAIL PURCHASE:
"Use in the city" shall be deemed to occur only at the place in the city where
the vehicle fuel is transferred into the vehicle by which it is to be consumed.
To the extent that a person has paid the tax imposed herein on the retail
purchase of vehicle fuel, he shall be exempt from the payment of and liability
for said tax on the use of such fuel. (Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-1-
2012)
3-10-4: COLLECTION AND REMITTANCE:
The Highwood vehicle fuel tax shall be collected by each retail dealer doing
business in the city who sells vehicle fuel to a person. Any retail dealer who
shall pay the tax to the city shall collect the tax from any person to whom the
retail dealer sells vehicle fuel.
The retail dealer shall remit such tax directly to the collector by the last
day of the month following the month in which such vehicle fuel was sold, and
shall collect such tax from his purchasers.
If any purchaser or user receives vehicle fuel upon which the Highwood vehicle
fuel tax has not been collected by the retail dealer, such purchaser or user
shall pay the tax directly to the city by the last day of the month following
the month in which such purchaser or user made the taxable purchase or use of
the vehicle fuel.
Any tax remittance required to be made directly to the city shall be made to
the collector and shall be accompanied by a remittance form prescribed by the
city. Any retail dealer, purchaser or user who is required to remit tax
directly to the city on a frequently recurring basis shall register with the
city on forms prescribed by the city.
Any person who collects the Highwood vehicle fuel tax shall do so as a trustee
for and on account of the city of Highwood. (Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-
1-2012)
3-10-5: REGISTRATION; RETURN; FILING; LATE FEE:
Every retail dealer shall register with the city within thirty (30) days after
the commencement of such business. Every retail dealer shall file each month
with the city a remittance return, containing a report of his sales of vehicle
fuel to users in the city occurring in the prior month. The return shall be in
a form prescribed and furnished by the city. Each such return shall be
accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of tax applicable to the
sales reported. Payment shall be made to the city collector. The remittance and
return shall be due on or before the last day of the month following the month
for which the return and remittance is made.
If any tax imposed by this chapter is not paid when due, a late payment
interest penalty equal to two percent (2%) of the unpaid tax shall be added to
each month that such tax remains unpaid. (Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-1-
2012)
3-10-6: RECORDKEEPING:
Every retail dealer required to collect and remit the tax imposed herein shall
keep accurate and complete books and records of his business of selling vehicle
fuel, including the maintenance of all invoices and other source documents.
Every purchaser or user required to register with the city because of such
purchaser's or user's frequently recurring direct tax liability shall keep
accurate and complete books and records of his purchases and uses of vehicle
fuel in the city, including the maintenance of all invoices and other source
documents. All books and records required by this chapter shall be kept in the
English language and shall be subject to inspection by the director or his duly
authorized agents or employees, at all times during business hours of the day.
(Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
3-10-7: SALES AND USES PRESUMED TAXABLE; BURDEN OF PROOF:
It shall be presumed that all sales and uses of vehicle fuel in the city are
subject to tax under this chapter until the contrary is established. The burden
of proving that a sale or use is not taxable hereunder shall be upon the retail
dealer, purchaser or user so claiming. (Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-1-
2012)
3-10-8: EXEMPTIONS:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to the following sales or uses
of vehicle fuel:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Sale by a retail dealer to a distributor holding a valid registration
certificate;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Sale by a retail dealer to a distributor or retailer of vehicle fuel
whose place of business is outside the city;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Sale or use for purposes other than for propulsion or operation of a
vehicle;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Sale to or use by any "transportation agency", as defined in the
regional transportation authority act, as amended, which is operated by,
receiving a grant from or has a service agreement with the regional
transportation authority or any of its service boards;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Sale or use to the extent the tax imposed by this chapter would violate
the Illinois or United States constitution;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Sale to or use by the federal government or any state or local
governmental body;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Sale to or use by any air common carrier, certified by the carrier to
be used for consumption, shipment or storage in the conduct of its business as
an air common carrier, for a flight destined for a destination outside the
United States. (Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
3-10-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter which can be
given effect without the invalid application or provision, and to this end each
such invalid provision or invalid application of this chapter is severable,
unless otherwise provided by this chapter. In particular, but without
limitation, each provision creating an exception to or an exemption or
exclusion from the imposition of the tax is severable. It is hereby declared to
be the legislative intent of the city council that this chapter would have been
adopted had any such unconstitutional or otherwise invalid provision or
application not been included. (Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
3-10-10: DEPOSIT OF REVENUES:
All revenues received by the city pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited
in the general fund. (Ord. 2011-O-36, 11-1-2011, eff. 1-1-2012)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Liquor Control Commission
4-1-3: Commissioner's Powers And Duties
4-1-4: License And Compliance Required
4-1-5: Ineligibility For License
4-1-6: Application For License
4-1-7: Classification Of Licenses
4-1-8: Payment Of License Fees
4-1-9: Reserved
4-1-10: Term Of License; Expiration
4-1-11: Renewal Of License
4-1-12: Contents Of License; Signature; Location And Premises
4-1-13: Change Of Ownership
4-1-14: Posting License Required
4-1-15: Reserved
4-1-16: Safety And Sanitary Regulations
4-1-17: Employees
4-1-18: Duties And Restrictions Of Licensee And Employees
4-1-19: Prohibited Entry, Sales, Possession, Consumption And Activities
4-1-20: Packaging Restrictions
4-1-21: Improper Conduct
4-1-22: Responsibilities Of Licensee
4-1-23: Compliance With Tax Laws
4-1-24: BASSET Training
4-1-25: Inspections
4-1-26: Appeals
4-1-27: Scope; Violations; Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall be defined according to the
Illinois liquor control act of 1934 1 , as amended. In addition thereto, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
                             A state certified beverage alcohol seller's and
                             server's educational training program licensed by
                             the state of Illinois department of human
BASSET PROGRAM:              services, division of alcoholism and substance
                             abuse (DASA), 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-
                             12(a)(2), 5/3-12(a)(11) and 5/6-27 and regulated
                             under the Illinois administrative code.
BREWER:                      A person who is engaged in the manufacture of
                             beer.
CITY:                        The city of Highwood, Illinois.
CITY CLERK:                  The city clerk of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
CITY COLLECTOR:              The city collector of the city of Highwood,
                             Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL:                The city council of the city of Highwood,
                             Illinois.
                             A person who distills, ferments, brews, makes,
DISTILLER:                   mixes, concocts, processes, blends, bottles, or
                             fills an original package with any alcoholic
                             liquor.
LICENSEE:                    One who has obtained a license pursuant to the
                             provisions of this chapter.
LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER: The mayor of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
MAYOR:                       The mayor of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
                             Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or other
PUBLIC WAY:                  public thoroughfare. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016; Am.
                             Ord. 18-O-06, 4-17-2018)
Â 
Â 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
4-1-2: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION:
The liquor control commission of the city shall be composed of the mayor, as
local liquor control commissioner, and such other person or persons, including
assistant commissioners, as he may appoint, with the consent and approval of
the city council, to assist him in the exercise of the powers and the
performance of the duties herein provided and required by the statutes of the
state. Anyone appointed as an assistant commissioner shall serve in such
capacity without compensation of any kind. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-3: COMMISSIONER'S POWERS AND DUTIES:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause licenses for the sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor in the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â 1. He may revoke or suspend any license issued by him if he determines
that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes, this chapter or any other ordinance enacted in the city or any rule
or regulation established by the local liquor commissioner or the state
commission which is not inconsistent with law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In addition to the suspension, the local liquor control commissioner
may levy a fine on the licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve
(12) month period; one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second
violation within a twelve (12) month period; and two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12)
month period; each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. Not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in
fines under this chapter may be imposed against any licensee during the period
of his license. Proceeds from such fines shall be paid into the general
corporate fund. However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and
no licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the local liquor
control commissioner with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee
affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings
shall be open to the public, and the local liquor control commissioner shall
reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an official record of the
proceedings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If the local liquor control commissioner has reason to believe that
any continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately
threaten the welfare of the city, he may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee
an opportunity to be heard during that period; except, that if such licensee
shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses. The local liquor control commissioner shall, within five (5) days
after such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should
be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason
or reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the amount of
the fine, the period of suspension (for not more than 30 days), or that the
license has been revoked, and shall serve a copy of such order within five (5)
days upon the licensee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The provisions of any amendment to the Illinois liquor control act
which supersedes, supplements, amends or enhances the penalty provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed incorporated by reference.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent with the liquor control
act passed by the general assembly and the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â By general order entered in the minutes of the liquor control
commission, he may authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time
upon the premises licensed under the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether any of the provisions of this chapter, or any rule or regulation
adopted by the commission, or any provision of the liquor control act adopted
by the general assembly, has been or are being violated, and at such time to
examine said premises of the licensee in connection therewith.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To receive complaints from any citizen within the city that any
provisions of the state laws or this chapter have been or are being violated
and to act upon such complaints in the manner provided by law.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To examine, or to cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom a citation and
proceeding has been instituted by the state liquor control commission; to
examine, or to cause to be examined, the books and records of any such
applicant or licensee; and to hear testimony and take evidence for his
information in the performance of his duties; and for such purposes, to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â He may appoint a designee to act on his behalf.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â He shall have the right to require fingerprints of any applicant, or
any individuals involved in any way with the business of the applicant, for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, and may collect a fee therefor. (Ord.
16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-4: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person, partnership, corporation, society, club or association shall
offer for sale or sell alcoholic liquor at retail or over the internet in the
city unless such person, firm, corporation, society, club or association shall
have first obtained a license therefor from the liquor control commission of
the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person, partnership, corporation, society, club or association shall
deliver or cause to be delivered any alcoholic liquor to any location within
the city in connection with any sale at retail or over the internet, who is not
otherwise authorized, unless such person, firm, corporation, society, club or
association shall have first obtained a license therefor from the liquor
control commission of the city. The term "deliver" shall include, but is not
limited to, delivery by U.S. postal service, parcel delivery service, express
service or other carrier.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No person, partnership, corporation, society, club or association shall
give to any person any alcoholic liquor in or upon any public place of
business, premises, restaurant, or store within the city unless the business,
premises, restaurant or store holds a valid liquor license issued by the city
and there is full compliance with the requirements of that liquor license
classification. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be issued, renewed or continue in existence for any person,
corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity ineligible
for a license pursuant to 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-2. (Ord. 16-O-12,
3-1-2016)
4-1-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The following shall apply to all license applications other than a class K
special event license:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Signature And General Requirements: Applications for a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail in the city shall be filed with the city manager's
office, in writing, on forms furnished by the city, signed by the applicant if
an individual, or by all partners in a partnership, or all limited partners in
a limited partnership, and if the applicant is a corporation, by the president
and secretary of the corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
contain statements and information as set forth below. If a club, said
application shall be signed by a duly authorized agent thereof and verified by
oath or affidavit, and shall contain statements and information as set forth
below. A new application shall be executed each year for a renewal of a
license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fingerprints: Within three (3) working days of filing of the
application, every person who makes an application for a license to sell
alcoholic liquor at retail shall register his or her fingerprints, and those of
all applicants, shareholders, officers, partners, limited partners, managers
and agents (unless waived, for good cause shown, by the local liquor control
commissioner), in the police department. This subsection applies to new
applicants as well as new operating managers. Renewal applications for which
the applicants have already been fingerprinted and a check has been made by the
police will not be required to resubmit for fingerprints unless specifically
required by the liquor control commissioner or the chief of police.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Insurance: No license shall be issued under this chapter unless the
applicant files with his application a certificate by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state, certifying that the applicant has in
force and in effect insurance sufficient to cover the limits of liability
established by the Illinois liquor control act, 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/6-21, and any other statutory requirement or requirements under local
ordinances. Such evidence shall be submitted yearly for license renewal, and
the insurance shall be kept in effect constantly during the existence of the
license. Each such policy of insurance shall contain a provision requiring
thirty (30) days' prior notice to the local liquor control commissioner before
it can be canceled by the insurance company, and this provision shall be
indicated on all certificates of insurance required herein.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â BASSET Training: No license shall be issued under this chapter unless
the applicant files with his application a copy of each BASSET certificate, as
required under this chapter. Further, the applicant shall provide a statement,
under oath, of the applicant's proposed hours of operation and that, in the
opinion of the applicant, a sufficient number of employees have received said
training to ensure compliance with this chapter. No license shall be issued
under this chapter if the local liquor control commissioner determines that the
applicant does not have sufficient trained personnel to ensure compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Appearance Review Required: The applicant shall submit an application
to the city appearance review committee and obtain an appearance review
committee approval of the exterior design and maintenance of the premises, a
condition precedent to the issuance of any liquor license hereunder.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Information Regarding Applicants: Each application shall disclose the
following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For all applicants (including partners, limited partners,
stockholders, managers, and agents as set forth below), the full name including
middle initial, date of birth, social security number, home and work addresses
and home and work telephone numbers; in the case of a partnership or limited
partnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof; in the case
of a corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation and
certificate of good standing, the date of incorporation, the state of
incorporation, and if such state is a state other than Illinois, a certified
copy of the certificate of registration, the date upon which the corporation
was certified as a foreign corporation entitled to conduct business in
Illinois, the names and addresses of the officers and directors and the names
and addresses of all stockholders; further, all corporations, limited liability
companies, or partnerships licensed under this chapter shall report to the
local liquor control commissioner within ten (10) days all internal changes in
such entity pertaining to the persons whose names are indicated on the liquor
license application. Further, all applicants shall provide the names and
additional information required in this subsection for any and all managers or
agents conducting the business of the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Citizenship of the applicant(s), place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of naturalization.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Character of business of applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Length of time applicant has been in the business of that character,
or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was issued and a
copy of the articles of incorporation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Statement whether or not any applicant has made application for a
similar or other license on premises other than that described in the
application, and the disposition of such other application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Statement whether or not any applicant has ever been convicted of a
felony or is otherwise disqualified to receive a license by reason of any
matter or thing contained in this chapter or the laws of the state or the
ordinances of the city. (For this subsection, a list of any criminal arrests
must be listed on the application other than minor traffic offenses.)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A statement whether any of the applicants has convictions for such
activity as gambling, prostitution, narcotics violations, etc.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â If the applicant is a partnership or under sole ownership, applicant
must show evidence that the requirements of the assumed business name act 1
have been complied with prior to such application being approved. If the
applicant is a corporation doing business under any name other than the
corporate name, the applicant must show written evidence that he has obtained
all applicable approvals for the use of the assumed name including a
certificate from the secretary of state. The evidence required herein shall
consist, at a minimum, of a copy of an accepted assumed name certificate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â A statement whether or not any applicant's previous license issued
by any state or subdivision thereof, or by the federal government, has been
revoked or suspended and the reasons therefor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â A statement that the applicant(s) will not violate any of the laws
of the state, or of the United States, or any ordinance of the city in the
conduct of his place of business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â A statement from the applicant that he is of good character and
reputation to the community in which the applicant resides.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â A copy of the deed or document of title indicating ownership for
any premises which is actually owned by the applicant, or a copy of the written
lease held by the applicant for the premises. Any lease shall be for the full
period for which the license sought is to be issued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â The applicant will forward to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, his agent, or the Chief of Police any additional information
required by him to complete the required investigation as to the qualification
of the company, applicants, and others required by this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to
allow the Local Liquor Control Commissioner to obtain such information as he
may require, in his sole discretion, to determine any person, firm or entity
directly or indirectly benefiting from the sale of liquor upon a premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, for good cause shown, in
his sole discretion, waive any requirement hereunder, unless prohibited by
State law.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â State License Required: No applicant under this chapter shall operate a
liquor business without having obtained a liquor license issued by the Illinois
Liquor Control Commission. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 405/0.01 et seq.
4-1-7: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Class A License: Restaurant or bar full license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to sell beer, wine and spirits on
premises only.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be ten (10). (Ord. 20-O-08, 2-
18-2020; amd. Ord. 23-O-05, 5-16-2023; Ord. 23-O-07, 6-20-2023; Ord. 24-O-03,
2-6-2024; Ord. 24-O-11, 9-3-2024)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or three o'clock (3:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day. (Ord. 16-O-52, 11-15-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class A license class and the annual fee
for this Class A license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Class B License: Restaurant or bar full license with retail wine or
beer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to sell beer, wine, and spirits on
premises. The license holder may also sell bottles of wine or beer in the
original package as the manufacturer intended for sale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be eight (8). Ord. 20-O-17, 8-
18-2020; Ord. 23-O-08, 7-18-2023; Ord. 24-O-06, 7-16-2024; Ord. 24-O-13, 11-19-
2024)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or three o'clock (3:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Spirits may not be sold on the premises in their original package
for consumption off premises. (Ord. 16-O-52, 11-15-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class B license class and the annual fee
for this Class B license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Class C License: Restaurant or bar, beer and wine only license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to sell beer and wine, but is not
authorized to sell spirits. The sale of beer and wine must be on premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be eight (8). (Ord. 20-O-07, 2-
18-2020; amd. Ord. 23-O-02, 2-7-2023; Ord. 23-O-07, 6-20-2023; Ord. 24-O-03, 2-
6-2024)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or three o'clock (3:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class C license class and the annual fee
for this Class C license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Class D License: Restaurant or bar, beer and wine only with retail wine
or beer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to sell beer and wine on premises, but
is not authorized to sell spirits. The license holder may also sell bottles of
wine or beer in the original package as the manufacturer intended for sale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be two (2). (Ord. 20-O-12, 6-
16-2020; Ord. 23-O-08, 7-18-2023; Ord. 24-O-07, 7-16-2024)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or three o'clock (3:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Spirits may not be sold on the premises in their original package
for consumption off premises. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The initial fee for a Class D license shall be three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00). The annual fee for a Class D license shall be one thousand
eight hundred seventy-five dollars ($1,875.00). (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018; amd.
Ord. 21-O-07, 4-20-2021)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Class E License: Liquor store.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to sell beer, wine and spirits in the
original package as the manufacturer intended for sale, but not for consumption
on the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be three (3).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The dispensing of samples of beer, wine or spirits for promotional
or advertising purposes is allowed with the approval of the Liquor Commissioner
or his designee. A BASSET certified person shall oversee the promotional event
and distribution of samples. The licensee shall perform an identification check
of each person to whom a sample is dispensed. The samples shall be consumed on
the premises and not carried outside the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Other than beer, any container of alcoholic liquor smaller than
three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL) must be inaccessible to self-
service. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class E license class and the annual fee
for this Class E license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Class F License: Convenience store with liquor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to sell beer, wine and spirits in the
original package as the manufacturer intended for sale, but not for consumption
on premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be one.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The alcohol sales shall be incidental to and not the primary
business for the licensee. The sale of alcohol shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the total sales area on the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Other than beer, any container of alcoholic liquor smaller than
three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL) must be inaccessible to self-
service. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class F license class and the annual fee
for this Class F license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Class G License: Convenience store with beer and wine only.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to sell beer and wine in the original
package as the manufacturer intended for sale, but not for consumption on
premises. The sale of liquor or spirits is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be two (2).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The sale of beer and wine shall be incidental to and not the primary
business for the licensee. The sale of alcohol shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the total sales area on the premises. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class G license class and the annual fee
for this Class G license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Class H License: Grocery or retail store with liquor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to sell beer, wine and spirits in the
original package as the manufacturer intended for sale, but not for consumption
on premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be one.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The sale of alcohol shall be incidental to and not the primary
business for the licensee. The sale of alcohol shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the total sales area of the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The dispensing of samples of beer, wine or spirits for promotional
or advertising purposes is allowed with the approval of the Liquor Commissioner
or his designee. A BASSET certified person shall oversee the promotional event
and distribution of samples. The licensee shall perform an identification check
of each person to whom a sample is dispensed. The samples shall be consumed on
the premises and not carried outside the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Other than beer, any container of alcoholic liquor smaller than
three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 mL) must be inaccessible to self-
service. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class H license class and the annual fee
for this Class H license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Class I License: Nonprofit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A Class I license is issued to a nonprofit club and authorizes the
sale of beer, wine and spirits on premises only.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be one.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or three o'clock (3:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A Class I license allows for the sale of alcohol to club members and
guests in public and private rooms, including privately sponsored parties,
lunches, dinners, receptions and similar gatherings. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class I license class and the annual fee
for this Class I license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Class J License: Catering license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A Class J license shall authorize the sale and service of alcoholic
liquor by a "caterer retailer" as defined in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1-3.34. It shall allow the holder to serve alcoholic liquor as an incidental
part of a food service that serves prepared meals. The caterer retailer shall
sell alcoholic liquor for consumption only as part of a catered event and only
during the catered event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be one. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-
2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class J license class and the annual fee
for this Class J license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Class K License: Special event license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to temporarily sell beer, wine or
liquor during a special event such as a festival, picnic, business event or
celebration. The license holder must hold a special events license or have
authorization from a special events license holder to sell alcohol.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Alcohol may only be sold during the hours of operation granted for
the special event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â An applicant must apply for a Class K license at least fourteen (14)
days prior to the event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The issuance of a special event license shall be contingent upon the
applicant providing the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with proof of
insurance in amounts and with coverage acceptable to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and name the City, its officers, agents and employees as
additional insureds, covering any loss or claim, including, but not limited to,
dramshop insurance and general liability insurance, arising out of the special
event and the sale, possession and consumption of alcoholic liquor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â In the application for a Class K license the application must
provide clear boundaries of the area in which alcoholic liquor is allowed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The license holder shall comply with all other requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class K license class and the annual fee
for this Class K license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Class L License: Beer and wine production and sampling license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License holder is authorized to manufacture, package, distribute,
store and sell beer or wine at retail for on or off premises consumption in
compliance with Federal and State laws.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of licenses allowed shall be three (3).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alcohol sales may not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or three o'clock (3:00)
A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's Day,
Thanksgiving and the day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The dispensing of samples of beer, wine or spirits for promotional
or advertising purposes is allowed with the approval of the Liquor Commissioner
or his designee. A BASSET certified person shall oversee the promotional event
and distribution of samples. The licensee shall perform an identification check
of each person to whom a sample is dispensed. The samples shall be consumed on
the premises and not carried outside the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Retail sales for off premises consumption and on premises
consumption shall be limited to the retail portion of the licensed premises;
except, however, on premises consumption may be allowed in other areas of the
licensed premises during supervised tours and private events. The retail
portion of the licensed premises shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) square
feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Patrons under twenty one (21) years of age shall be allowed on the
premises when accompanied by a person twenty one (21) years of age or older;
except, however, classes and seminars on alcoholic related subjects shall only
be open to patrons twenty one (21) years and older. (Ord. 17-O-3, 1-17-2017)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The initial fee for this Class L license class and the annual fee
for this Class L license class shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018; amd. Ord. 22-O-04, 4-19-2022)
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Class M License: Craft Distiller License.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Class M licenses shall be for a craft distiller holding a craft
distiller license issued by the state of Illinois. This license shall
authorize:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The onsite production and storage of alcohol in quantities not to
exceed the one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons per year as imposed by the
state of Illinois under 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The sale of such site distilled alcohol to persons of at least
twenty one (21) years of age for consumption on and off premises; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â On site sampling of such alcohol.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The number of Class M licenses allowed shall be zero.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Sales or sampling of alcoholic beverages manufactured outside the
licensed facility are prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for a Class M licensee to sell a container of
alcohol for off premises consumption unless the container is greater than or
equal to three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 ml) in volume and is
properly sealed for transport in a motor vehicle without violation of law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Class M licensees may, during authorized hours of business and to
the extent permitted by the Illinois Liquor Control Act, as amended, sell their
alcoholic products manufactured on the licensed premises at retail for off and
on premises consumption. In addition, Class M licensees may offer samples of
the alcohol permitted to be produced and sold pursuant to this classification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Class M licensees must have at least one BASSET certified site
manager on premises. All servers and persons selling any form of alcoholic
beverages shall be BASSET certified.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for the holder of a Class M license to provide
a sample or sell any alcohol between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's day, Thanksgiving and the
day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Every Class M licensee must have a valid craft distiller license
from the state of Illinois.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â A Class M licensee shall comply with the applicable regulations of
the state of Illinois, as amended and with the regulations of this chapter, as
amended.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â The initial fee for a Class M license shall be three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00). The annual fee for a Class M license shall be one thousand
eight hundred and seventy five dollars ($1,875.00). (Ord. 18-O-06, 4-17-2018)
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Class N License: Craft Distilleries/Breweries.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Class N licenses shall be for an establishment that wishes to
distill alcohol, brew beer, and produce wine. The Distiller/Brewer/Winemaker
must hold both a craft distiller license and a Class 1 brewer license issued by
the state of Illinois. This license shall authorize:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The onsite production and storage of alcohol in quantities not to
exceed the one hundred thousand (100,000) gallons per year as imposed by the
state of Illinois under 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The onsite production and storage of beer in quantities not to
exceed the nine hundred and thirty thousand (930,000) gallons per year as
imposed by the state of Illinois under 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The sale of such site distilled alcohol and brewed beer to
persons of at least twenty one (21) years of age for consumption on and off
premises; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â On site sampling of such alcohol and beer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Class N Licensees are not permitted to self-distribute brewed beer
pursuant to 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-12-18a.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The number of Class N licenses allowed shall be one.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Sales or sampling of alcoholic beverages manufactured outside the
licensed facility are prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for a Class N licensee to sell a container of
alcohol for off premises consumption unless the container is greater than or
equal to three hundred seventy five milliliters (375 ml) in volume and is
properly sealed for transport in a motor vehicle without violation of law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Class N licensees may, during authorized hours of business and to
the extent permitted by the Illinois Liquor Control Act, as amended, sell their
alcoholic products manufactured on the licensed premises at retail for off and
on premises consumption. In addition, Class N licensees may offer samples of
the alcohol permitted to be produced and sold pursuant to this classification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Class N licensees must have at least one BASSET certified site
manager on premises. All servers and persons selling any form of alcoholic
beverages shall be BASSET certified.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for the holder of a Class N license to provide
a sample or sell any alcohol between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. Monday through Thursday, or three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. Friday through Sunday, New Year's day, Thanksgiving and the
day after St. Patrick's Day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Every Class N licensee must have a valid craft distiller license and
class 1 brewer license from the state of Illinois.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â A Class N licensee shall comply with the applicable regulations of
the state of Illinois, as amended and with the regulations of this chapter, as
amended.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â The initial fee for a Class N license shall be three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00). The annual fee for a Class N license shall be one thousand
eight hundred seventy five dollars ($1,875.00). (Ord. 18-O-6, 4-17-2018; Ord.
24-O-08, 7-16-2024)
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Class O License: BYOB License:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Class O licenses shall authorize retail establishments such as art
galleries and music stores and other similar uses as determined by the local
liquor control commissioner to allow the complimentary service and consumption
of beer and wine by its patrons that: a) is brought to the premises of the
business by the patron (BYOB); and/or b) is served by the business as a
compliment to the patron's purchase of goods or services offered by the
business (complimentary service).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Service may be only to customers of the shop or facility and only
for consumption of the drink on the premises while the customer is waiting for
or receiving customary services from art galleries and music stores as
determined by the local liquor control commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Advertising the availability of alcohol may not be visible from the
exterior of the licensed premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The complimentary service or consumption of beer or wine at the
licensed premises is limited to not more than three (3) twelve-ounce servings
of beer or three (3) five-ounce servings of wine by a patron during any single
calendar day, regardless of whether the beverage is provided by the licensee or
brought to the licensed premises by the patron. No more than one (1) bottle of
wine, sparkling wine, or champagne may be brought to the premises by each
patron. No alcoholic liquor beverages other than wine, sparkling wine,
champagne or beer are permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for the licensee, its agents, and employees to
permit any patron to leave the licensed premises with an open container of wine
or beer regardless of whether the container is provided by the licensee or
brought to the licensed premises by the patron, except as otherwise allowed by
section 6-33 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/6-33.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for the holder of a Class O license to allow
the consumption of alcohol earlier than nine oâclock (9:00) A.M. or after ten
oâclock (10:00) P.M.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â All employees of the licensee serving alcohol must have successfully
completed online BASSET certification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A Class O licensee shall comply with the applicable regulations of
the state of Illinois, as amended and with the regulations of this chapter, as
amended.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The initial fee for a Class O license shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). The annual fee for a Class O license shall be one thousand eight
hundred and seventy five dollars ($1,875.00). (Ord. 22-O-13, 9-20-2022)
4-1-8: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Exception: Except as otherwise provided herein, all fees shall be paid
at the time of application.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Payment Due Date: For renewal licenses, payment shall be on or before
July 1 of each calendar year.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Renewal Fee: Renewal fees for licenses may be paid at the option of the
liquor license holder in two (2) installments as follows: Fifty percent (50%)
of such renewal fee (plus a service fee of $50.00) to be paid on or before June
30 of each calendar year, and a second installment being fifty percent (50%) of
such renewal fee (plus a service fee of $50.00) to be paid on or before
December 31, immediately following.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Late Fee: A one hundred dollar ($100.00) late fee shall be charged for
any renewal application or fee submitted after the due date.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Duration Of Licenses: All licenses shall be for a period beginning upon
the date of issuance and ending on June 30 next following.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Adjustment Of Fees: The fees provided herein may be adjusted as
follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â There shall be no proration of any license fee except as provided
herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The fee for the first renewal following the initial license year
shall be prorated by multiplying the renewal license fee by that percentage of
the initial license year remaining after issuance of the initial license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No rebate shall be made to any licensee who terminates its business
for whatever reason during a license year. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A current license holder that seeks to convert an existing license
to a different license classification shall pay an initial license fee for the
new license equal to the difference between the initial license fee for the new
license and the renewal fee paid for the current license, except a current
license holder that seeks to convert from a Class A license to a Class B
license shall pay a fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 16-O-51, 11-
15-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The license fee for a Class K (special event) license shall be as
provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. However, the fee may be waived or reduced by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016; amd. Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-
2018)
4-1-9: RESERVED:
(Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-10: TERM OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION:
Any license hereunder shall be a purely personal privilege, good for the term
for which it is issued, but in no event to exceed one year, unless sooner
revoked as provided by law or ordinance, and shall not constitute property. All
licenses shall expire uniformly on June 30 in each year, unless sooner revoked,
abandoned or surrendered, and regardless of the date on which the license was
issued. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-11: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any licensee may apply for renewal of the license at the expiration
thereof; provided, that the licensee is then qualified to receive a license and
the premises of the renewal license is suitable for such purpose. Each licensee
applying for renewal shall provide such information as is required by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner for consideration of such renewal. The renewal
privilege herein shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any
case prevent the city council from decreasing the number of licenses to be
issued within its jurisdiction.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All applications for renewal of the annual license shall be accompanied
by the required payment and submitted to the city clerk not later than June 30
of each year. Any renewal application or payment received after the date due
shall be accompanied by a late filing fee.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The local liquor control commissioner may authorize the use of shorter
forms for license renewal to indicate only any changes in information submitted
from the previous year. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-12: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; SIGNATURE; LOCATION AND PREMISES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The license shall be signed by the mayor, as local liquor control
commissioner.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All licenses issued by the local liquor control commission shall state
thereon the name of the licensee, the address and description of the premises
for which the license is granted and the dates of its issuance and expiration.
Licenses issued hereunder apply only to the name and the premises described in
the application and in the license issued thereon, and only one location shall
be described in each license. No change of location shall be permitted unless
the proposed new location is proper under the laws of the state and the
ordinances of the city and is approved by the local liquor control commission
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No license shall be issued to sell alcoholic liquor at retail in any
dwelling house, flat, apartment or in any premises directly accessible to
dwelling or lodging rooms for the public. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-13: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A change in ownership requiring the payment of a license fee for the
first year of operation shall be required whenever any license is assigned,
sold, loaned, transferred, used as collateral or otherwise encumbered. In
addition, no license or permit may be assigned, sold, loaned, transferred, used
as collateral or otherwise encumbered unless prior approval of the local liquor
control commissioner is given pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The
following transactions are hereby declared to be exempted:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An assignment, sale, loan, transfer, or change in partners of or to
an immediate family member; or if a corporation, a change in any officer,
manager, or director of the corporation, or change of any stockholder of the
corporation to an immediate family member. As used herein "an immediate family
member" is defined as a spouse or child; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A change in partners wherein one or more partners withdraw and
existing partners increase their ownership; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A stockholder or stockholders increasing their ownership of stock by
obtaining the stock of a current stockholder or stockholders.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All corporations, partnerships, copartnerships, limited liability
companies, or other nonnatural persons licensed by the city must report to the
local liquor control commissioner and receive prior approval of all internal
changes in the corporation, partnership, copartnership, limited liability
company or other nonnatural person pertaining to change of name, officers,
directors, managers, and stockholders (regardless of the percentage of interest
therein). Such notification shall include the name, home address, sex, date of
birth, social security number, position and percentage of ownership (if any)
not previously reputed or disclosed. In the event that the ownership of the
licensee corporation, partnership, copartnership, limited liability company or
other nonnatural person licensed by the commission is by another or other such
corporations, partnerships, copartnerships, limited liability companies, or
other nonnatural persons, such licensee must report the name, home address,
sex, date of birth, social security number, position and percentage of
ownership (if any) of any individual holding any ownership interest in the
corporation, partnership, copartnership, limited liability company or other
nonnatural person. Such disclosure shall also apply to all limited
partnerships, including both the general and limited partners. No such internal
changes shall be permitted until such reporting is made, and approval granted,
in writing, by the local liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-14: POSTING LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every licensee shall cause his license issued under the provisions of this
chapter to be framed and hung in plain view, in a conspicuous place in the
licensed premises. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-15: RESERVED:
(Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-16: SAFETY AND SANITARY REGULATIONS:
No premises shall be licensed for the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail, nor
shall any licensee sell alcoholic liquor at retail, unless the premises conform
with the following regulations:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Light: All rooms shall be adequately lighted so that all parts of the
premises may be inspected readily.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Construction: The walls and ceilings shall be of a smooth, hard
material and shall be kept clean and sanitary and in good repair.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Rubbish: The premises shall be kept free from the accumulation of
rubbish, garbage or any other decomposing or odorous substances.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Glasses: All drinking glasses shall be thoroughly cleaned and
effectively subjected to any approved bactericidal process after each usage.
Drying cloths shall be clean and shall be used for no other purpose.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compliance With Public Health Directives And Executive Orders: All
licensed premises shall comply with any and all applicable health and safety
rules or regulations issued by a local or state department of health, or by
executive order of the Illinois Governor, or by executive order of the Mayor,
including but not limited to requiring customers on the licensed premises to
comply with such rules or regulations. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016; amd. Ord. 20-O-
18, 8-18-2020)
4-1-17: EMPLOYEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Medical Examinations Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
be employed in or about the premises used for retail sale of alcoholic liquor
or for such person to serve alcoholic liquor unless the owner of such place of
business shall have in his possession a certificate of a duly licensed
physician under the laws of the state of Illinois certifying that such person
is not afflicted with or a carrier of any contagious, infectious or sexually
transmitted disease. Such certificate shall be obtained within thirty (30) days
after May 1 of each year by every person serving or intending to serve
alcoholic liquor. In the event of employment subsequent to that time, such
certificate shall be obtained no later than three (3) days after the beginning
of such employment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Age: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to engage or employ or
permit any person to serve or dispense alcoholic liquor upon licensed premises
who is under the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-18: DUTIES AND RESTRICTIONS OF LICENSEE AND EMPLOYEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Identification Check:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of every licensee, bartender, waiter, waitress
or any other employee of a licensee to determine whether or not a person is
prohibited by reason of age by any law or ordinance from:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Possessing or purchasing or otherwise obtaining, receiving or
consuming alcoholic liquor; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Sitting or standing at a bar in any licensed premises or
loitering therein; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Entering or remaining in any premises to which a class E liquor
license has been issued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The age shall only be ascertained from a valid driver's license,
Illinois identification card, military identification card, or other
identification card issued by federal, state or local government agency. In the
event the identification was not issued by an agency of the state of Illinois,
the licensee shall institute any other procedures which are necessary to ensure
that the person is of appropriate age, which procedure, at a minimum, shall
include the presentation of a second identification card.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Aid Police: It shall be the duty of every person in premises licensed
under this chapter, when called upon by the chief of police or by any other
member of the department, to assist him in the execution of his police duties
in the premises or public ways adjacent thereto.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Conduct Of Patrons: It shall be the duty of every person in a premises
licensed under this chapter to refrain from loud and boisterous noises and from
the use of profane language. Anyone who violates this duty shall not be
permitted to remain in the premises and shall promptly leave when requested.
Anyone who violates the provisions of this subsection shall be deemed guilty of
disorderly conduct.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notices Posted: It shall be the duty of every licensee to permanently
post in a prominently visible place at all entrances and exits of the premises
a notice to all persons regarding various laws pertaining to entry upon the
licensed premises or to the possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Said notices for posting may be provided by the chief of police or local liquor
control commissioner.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Report Various Incidents: It shall be the duty of every licensee,
bartender, waiter, waitress, or any other employee of any licensee under this
chapter to report to the police department any and all incidents of disorderly
conduct or of any and all criminal violations or violations of this chapter
which take place within or upon the premises for which a liquor license has
been issued pursuant to this chapter immediately upon observance or
notification of same. The licensee, bartender, waiter, waitress, or other
employee shall identify himself to the police department and state the nature
of the incident. Failure to report to the police department as provided herein
shall be a violation of this chapter.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Gambling And Narcotics Violations: It shall be unlawful for a licensee
under this chapter to permit, or to fail to prevent when reasonably apparent,
any gambling as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes. It shall be unlawful
for a licensee to permit, fail to prevent and fail to notify the police
department when reasonably apparent of any use or sale of a narcotic or
controlled substance as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes. It shall be
unlawful for a licensee to permit or fail to prevent any other violations of
state law or ordinances of the city occurring in or upon the licensed premises.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Compliance With Ordinances: It shall be the duty of every licensee,
bartender, waiter, waitress, or any other employee of any licensee under this
chapter to comply in all respects with any and all ordinances then in effect in
the city, and all other applicable governmental regulations. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-
1-2016)
4-1-19: PROHIBITED ENTRY, SALES, POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION AND ACTIVITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person to whom the sale, possession or consumption of alcoholic
liquor is prohibited by reason of age by any law or ordinance may sit or stand
at a bar in any licensed premises or loiter therein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to misrepresent his age for the
purpose of purchasing, obtaining, possessing or consuming alcoholic liquor. It
shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, possession or consumption of
alcoholic liquor is prohibited by reason of age by law or ordinance to attempt
to purchase, obtain, possess, or drink alcoholic liquor in any licensed
premises.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No person to whom the sale, possession or consumption of alcoholic
liquor is prohibited by reason of age by any law or ordinance shall enter or
remain within any premises to which a class E liquor license has been issued,
unless said person, at all times, is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian
to whom the said possession or consumption of alcoholic liquor is not
prohibited by reason of age by any law or ordinance.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The possession and dispensing or consumption by a person under twenty
one (21) years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption by a person under twenty one (21) years
of age under the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent or
those persons standing in loco parentis of such person under twenty one (21)
years of age in the privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this section.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â No person shall possess any alcoholic liquor in or upon a public way,
other public place, public place of business, restaurant, or store within the
city, unless the alcoholic liquor is in its original container with the seal
unbroken, or unless the possession is on the premises of an establishment with
an appropriate liquor license. For the purpose of this subsection, a public way
or other public place shall include, but is not limited to, any street,
highway, alley, sidewalk, public parking lot, public area or public park.
Notwithstanding the above, the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
the designated premises for which a special event license has been issued; or
block parties for which the city clerk has issued a permit.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â No owner, manager or employee of a public place of business,
restaurant, or store within the city shall allow any person to possess any
alcoholic liquor in or upon the public place of business, restaurant, or store,
unless the alcoholic liquor is in its original container with the seal
unbroken, or unless the possession is on the premises of an establishment
holding an appropriate liquor license.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No licensee or bartender, waitress, waiter or employee of such
licensee, or other person in a licensed premises, shall allow any person to
possess or have on or about his person on any street, highway, alley, sidewalk,
or parking lot under the control of the licensee any alcoholic liquor except in
the original package and with the seal unbroken.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit drinks or to make any
other solicitation in a licensed premises. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-20: PACKAGING RESTRICTIONS:
As used in this chapter, the phrase "in the original package as the
manufacturer intended for sale" shall be strictly construed to prohibit any
licensee from altering the packaging of any items of alcoholic liquor in any
form inconsistent with the manufacturer's packaging as was intended for resale
at the retail level. The licensee shall be prohibited from removing any
packaging which creates a unit which was intended for resale at the retail
level (i.e., a single can of beer from a 6-pack). The sale or display of any
item not permitted under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-21: IMPROPER CONDUCT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The following kinds of conduct, whether actual or simulated, are
prohibited in the city within or upon any premises licensed to sell alcoholic
liquor:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any act of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality,
oral copulation, or flagellation; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any sexual act prohibited by law; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any touching, caressing or fondling of or on any person's breast,
buttocks, anus or genitals; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any exposure to public view or public display of any part of any
person's pubic hair, anus, or genitals; or any exposure to public view or
public display of any part of the female breast below the top of the areola
which is not covered by a fully opaque covering or clothing; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any entertainment or activity which involves the wetting of the
upper torso of a female or pelvic area of a male or female; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The display of any film, video, electronic reproduction, or picture
depicting any act prohibited by subsections A1 through A5 of this section; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Wrestling, mud wrestling, live fashion shows of lingerie or swimwear
or any sexually suggestive clothing or items; any displays or live shows of
lingerie or swimwear or any sexually suggestive clothing or items; wet T-shirt
contests; any "ladies night" promotion or performances advertised or limited to
audiences of one sex; and all other similar events of a like nature; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Competitions, displays, exhibitions or the like of any type for
which prizes are awarded or given, unless a permit therefor has first been
issued by the local liquor control commissioner; however, notwithstanding the
above, no permit shall be required for bowling leagues or bowling competitions,
displays or exhibitions for which prizes are awarded or given; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Any adult uses, including any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Sale, loaning or providing any books, magazines, or films on
premises by use of motion picture, video or other devices or any other coin
operated means, and other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized
by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to any sexual
activities prohibited in this section, or any specified anatomical areas
prohibited in this section; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The presentation of any material having as a dominant theme
material distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities prohibited in this section, or any
specified anatomical areas prohibited in this section; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Topless dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, any
entertainers who display any specified anatomical areas prohibited in this
section or entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct, perform
in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of
any patron or person present or entertainers who engage in, or engage in
explicit simulation of, any sexual activities prohibited in this section; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â The permitting by any licensee, or any employee, officer, director
or agent of any licensee, of any person to remain within or upon a licensed
premises when such person is in violation of any of the provisions of this
section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Such conduct shall be prohibited if the establishment is open for
business or has patrons present, and:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The conduct is sponsored, promoted or in any way facilitated by the
licensed premises or any of its employees, officers, directors or agents; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The conduct takes place in any way such that it may reasonably be
expected to be viewed by others.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â 1. Application for a permit for an event in which a permit is required
when a prize or prizes are awarded shall be made by filing a detailed
description of the event and all prizes, together with all relevant details,
with the local liquor control commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The application shall be accompanied with a twenty five dollar
($25.00) filing fee and shall be filed at least thirty (30) days prior to the
date a determination is desired.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The application shall be supplemented with all reasonable additional
information as may be requested from time to time by the local liquor control
commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â In the event that the local liquor control commissioner denies the
application, the applicant may appeal the same to the Illinois state liquor
control commission. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-22: RESPONSIBILITIES OF LICENSEE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The licensee shall at all times be personally responsible for the
proper operation of the business and the acts of his bartenders, waitresses,
waiters and employees serving alcoholic liquor in the course of their
employment, including the compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
the observation of all laws and regulations applicable thereto. The licensee is
charged with the duty of selecting bartenders, waiters, waitresses and
employees to sell alcoholic liquor who will comply with all of the provisions
of the liquor control act and the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or
other agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act
of such employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punished
in the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-23: COMPLIANCE WITH TAX LAWS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of each licensee to fully comply with the
provisions of this section and all aspects of all applicable tax laws,
including, but not limited to, the retailers' occupation tax act 1 . It shall
be the duty of each licensee to submit to the local liquor control commissioner
evidence of such compliance, along with such authorizations as the local liquor
control commissioner may be required to independently investigate and determine
that the licensee is in compliance. Such evidence of compliance shall include
copies of all returns submitted by the licensee evidencing tax compliance. In
addition to other grounds specified in this chapter, the local liquor control
commissioner may refuse the issuance or renewal of a retailer's license or
suspend or revoke such license for any of the following violations of the
retailers' occupation tax act:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Failure to make a tax return.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The filing of a fraudulent return.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Failure to pay all or any part of any tax or penalty finally
determined to be due.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Failure to keep books or records.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Failure to secure and display a certificate or subcertificates of
registration.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Wilful violation of any rule or regulation relating to the
administration enforcement of tax liability.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of each licensee to maintain in good working order
a cash register for the purpose of maintaining a record of all sales at the
premises. Further, it is specifically required that each transaction be
recorded or registered by use of said register. Such recording or registration
of each transaction shall be performed contemporaneously with the transaction
and shall not be delayed or deferred. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq. See title 3, chapter 3 of this code.
4-1-24: BASSET TRAINING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No license shall be issued unless the applicant complies with the
requirements of this subsection. All license applications (original or renewal)
for liquor licenses shall be accompanied with proof of completion of a state
certified beverage alcohol sellers and servers educational training (BASSET)
program, as per 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-12(a)(2), 5/3-12(a)(11), and
5/6-27 and regulated under the Illinois administrative code. This chapter shall
require the following individuals, employed with or without compensation, to
complete a BASSET program:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All persons with establishments holding a catering license, and
all owners and/or their agents or management personnel acting on behalf of the
owner. However, this chapter shall not require owners who are not usually on
the premises performing duties directly involved with customer contact to be so
trained.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â All persons in an establishment holding a license who are engaged
in the pouring, mixing or dispensing of alcohol, and any person who is engaged
for the checking of identification for the entry into and/or purchase of
alcoholic beverages in any establishment. Further, the local liquor control
commissioner may require any waitstaff to be trained.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â All persons in an establishment holding a license who are engaged
in the pouring, mixing, or dispensing of alcohol.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â All persons in an establishment holding a license who are engaged
in the selling of alcohol for off premises consumption by customers, and any
person who is engaged for the checking of identification for the entry into
and/or purchases of alcoholic beverages in any licensed liquor establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In all licensed premises, during all hours when alcoholic beverages
may be purchased, at least one person who has completed BASSET training shall
be required to be on the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A "state certified BASSET training program" shall be defined as a
BASSET program licensed by the state of Illinois department of alcoholism and
substance abuse (DASA) as required by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-12(a)
(2), 5/3-12(a)(11), and 5/6-27 and regulated under the Illinois administrative
code. Providers of BASSET training shall be required to provide to each
participant a photo identification card as proof of participation and have on
file with the city clerk all licenses and certificates to prove current
qualifications.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any new employee, manager, or agent requiring BASSET training shall,
within forty five (45) days from the beginning of his or her employment with
the licensee, complete a BASSET program and shall, until completion of the
BASSET program, work under the supervision of a person who has completed the
BASSET training. Provided, that prior to the new employee, manager or agent
commencement of duties, the licensee shall provide written notification to the
local liquor control commissioner of the name of the employee, his position,
and the starting date of employment, which shall be kept on file by the local
liquor control commissioner. This exemption for any new employee, manager, or
agent shall not apply unless said written notification has been given to and
received by the local liquor control commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A photocopy of the certificate of completion for all employees,
managers, or agents required by this chapter to have BASSET training shall be
maintained by the establishment in a manner that will allow inspection upon
demand by any agent of the local liquor control commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â In addition to other penalties which may be imposed under this
chapter, if a licensee is found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
said licensee and his managers, employees, or agents may be required to again
complete the BASSET training program.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â From time to time, it may be necessary and advisable for licensees
and their employees to be apprised of the requirements of this chapter and
other laws affecting the conduct of retail businesses operating liquor
businesses. The local liquor control commissioner, at his discretion, is hereby
authorized to require the attendance of owners, managers, agents, bartenders,
waitresses, and all employees of licensed premises at a training seminar or
similar instructional program of not more than four (4) hours in length, to be
presented by the local liquor control commissioner, or his agent. The local
liquor control commissioner is further authorized to promulgate rules and
regulations and issue certificates of attendance. Provided, that no individual
shall be required to attend more frequently than once per year. Failure to
attend, when required by the local liquor control commissioner, shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Waiver Of Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â New Licensees: The local liquor control commissioner may issue a
temporary waiver of the BASSET requirement for a period not to exceed forty
five (45) days for all new applicants for a license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Employees Of Licensees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The local liquor control commissioner may issue a temporary
waiver of the BASSET requirement to any employee of a licensee otherwise
required to attend BASSET training, provided the licensee has satisfied the
following conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The licensee has trained sufficient personnel to ensure that
at least one BASSET trained employee, owner or manager is on duty and within
the premises at all times of operation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The licensee files a written petition with the local liquor
control commissioner setting forth the names of the employees, managers, owners
or agents that were unable to obtain the required training, their position, and
proof of enrollment with a qualified BASSET provider to assure completion of
the BASSET program at the earliest possible opportunity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The petition shall set forth in detail good cause for the
failure of the employee, manager, owner or agent to comply with the training
requirements in a timely manner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The petition shall set forth the date of employment of the
individual for whom the temporary waiver is sought. Further, the licensee shall
provide proof of the date of employment with the petition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â The employee, owner or agent for which the temporary waiver
is granted shall carry on his person written proof of said waiver at all times
that he is engaged in his duties and shall exhibit same on request to any city
enforcement personnel.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Any employee, owner, manager, or agent for which the
temporary waiver is granted shall, until completion of the BASSET program, work
under the supervision of a person who has completed the BASSET training.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â The temporary waivers issued to any licensee shall not exceed
the number of BASSET trained employees, owners or agents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â This exemption for a temporary waiver of the BASSET training
requirements for any existing employee, manager, or agent shall not apply
unless said written notification has been given to, received and approved by
the local liquor control commissioner. Nothing herein shall be construed to
create any right or expectation for the granting of a temporary waiver, which
waiver shall be granted in the sole discretion of the local liquor control
commissioner. The local liquor control commissioner may consider any relevant
information in the granting or denial of any temporary waiver. (Ord. 16-O-12,
3-1-2016)
4-1-25: INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Records: The local liquor control commissioner shall have the right to
examine or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license
or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or
suspension has been served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to
be examined the books and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear
testimony and to take proof for his information in the performance of his
duties and, for such purpose, to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in
any part of the state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information
desired by the local liquor control commissioner under this subsection, he may
authorize his agent to act on his behalf, as provided by statute.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Premises: It shall be the duty of every licensee to permit inspection
to be made by any law enforcing officer of the city. The acceptance of a
license under the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a license to the
law enforcing officers of the city to enter at any time upon the premises
licensed under the provisions of this chapter to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter, or any rule or regulation adopted by the commission
or any provision of the liquor control act adopted by the general assembly, has
been or is being violated. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-26: APPEALS:
Pursuant to 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-9, all reviews or appeals of the
actions or orders of the local liquor control commissioner shall be made by the
Illinois liquor commission on the official record made before the local liquor
control commissioner. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
4-1-27: SCOPE; VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Scope; Revocation Of License: The regulations imposed by this chapter
shall be applicable to each licensee, bartender, waiter, waitress, associates,
representatives, agents or employees engaged in serving or selling alcoholic
liquor at retail. Whenever any bartender, waiter, waitress or other employee
employed in a licensed establishment shall be found to be in violation of this
chapter while engaged in the course of his or her employment, or while upon the
premises described in the license, such violation shall constitute cause for
revocation of the license. In the event of a revocation, the licensee fee shall
be forfeited.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Penalty: Whoever violates any provisions of this chapter shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 16-O-12, 3-1-2016)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
ARTICLE A. PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-2A-1: License Required
4-2A-2: Application For License
4-2A-3: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-2A-4: License Fee
4-2A-5: Nontransferability Of License; Term
4-2A-6: Soliciting For Publications And Donations
4-2A-7: Restrictions
4-2A-8: Grounds For Revocation Of License
4-2A-9: Penalty
4-2A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, or for any agent, servant or employee of
any person, to engage in, carry on or conduct the business of a peddler or
solicitor within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a
license so to do, duly issued under the provisions of this article. (Ord. 85-O-
1, 1-18-1985; amd. Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
4-2A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applicants for a license under this article must file with the city clerk a
sworn application, in writing, on a form to be furnished by the city clerk
which shall give the following information: (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Name and description of the applicant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Address.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A brief description of the nature of the business.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the relationship.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â If a vehicle is used, a description of the same, together with the
license number or other means of identification, and the number of the driver's
licenses and the name and title of the official issuing the same.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â A photograph of the applicant, taken within sixty (60) days immediately
prior to the date of filing the application, which picture shall show the head
and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinct manner.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The fingerprints of the applicant and his references as to character
and business responsibility, which will enable an investigator to evaluate his
character and business responsibility. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime or violation of any municipal ordinance, except traffic violations,
the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
(Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The applicant shall file with his application a statement of a
reputable physician of the city, dated not more than three (3) days prior to
the submission of the application, certifying the applicant to be free of
infectious, contagious and communicable diseases. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985)
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â At the time of the filing of the application, a fee as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code shall be paid to the city clerk to cover the cost of
investigation. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985; amd. 2009 Code)
4-2A-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Investigation: Upon receipt of the application, the chief of police
shall make an investigation of the applicant's business responsibility and
moral character for the protection of the public welfare and safety. (Ord. 85-
O-1, 1-18-1985)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Denial Of License; Appeals: If the applicant's character and business
responsibility are not good, the chief of police shall endorse on such
application his disapproval and his reasons therefor and return the same to the
city clerk who shall notify the applicant that his application is disapproved,
and no license will be issued. Any person aggrieved by the action of the chief
of police or the city clerk in the denial of the application for license shall
have the right to appeal to the city council at the next council meeting after
the grievance occurs.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Issuance Of License: If, as a result of such investigation, the
character and business responsibility of the applicant is found to be good, the
chief of police shall endorse on the application his approval and execute a
license addressed to the applicant authorizing the vocation applied for and
return the license, along with the application, to the city clerk who shall,
upon the payment of the license fee, if any, issue the license. The city clerk
shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985;
amd. 2009 Code)
4-2A-4: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for engaging in, carrying on or conducting business as a
peddler or solicitor shall be the sum as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code, payable in advance for each day such business shall
continue. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985; amd. Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-1992; 2009 Code)
4-2A-5: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; TERM:
The license shall not be transferable, and when the license is issued, the
applicant shall then be permitted to engage in his business in the city for
such time as provided for in his license. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985)
4-2A-6: SOLICITING FOR PUBLICATIONS AND DONATIONS:
Before anyone peddles or solicits for subscriptions to newspapers, pamphlets,
magazines, periodicals or books, or solicits for donations in the city, he or
she shall comply with section
4-2A-2 of this article. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985)
4-2A-7: RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Hours; Exhibition Of License: No peddling or solicitation shall be
permitted after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any day. Every holder of such a
license shall exhibit the same at the request of any police officer or any
citizen of the city. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibited Locations: Peddlers and solicitors shall not conduct their
vocation upon the streets, sidewalks, parks, parkways, or alleys in the city
unless otherwise provided in the license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hawking; Sound Amplification:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No peddler or solicitor, nor any person in his behalf, shall shout,
use an amplifier, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any sound amplifying system
upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the city.
(Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985; amd. Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Hawking in the city is prohibited. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985)
4-2A-8: GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Licenses issued under the provisions of this article may be revoked by the
mayor for the following causes: (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-1985; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Misrepresentation or false statement contained in the application for
license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of carrying on
the business.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any violation of this article.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or constitute a menace to the health, general
welfare, or safety of the public. Whenever the mayor makes such a revocation,
he shall specify the causes therefor, in writing, and file the same, in
duplicate, with the city clerk. A duplicate copy of the revocation shall be
served upon the licensee by a police officer of the city. (Ord. 85-O-1, 1-18-
1985)
4-2A-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
ARTICLE B. TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Definitions
4-2B-2: License Or Waiver Required
4-2B-3: Application For License; Fee
4-2B-4: Bond Requirements
4-2B-5: Expiration Of License
4-2B-6: Failure To Obtain License; Confiscation And Sale Of Property
4-2B-7: Prima Facie Evidence
4-2B-8: Penalty
4-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the city who does not maintain in the city an established
office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center or residence
from which such business is conducted. However, this article does not apply to
any person who delivers tangible personal property within the city who is
fulfilling an order for such property which was solicited or placed by mail or
other means. This article does not apply to any person holding a valid license
issued by a county or municipality to engage in retail sales.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, firm, association or
other entity.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of
goods, wares or merchandise in the city and who, for the purpose of conducting
such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of any kind, or
vacant lot. However, this article does not apply to any person selling goods,
wares or merchandise which are raised, produced or manufactured by him; to any
person selling vegetables, fruit or perishable farm products at an established
city or village market; to any person operating a store or refreshment stand at
a resort; to any person operating a stand or booth on or adjacent to property
owned by him or upon which he resides; or to any person operating a stand or
booth at a state or county fair. This article does not apply to any person
holding a valid license issued by a county or municipality to engage in retail
sales. (Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
4-2B-2: LICENSE OR WAIVER REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to do business in the city as a transient merchant or
itinerant vendor without having either: a) first secured a license therefor
from the police department of the city which is hereby declared to be the
licensing agency for transient merchants and itinerant vendors; or b) having
obtained a waiver of the licensing requirement by a motion passed by the city
council. (Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
4-2B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The license application shall include the applicant's name, permanent
business address, which must include a street address, residence address of the
principal, and if the applicant is a corporation, the residence addresses of
its officers, the location at which the applicant intends to do business, the
nature of the business the applicant intends to conduct, a copy of the
applicant's certificate of registration under the retailers' occupation tax act
1 , a complete inventory of the goods the applicant intends to offer for sale,
and a list of all licenses to conduct business as a transient merchant or an
itinerant vendor obtained by the applicant in the city in the twelve (12)
months preceding the date of filing the application. (Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The police department shall collect a license application fee as
provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code from any person wishing to conduct business as either a
transient merchant or itinerant vendor under this article. (Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-
1992; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.; see title 3, chapter 3 of this code.
4-2B-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The applicant shall file with the police department a surety bond or a
cash deposit. The amount of the bond or cash deposit shall be equal to fifty
percent (50%) of the wholesale value of the merchandise that the applicant
intends to offer for sale; however, the amount of the bond or cash deposit
shall not be less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The police department shall transfer the deposit or bond to the
attorney general of Illinois within the fourteen (14) days after the applicant
ceases to do business in the city, and the attorney general shall hold such
deposit or bond for two (2) years for the benefit of any person who suffers
loss or damages as a result of the purchase of merchandise from said person
licensed under this article or as a result of the negligent or intentionally
tortious act of the person licensed under this article. The attorney general
shall pay any portion of the bond or deposit to any person in accordance with
the order of the court without making an independent finding as to the amount
of the bond or deposit that is payable to that person. Any balance of said
deposit held by the attorney general two (2) years after the expiration of a
license of a person under this article shall be refunded to the person. (Ord.
92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
4-2B-5: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
A license under this article shall expire on December 31 of the year it was
issued. (Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
4-2B-6: FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE; CONFISCATION AND SALE OF PROPERTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If any person makes retail sales as a transient merchant or itinerant
vendor without having obtained a license under this article, the police
department may hold the inventory, truck or other personal property of the
person until he obtains a license to conduct business as a transient merchant
or itinerant vendor.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the property has been held by the police department for more than
sixty (60) days, and the person whose property is being held has not obtained a
license under this article, the police department may petition the circuit
court for an order for the sale of the property being held.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If the court finds that the person whose property is held has not
obtained a license under this article, the court may order the police
department to sell the property.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Proceeds of the sale of the property, less reimbursement to the police
department for the reasonable expenses of storage and sale of the property,
shall be deposited in the treasury of the city. (Ord. 92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
4-2B-7: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is a transient merchant or
itinerant vendor under this article if the person does not transact business
from a fixed location or if the person does not own or lease for a term of at
least six (6) months the property from which the business is conducted. (Ord.
92-O-20, 5-5-1992)
4-2B-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ARCADES; AMUSEMENT, VENDING AND MUSICAL DEVICES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Operator License Requirements
4-3-3: Device License Requirements
4-3-4: Arcade License Requirements
4-3-5: Additional Fees For Failure To Obtain Licenses
4-3-6: Nontransferability Of Operator And Arcade Licenses
4-3-7: License Fee Payments; Renewal Of Licenses
4-3-8: Display Of License
4-3-9: Number Of Pool And Billiard Tables
4-3-10: Misrepresentation By Applicant
4-3-11: Minors And Hours Of Operation
4-3-12: Gambling Devices Prohibited
4-3-13: General Rules And Regulations
4-3-14: Inspections
4-3-15: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-3-16: Disposition Of Funds; Records Kept
4-3-17: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any electronic or mechanical device which, upon the insertion
of a coin, token or slug, operates or may be operated as a game or contest of
skill or amusement of any kind or description, and shall include, but not be
limited to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any device which, in its operation, shoots or propels an electrical
light, ray or impulse from a device operated by the player to a target which
contains a receiving photoelectric cell.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any mechanical bowling or shuffleboard device which is designed to be
played for amusement and which, in operation, delivers to the player one or
more balls or other projectiles which must be rolled from or impelled by the
hand of the player or by a mechanical device into a cup or receptacle or over
scoring devices.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any video booth or video game, being a game using electronic or
computer technology and a type of video display.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Pinball machines or marble machines.
BOWLING ALLEY PREMISES: A premises at which bowling is made available to the
public, and contains no less than ten (10) bowling lanes with automatic pin
setting devices permitting the public to participate in the sport of bowling.
CITY: The city of Highwood.
COUNCIL, MAYOR AND CLERK: Shall mean, respectively, the city council, mayor and
city clerk of the city.
GAMBLING DEVICE: Any incidental mechanical grab devices and all other types of
games or devices which simulate games of chance and/or card games. "Gambling
devices" shall also include any mechanism that has been judicially determined
to be a "gambling device" in any way contrary to law, or that may be contrary
to any future laws of the state of Illinois.
MUSICAL DEVICE: Any machine vending to the public recorded music or a period of
radio or television entertainment upon the insertion of a coin, token or slug.
OPERATOR: Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or association who owns
or who leases any device or public pool or billiard table or who places same
within the premises of another, or who is responsible for the maintenance or
repair of same.
PUBLIC POOL OR BILLIARD TABLE: Such a table of any conventional type, with or
without bumpers, located in any place of public entertainment or accommodation,
or any location licensed to serve or sell alcoholic beverages. This definition
shall include, but not be limited to, "bumper pool" tables.
VENDING DEVICE: Any machine vending cigarettes, cigars or other products
containing tobacco, or any beverage, candy, food product, or any items of
personal property, whatsoever, upon the insertion of a coin, token or slug.
(Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
4-3-2: OPERATOR LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Licenses Required; Fees; Exemptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Vending Devices:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or
association to permit or cause to be displayed for use by the public four (4)
or more vending devices within the corporate limits of the city, unless such
person, partnership, firm, corporation or association shall first obtain from
the city an operator's license for such vending devices. Subject to the
provisions of subsection A5 of this section, each application for each
operator's license for vending devices under this subsection A1, or renewal
thereof hereunder, shall be accompanied by an annual license fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No operator's license shall be required for any person,
partnership, corporation or association which permits, or causes to be
displayed for use by the public, less than four (4) vending devices within the
corporate limits of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â No operator's license shall be required for any person,
partnership, corporation or association which permits or causes to be displayed
for use by the public any number of vending devices within the corporate limits
of the city; provided, that said vending devices are not made available for use
of the general public and are located in an area of the premises not open to
the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â No operator's license shall be required for any school or not for
profit organization which permits or causes to be displayed any number of
vending devices within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-
2000)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Amusement Devices: It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership,
corporation or association to permit, or cause to be displayed for use by the
public, any amusement device within the corporate limits of the city, unless
such person, partnership, firm, corporation or association shall first obtain
from the city an operator's license for amusement devices. Subject to the
provisions of subsection A5 of this section, each application for each
operator's license for amusement devices under this subsection A2, or renewal
thereof, shall be accompanied by an annual license fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Musical Devices: It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership,
corporation or association to permit, or cause to be displayed for use by the
public, any musical device within the corporate limits of the city, unless such
person, partnership, firm, corporation or association shall first obtain from
the city an operator's license for musical devices. Subject to the provisions
of subsection A5 of this section, each application for each operator's license
for musical devices under this subsection A3, or renewal thereof, shall be
accompanied by an annual license fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Pool And Billiard Tables: It shall be unlawful for any person,
partnership, corporation or association to permit, or cause to be displayed for
use by the public, any public pool or billiard table within the corporate
limits of the city, unless such person, partnership, firm, corporation or
association shall first obtain from the city an operator's license for public
pool or billiard tables. Subject to the provisions of subsection A5 of this
section, each application for each operator's license for public pool or
billiard tables under this subsection A4, or renewal thereof, shall be
accompanied by an annual license fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â More Than One Category Of Devices: In the event any person,
partnership, corporation or association is desirous of obtaining an operator's
license for two (2) for more categories of devices licensed under this chapter,
and notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the operator shall be
required to pay only the fee for the most costly operator's license sought by
said operator.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For License; Ineligibility:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In order to obtain an operator's license, the applicant shall file
with the clerk a written statement setting forth the full name and address,
date and place of birth of the applicant; or the names and addresses, dates and
places of birth of the partners if the applicant is a partnership; or the name
and address of each of the directors, officers and shareholders of the
corporation, if the applicant is a corporation; and the present or last
occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the application. In
the case of a corporation, the application shall disclose the number and class
of shares owned by each shareholder. The application shall be in substantially
the same form as is attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A. The
application shall be signed and notarized under oath by the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The application shall be referred by the clerk to the license
committee of the council, who shall investigate the applicant and shall make
its report and recommendations on the application to the city council. Said
application shall be presented to the city council within a reasonable time for
approval by the council; provided, however, that no operator's license shall be
issued by the city to any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A person who is not of good character and reputation in the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of any
state or of the United States within the immediately preceding five (5) years
(unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted within the immediately preceding
five (5) years of being the keeper of or who is keeping a house of ill fame
(unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor or ordinance violation opposed to decency and morality within the
immediately preceding five (5) years (unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A person who, at the time of application for renewal of an
operator's license hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a
first application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â A partnership, unless all of the partners of said partnership
shall be individually qualified to obtain a license hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â A corporation, unless all officers, managers, and directors
thereof, or any shareholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the shares of the corporation, shall each be individually qualified to
obtain a license hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â A person who is an officer of the city or a member of the city
council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The city reserves the right to reject any and all applications for
an operator's license hereunder or for the renewal of any operator's license
previously issued by the city, and upon such rejection, the annual license fee
tendered by the applicant shall be returned.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Types Of Devices Allowed: Each operator's license issued by the city
shall be valid for any and all types of devices covered under this chapter
except as provided in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-3: DEVICE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application For Licenses; Fees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Within five (5) days after any duly licensed operator shall display
any amusement device or musical device or public pool or billiard table for use
by the public, such operator shall file with the clerk an application for a
license for each such device. The application for a device license shall be
properly sworn to under seal and oath, with a brief description of each such
device and the premises where such device is located, together with the such
other relevant data as the council may require. Each application for a device
license under this subsection A1 for any amusement device or musical device or
renewal thereof shall be accompanied by an annual license fee as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code. Each application for a device license hereunder for a
public pool or billiard table or renewal thereof shall be accompanied by an
annual license fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. The city shall issue for each such device on which an
application is approved a license stating the year for which it is issued. The
city reserves the right to deny or to revoke the license of any such device
which cheats its patrons of money or amounts to a gambling device.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Within five (5) days after any duly licensed operator or any person,
partnership, corporation or association shall display any vending device for
use by the public, such operator or any person, partnership, corporation or
association shall file with the clerk an application for a license for each
such device. The application for a device license shall be properly sworn to
under seal and oath, with a brief description of each such device and the
premises where such device is located, together with such other relevant data
as the council may require. Each application for a device license under this
subsection A2 or a renewal thereof shall be accompanied by an annual license
fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. The city shall issue for each such device on which an
application is approved a license stating the year for which it is issued. The
city reserves the right to deny or to revoke the license of any such device
which cheats its patrons of money or amounts to a gambling device. (Ord. 2000-
O-49, 8-15-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Transfer Of License: All device licenses herein provided for shall be
transferable from one device to another device, regardless of whether the
devices are of the same type. Any such transfer must be reported within two (2)
working days from the date of transfer, in writing, to the city. The
notification of transfer must include the name, serial number and location of
each device or table transferred. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-4: ARCADE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required; Number Of Devices; Fee:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation, firm
or association to operate, maintain or conduct an amusement arcade or shooting
gallery within the city without first obtaining an arcade license pursuant to
the terms of this section. An "amusement arcade" is hereby defined as a
premises (other than a bowling alley premises) which contains more than eight
(8) amusement devices or public pool or billiard tables, or any combination
thereof, exceeding eight (8) in number. Further provided, that as to any
bowling alley premises, same shall not be considered an amusement arcade unless
said bowling alley premises contains more than ten (10) amusement devices or
public pool or billiard tables, or any combination thereof, exceeding ten (10)
in number. However, the limitation on public pool or billiard tables set forth
in section
4-3-9 of this chapter shall still apply to the bowling alley premises. The
application for an arcade license shall be made by the person, partnership,
corporation or association which desires to operate such arcade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No operator shall place or allow to be placed upon any premises more
than eight (8) amusement devices or public pool or billiard tables, or any
combination thereof, as herein defined, unless an arcade license has been
obtained for the premises where said devices are to be placed. (Ord. 16-O-50,
11-15-2016)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â License Fee: Subject to the provisions of subsection C of this section,
each application for each arcade license under this chapter, or renewal
thereof, shall be accompanied by an annual license fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Application For License: In order to obtain an arcade license, the
applicant shall file with the clerk a written statement setting forth the full
name and address, date and place of birth of the applicant; or the names and
addresses, dates and places of birth of the partners, if the applicant is a
partnership; or the name and address of each of the directors, officers and
shareholders of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation; and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. In the case of a corporation, the application shall disclose the
number and class of shares owned by each shareholder. The application shall be
in substantially the same form as is attached to the ordinance codified herein
as exhibit A. The form application shall be supplemented with a brief
description of the types of amusement devices, general description of the
operation contemplated, and a diagram of the game area showing the layout of
the various amusement devices, dimension of the premises and location of games
to be located on the arcade premises, together with such other relevant data as
the city council may require. The application shall be signed and notarized
under oath by the applicant.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Security Plan:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The application shall contain a detailed security plan setting forth
a plan for the safety of the patrons of the arcade, both within the premises,
and in parking lots and adjacent premises, for all times during which the
arcade is in operation. The plan shall specifically detail all steps which the
applicant intends to implement to ensure the health and safety of minors within
the premises. The proposed security plan shall be forwarded to the chief of
police for his review and approval prior to the issuance of any arcade license.
If the chief of police does not approve of the security plan, the applicant
shall be so notified and shall submit an alternate or revised security plan
which is adequate in the opinion of the chief of police. In the event the
applicant feels aggrieved by any denial of the security plan by the chief of
police, the applicant may appeal the police chief's decision to the city
council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Further provided, that if, in the sole opinion of the city, upon
commencement and continued operation of the arcade premises, the security plan
is deemed to be insufficient, inadequate or in need of modification, the
applicant shall amend its security plan to provide such additional security as
is deemed adequate in the opinion of the chief of police as set forth herein.
In the event the applicant feels aggrieved by any denial of a security plan by
the chief of police, the applicant may appeal the police chief's decision to
the city council. Failure by the applicant to provide and fully implement the
security plan shall be grounds for revocation or denial of any arcade license
hereunder. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Conditions: Any applicant for an arcade license must meet the following
conditions prior to the issuance of an arcade license:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An application must be simultaneously submitted for a device license
for each amusement device.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No gambling devices, including video, electronic or other types of
games which simulate games of chance and/or card games, shall be permitted in
any arcade premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The applicant must have first obtained from the city a variance from
the application of the city zoning regulations for the operation of an arcade
or entertainment center. The applicant must fully comply with all applicable
provisions of all city ordinances including building codes, property
maintenance code and zoning regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No arcade license shall be issued for any arcade premises which is
within a radius of three thousand seven hundred fifty feet (3,750') of any
preexisting school.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â No more than fifty (50) amusement devices shall be allowed within
any arcade premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â No arcade license shall be issued for any premises or business that
does not comply with the provisions of this chapter and all applicable
governmental regulations. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Investigation Of Applicant; Ineligibility: The application shall be
referred by the clerk to the license committee of the council who shall
investigate the applicant and shall make its report and recommendations on the
application to the city council. Said application shall be presented to the
city council within a reasonable time for approval by the council; provided,
however, that no arcade license shall be issued by the city to any of the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A person who is not of good character and reputation in the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of any
state or of the United States within the immediately preceding five (5) years
(unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted within the immediately preceding
five (5) years of being the keeper of or who is keeping a house of ill fame
(unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor or ordinance violation opposed to decency and morality within the
immediately preceding five (5) years (unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A person who, at the time of application for renewal of an
operator's license hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a
first application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A partnership, unless all of the partners of said partnership shall
be individually qualified to obtain a license hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A corporation, unless all officers, managers, and directors thereof,
or any shareholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the
shares of the corporation, shall each be individually qualified to obtain a
license hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A person who is an officer of the city or a member of the city
council.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Authority To Reject Licenses: The city reserves the right to reject any
and all applications for an arcade license hereunder or for the renewal of any
arcade license previously issued by the city, and upon such rejection, the
annual license fee tendered by the applicant shall be returned.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Issuance Or Denial Of License: With respect to such arcade licenses,
the city council shall review each application for said license and shall have
the authority to issue or not to issue any such license and to impose such
specific rules and conditions on the licensee based on the unique nature of his
establishment. This subsection shall apply upon any renewal or extension of any
said license. The city reserves the right to deny or to revoke the license of
any arcade which contains any amusement devices which cheat its patrons of
money or amount to a gambling device.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Number Of Licenses: The maximum number of arcade licenses which may be
issued shall not exceed none.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Annual Review Of Arcade Licenses: Arcade licenses shall expire and be
renewable as set forth in section
4-3-7 of this chapter. Upon application for renewal of same, current
information of the same type required by this chapter for the issuance of the
initial license shall be provided by the applicant at the time of renewal.
Further, the chief of police shall provide a report on the prior year's
operation of the applicant's establishment. The city council shall have the
authority to issue the arcade license, terminate the license or continue the
license subject to specified rules and conditions. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-5: ADDITIONAL FEES FOR FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Device License: Any person, partnership, corporation or association
failing to obtain or display a device license within the required time period
(5 days) set forth in this chapter shall pay, in addition to the device license
fee, the sum as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Operator's License: Any person, partnership, corporation or association
failing to obtain an operator's license as required pursuant to this chapter
shall pay, in addition to the operator's license fee, the sum as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Arcade License: Any person, partnership, corporation or association
failing to obtain an arcade license as required pursuant to this chapter shall
pay, in addition to the arcade license fee, the sum as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
4-3-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF OPERATOR AND ARCADE LICENSES:
An operator's license or arcade license issued under this chapter shall be
nonassignable and nontransferable. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-7: LICENSE FEE PAYMENTS; RENEWAL OF LICENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The operator's license fee and arcade license fee and renewal fees for
said licenses shall be due and payable on or before July 1 of each year, and
the device fee herein provided for shall be due and payable on or before July 1
of each year. Any licenses in force within thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date hereof shall remain in force until June 30 next.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The issuance of any license hereunder shall not be construed as
creating any future right in the applicant to receive a renewal therefor. The
licenses issued hereunder expire on an annual basis, and the person making
application for a license under this chapter acknowledges that, upon expiration
of the annual license, the city shall not be obliged to renew or extend said
license, and the granting of the license hereunder is a privilege granted to
the applicant and creates no property right in the applicant and no expectation
of continued renewal thereof. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
All such licenses described herein shall be at all times kept and placed in
plain view of all persons who may frequent or be in any place of business or
other place where such devices are kept or used. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-9: NUMBER OF POOL AND BILLIARD TABLES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, no person, partnership,
corporation, firm or association shall operate, maintain or allow within or
upon any premises within the city more than two (2) public pool or billiard
tables. This limitation shall apply to all premises within the city including
amusement arcades as provided in subsection 4-3-4A of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No operator shall place or allow to be placed upon any premises more
than two (2) "public pool or billiard tables", as defined in section
4-3-1 of this chapter. This limitation shall apply to all premises within the
city, including amusement arcades as provided in subsection 4-3-4A of this
chapter. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-10: MISREPRESENTATION BY APPLICANT:
No person, or agent of any partnership, firm or corporation, shall state or
imply to any other person, including, but not limited to, any employee,
proprietor, manager, or owner of a restaurant, bar, tavern or other place open
to the public where devices licensed pursuant to this chapter are placed, that
said person must use the devices controlled by the applicant or holder of any
license hereunder. Further, no person shall assert that any applicant or holder
of a license hereunder has a monopoly or exclusive franchise or exclusive
license for any device permitted under this chapter. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-
2000)
4-3-11: MINORS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Minors On Premises; Days And Hours Prohibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person, partnership, firm or corporation, or employee of same,
controlling an establishment containing any amusement device or public pool or
billiard table, including premises for which an arcade license has been
granted, shall permit any person under the age of eighteen (18) years, unless
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, to remain in the arcade or area
where the games are available before three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on any day
during which public school in the school district in which the city is located
is in regular session nor after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. of any day of the
week. No physical force shall be used to enforce this requirement, but the
establishment shall immediately notify the city police department and the
school district truant enforcement officers, if applicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Each licensee under this chapter shall display a sign with
substantially the following wording, or with other wording giving substantially
the same meaning:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â NOTICE
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â IF YOU ARE UNDER EIGHTEEN (18) YEARS OF AGE, YOU WILL NOT BE ALLOWED
TO REMAIN IN THIS ARCADE ON SCHOOL DAYS DURING THE HOURS WHEN SCHOOL IS IN
SESSION. FURTHER, YOU WILL NOT BE ALLOWED IN THIS ARCADE AFTER THE HOUR OF 9:00
P.M.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall enter or remain
within any bowling alley premises or premises for which an arcade license is
issued, unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian, on any day during
which public schools in the school district in which the city is located are in
regular session, nor after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any day of the week.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Days And Hours Of Operation Generally:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary,
no premises for which an arcade license is issued shall be open to the public
other than the following days and hours:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Monday through Thursday, ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Friday, ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Saturday, nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Sunday, nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any applicant to which an arcade license is issued acknowledges that
the hours of operation may be further limited or restricted in the future by
the city. The issuance of an arcade license does not in any way restrict the
city's privilege to modify this chapter to curtail or extend hours of operation
during the term of the license. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-12: GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nothing in this chapter shall be in any way construed to authorize,
license, or permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any mechanism that has
been judicially determined to be a gambling device, or in any way contrary to
law, or that may be contrary to any future laws of the state of Illinois. No
such gambling devices or other such devices shall be permitted or displayed
within the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the chief of police shall have reason to believe any amusement
device is a gambling device or is used as a gambling device, such device may be
seized by the police and impounded, and if, upon trial of the cause for
allowing said device to be used as a gambling device, the device is determined
to be a gambling device, such device shall be destroyed by the police
department.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If the mayor or chief of police, or any of their duly authorized
enforcement officers, shall have reasonable basis for believing any amusement
device is operated unlicensed, or is being used as a gambling device or for
gambling purposes, said device may be seized by any duly authorized law
enforcement official, followed by an administrative hearing to determine the
appropriateness of the seizure, and held until such time as the owner of such
device pays the delinquent fee, and reimburses the department of police for
actual cartage costs incurred in the seizure and pays the city the sum of
twenty dollars ($20.00) per day for each day or part of day said device has
been in storage.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It shall be the responsibility of the owner to pay for any cartage for
the return of any device to its original location. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-13: GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation, or employee of same, shall be
subject to the following rules and regulations:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No amusement device, vending device, or musical device shall be placed
in any required exit path of travel.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â An adult manager shall be required to be present on the premises of
each premises possessing an arcade license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any licensee or its employee to permit
gambling on any premises.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any licensee or employee who observes any gambling on the premises, or
who has any reasonable grounds to suspect that gambling is taking place, shall
immediately cause the removal from the premises of such persons as are involved
in the gambling activity.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any licensee or employee to allow a degree of
noise to develop which would cause a disturbance to the adjacent or surrounding
uses such that normal use of said adjacent or surrounding uses would be damaged
or unreasonably disturbed.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any licensee or employee to permit any
individual under the influence of alcohol or drugs to remain on the premises.
Any licensee or attendant who observes any individual on the premises to be
under the influence of alcohol or drugs or who reasonably suspects such
individual to be under the influence shall immediately cause removal of said
individual from the premises.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Any licensee or employee thereof shall have the affirmative duty to
report to the police department any or all incidents or reports of any
disorderly conduct or disturbance of the peace as defined and regulated by the
laws of the state of Illinois or the ordinances of the city, and which takes
place within the licensed premises or within two hundred feet (200') from the
entrance. This includes incidents either observed by or reported to the
licensee or any employee thereof. Failure to report any incident shall be
deemed sufficient cause to revoke all licenses issued hereunder.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â All licensees shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Keep their premises in a clean and sanitary condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Provide adequate waste receptacles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Provide adequate and orderly parking for bicycles and motor
vehicles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Ensure that all sidewalks and/or walkways outside the premises are
clear, unobstructed and open to pedestrian traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Open and operate the premises only during hours which are permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Maintain and keep all machines in good repair and operating
condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â In the event of a malfunction of a device, furnish a refund to the
device user.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â As to any premises for which an arcade license has been issued, there
shall be no sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor allowed by the licensee, or
any employee thereof, within the premises.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â As to any premises for which an arcade license has been granted, no
ingress or egress to the premises shall be allowed directly from any
establishment which holds any type of liquor license issued by the city. (Ord.
2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-14: INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Right Of Entry: The city, through its officers, agents and employees,
shall have the right to enter at all times any establishment, place or building
in which any of such devices as described herein are operated or set up for
operation for the purposes of inspecting, testing and investigating such
devices.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Annual And Regular Inspections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of the chief of police or such person as is
designated by the chief of police to inspect any vending device, amusement
device, musical device or public pool or billiard table no less than once each
year. The chief shall specifically inspect for any violations of this chapter
and further to confirm that each device conforms with all applicable
requirements of the state of Illinois.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Further, the chief of police or any person designated by the chief
of police shall conduct regular inspections to ensure compliance with all
requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nonliability Of City For And Effect Of Failure To Inspect: Neither the
chief of police nor the city, nor their agents or assigns, shall be liable to
any person, partnership, corporation, firm or association for failure to
conduct the inspections required under this chapter. Further, the failure of
the chief of police, the city, or its agents or assigns to comply with the
inspection requirements of this chapter shall not affect the required license
fee nor the validity of the license issued hereunder. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-
2000)
4-3-15: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension for
just cause by the city council. Any person making application under this
chapter shall be deemed to recognize and acknowledge that said license may be
revoked pursuant to the terms of this chapter, including the violation of any
of the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-16: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS; RECORDS KEPT:
The clerk shall deposit all funds received under this chapter in the general
fund of the city. In addition, the clerk shall cause to be kept a record of all
operator's licenses, arcade licenses and device licenses issued pursuant to the
terms of this chapter, showing the names and addresses of all persons to whom
operator's licenses and arcade licenses are issued and the description of the
device and location for each device issued hereunder, as well as any other
information deemed essential. (Ord. 2000-O-49, 8-15-2000)
4-3-17: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, firm or corporation, or employee of same, violating
any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
RAFFLES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Title
4-4-2: License Required
4-4-3: Eligible Organizations
4-4-4: Ineligible Persons
4-4-5: Application For License; Fee
4-4-6: Grant Or Denial Of License
4-4-7: Contents And Effect Of License
4-4-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-4-9: Conduct Of Raffles
4-4-10: Penalties
4-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be called or referred to as the HIGHWOOD RAFFLES ORDINANCE OF
2002. (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002)
4-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall conduct any raffle or sell or distribute
any raffle chance within the city, except as provided by the Illinois raffles
act 1  and this chapter, and pursuant to a license issued hereunder. (Ord.
2002-O-36, 5-21-2002)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
4-4-3: ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Licenses shall only be issued pursuant to this chapter to bona fide
religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or veterans'
organizations that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Operate without profit to their members; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Which have been in existence continuously for a period of five (5)
years immediately before making application for a license hereunder; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Which have had, during such entire five (5) year period, a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objects.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In addition, licenses hereunder may be issued to a nonprofit
fundraising organization that the mayor determines is organized for the sole
purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group
of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident or disaster. (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002)
4-4-4: INELIGIBLE PERSONS:
The following are ineligible for any license pursuant to this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person who has been convicted of a felony; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any person who is not of good moral character; and
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection A, B,
or C of this section has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest, or in
which such a person is active or employed; and
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B, or C of
this section is an officer, director, or the like, or an employee, whether
compensated or not; and
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B, or C of
this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle.
(Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002)
4-4-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Forms for requesting a raffle license hereunder shall be made available
at city hall and shall be filed by any organization seeking a license
hereunder.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The application shall contain a sworn statement attesting to the not
for profit character of the applicant organization, which shall be signed by
the presiding officer and secretary of that organization.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The application shall specify, among other things:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All persons who are in any position of authority within the
applicant organization, such as, but not limited to, director, officer,
employee, or agent;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All persons who shall participate in the management of the raffle in
any way;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The single raffles manager required by subsection 4-4-9G of this
chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The person who shall account for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from each raffle pursuant to subsection 4-4-9H5 of this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be
awarded by the licensee in a single raffle;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded by the licensee
in a single raffle;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance to be
issued or sold;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The area or areas within the city in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â The time of determination of winning chances and the location or
locations at which winning chances will be determined; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â The method of determining winning chance(s). (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-
2002)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The fee for the initial filing of an application shall be as provided
in section
3-2A-1 of this code, which may, however, upon good cause shown, be waived by
the mayor. (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
4-4-6: GRANT OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The applications shall be acted upon by the mayor within thirty (30) days of
being filed. However, such action may include returning the application to the
applicant for correction, modification, addition, or the like. The mayor, at
his sole discretion, shall decide whether or not to grant any license pursuant
to this chapter and need not specify any reason whatsoever for denying any
application hereunder. (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002)
4-4-7: CONTENTS AND EFFECT OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nothing in this chapter shall require that any license be issued
hereunder, but the same shall be issued at the sole discretion of the mayor.
The mayor may, but need not, establish special categories of licenses and
promulgate rules relating to the various categories, which shall be published
and made available to the public during normal business hours at city hall. Any
license issued hereunder shall specify, among other information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be
awarded by the licensee in a single raffle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded by the licensee
in a single raffle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance to be
issued or sold; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The area or areas within the city in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The time of determination of winning chances and the location or
locations at which winning chances will be determined; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The method of determining winning chance(s).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â This information shall be a condition of the license, and any violation
of any of these conditions shall be a violation of this chapter. Licenses
issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for one raffle or a specified
number of raffles to be conducted during a specified period, not to exceed one
year. (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002)
4-4-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Licenses issued hereunder may be suspended or revoked by the mayor for any
violation of the Illinois raffles act or this chapter. (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-
2002)
4-4-9: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
All raffles conducted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to the
following restrictions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Net Proceeds: The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively
devoted to the lawful purposes of the organization licensed hereunder to
conduct that game; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Members Only: No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring
licensed organization may participate in the management or operation of the
raffle; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nonprofit Nature: No person may receive any remuneration or profit for
participating in the management or operation of any raffle; and
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Rented Premises: A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine
the winning chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is
also licensed pursuant to this chapter; and
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Location Restrictions: Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within
the area specified on the license, and winning chances may be determined only
at those locations specified on the license; and
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Persons Under Eighteen: A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may participate in the conducting of raffles or chances only with the
permission of a parent or guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18)
years may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only
when accompanied by his parent or guardian; and
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Manager:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All operation of and conduct of raffles shall be under the
supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the licensed
organization. The manager shall give a fidelity bond:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In an amount to be specified by the mayor in the license;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â In favor of the licensed organization;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of his duties;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â With terms providing that notice shall be given in writing to the
mayor not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation; (Ord. 2002-O-
36, 5-21-2002)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the members of the licensed organization have voted unanimously
to request waiver of the bonding requirement in this subsection, and the mayor
and city council decide to waive such requirement in the license, this
subsection shall not apply to that license; and (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002;
amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Records:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each licensee hereunder shall keep complete records of its gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at
which winning chances are determined;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the net
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee,
purpose, amount and date of payment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of each licensed organization, including bingo
gross receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization pursuant to license therefor issued by the state department of
revenue, and placed in a separate account;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Each organization shall have separate records of its raffles. The
person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the
operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the licensed organization; (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Promptly, after the conclusion of each raffle, each organization
licensed hereunder shall report its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds
from raffles and the distribution of net proceeds to its membership and the
mayor, itemized as required by this subsection; (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002;
amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Records required by this subsection shall be preserved for five (5)
years, and licensed organizations shall make their records relating to
operation of raffles available for public inspection at reasonable times and
places, and shall immediately forward accurate written copies of the same to
the mayor upon request; and
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Drawings: Any determination of winning chances may only be conducted as
specified in the license for the raffle, at the time and place specified, and
shall be made publicly known throughout the entire time any chances are sold or
distributed, and until all determinations are completed. All such
determinations of winning chances shall be open to the public where all persons
present may observe the complete procedure utilized to select the winning
chances. The mayor shall be permitted to inspect and examine all raffle
materials at any time that any winning chance is being determined, even if to
do so would delay such determination. (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-2002)
4-4-10: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm or corporation, or employee of same,
violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this chapter shall not
release such person from paying any fee due and unpaid at the time of such
conviction, nor shall payment of any fee prevent prosecution for violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The amount of any fee due hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the city.
An action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent fee. All unpaid fees shall be
deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 2002-O-36, 5-21-
2002)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 19-O-04, 4-16-2019)
CHAPTER 6
TAXICABS
(Rep. by Ord. 19-O-04, 4-16-2019)
CHAPTER 7
USED CAR LOTS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Scope; Records Kept
4-7-3: Application For License
4-7-4: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance, Denial, Revocation Of License
4-7-5: License Fees
4-7-6: Number Of Licenses
4-7-7: Restrictions And Regulations
4-7-8: Inspections
4-7-9: Penalties
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
CONSIGNMENT: Accepting possession without purchasing, with the objective of
selling and receiving a sum of money, commission or percentage when the sale is
made.
USED CAR LOT: Any lot, plot or parcel of land, vacant or improved, where used
or secondhand motor vehicles of whatever description are stored, kept or
offered for sale, trade, disposal, exchange or otherwise, by any person, firm,
corporation or entity. The presence of a vehicle without current state license
plates or any current city of Highwood vehicle license or sticker shall be
prima facie evidence that the vehicle is offered for sale if said vehicle is in
the possession of or held or controlled by a merchant, auto mechanic, bank, or
garage.
USED CAR SALES OPERATION: Any business where used or secondhand motor vehicles
are held for sale, trade, exchange, disposal or otherwise to the public, from
time to time, or which has sold at least three (3) such vehicles during the
twelve (12) months immediately preceding. Any person, firm, corporation or
entity selling, trading, exchanging, disposing or otherwise disposing of used
or secondhand motor vehicles in the city shall be deemed to be engaged in the
business of a "used car sales operation", regardless of whether vehicles are
displayed at the premises. Further provided, that any individual making an
isolated sale of his own motor vehicle shall not be deemed to be engaged in a
"used car sales operation" or a used car sales lot. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003)
4-7-2: SCOPE; RECORDS KEPT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any person, firm or
corporation accepting used motor vehicles for sale on consignment. Each person,
firm or corporation accepting motor vehicles for sale on consignment shall keep
accurate records of the names, addresses and descriptions of persons placing
motor vehicles for sale on consignment. Such records for each motor vehicle
shall be kept for at least one year after the motor vehicle is sold or
withdrawn from sale.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The provisions of this chapter shall apply to lots displaying motor
vehicles for sale under other arrangements, such as rental of spaces in a lot
to display motor vehicles for sale. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003)
4-7-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
No person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation shall operate or maintain a
used car lot or conduct a used car sales operation in the city until and except
upon proper application being made to the city clerk in substantially the same
form as attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A and approved by
the mayor. Such applications shall be kept for a period of five (5) years by
the collector as public documents. The application shall be signed and
notarized under oath by the applicant. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003)
4-7-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE, DENIAL, REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The application shall be referred by the clerk to the mayor, who may cause the
applicant to be investigated and may thereafter issue the license; provided,
that the license shall not issue unless the applicant has complied with the
provisions hereof and is found to be a person of good character and reputation
in the city. The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm,
entity or corporation for violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
grounds for the revocation of any license issued hereunder and shall be grounds
for the denial of any other license. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
4-7-5: LICENSE FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fees Established: The annual license fees for the operation of a used
car lot shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. Said license fees are payable on or before April 1 of each
calendar year. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No Proration: There shall be no proration for periods of less than
twelve (12) months. The full amount of the annual license fee shall be tendered
with the application therefor. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Late Filing Fee: Any renewal application or fee received after April 1
shall be accompanied by a late filing fee as provided in section
3-2A-2 of this code. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
4-7-6: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
As the operation of a used car facility is not a permitted use within the city
(other than in conjunction with new car sales), the number of licenses issued
hereunder shall not exceed two (2). Further, upon the failure of any existing
license holder to timely renew any existing license (as evidenced by the filing
of an application, and payment of the license fee no later than April 1 of each
year), said license shall be, and the number of licenses permitted pursuant to
the terms of this chapter shall be, automatically reduced to preclude the
issuance of said license. Any application for a license in excess of the number
of licenses permitted hereunder shall be referred to the city council for
consideration and determination of such application and the creation of a new
license, if found to be in the best interest of the city. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-
2003)
4-7-7: RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to store, park, or keep or display for sale or
otherwise any used motor vehicle which is not in good running and safe
operating condition, as required by the ordinances of the city and the laws,
rules, regulations, and administrative provisions of the state of Illinois and
the United States of America relating to motor vehicles, or whose odometer
reflects mileage less than the actual mileage of the vehicle unless the
accuracy of the odometer is disclaimed as provided for by state or federal law.
(Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All motor vehicles offered for sale shall be parked in an orderly
fashion, in stalls which are delineated clearly by pavement striping, and
having a stall size of not less than nine feet by eighteen feet (9' x 18') and
at least two feet (2') between each vehicle and any other vehicle, wall, fence,
structure, obstruction or dumpster. Further provided, that any person, firm,
corporation or entity to which a license has been previously issued shall be
granted thirty (30) days from the effective date hereof to comply with the
provisions of this subsection. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any used car lot shall be well lighted at night. Said licensee shall
further comply with all ordinances of the city, the laws, rules, regulations,
and administrative provisions of the state of Illinois, and any other
applicable laws, rules or regulations of any applicable jurisdiction,
including, but not limited to, those relating to fire regulations, safety and
sanitation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No motor vehicle shall be repaired or dismantled, or left in a
dismantled state, upon the used car lot. Provided, that this subsection shall
not prohibit the repair or servicing of any motor vehicle within the confines
of a garage or indoor service bay of a filling station or such of the indoor
servicing units being operated in connection with used car lots.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any person, firm, corporation or entity engaged in a used car lot or
used car sales operation shall cause to be kept a record of all motor vehicles
offered for sale, trade, disposal, exchange or otherwise, which record shall
show the make of said motor vehicle, the year of its manufacture, its serial
number and the engine number, which record shall always be kept available for
the chief of police, his designee, or any patrol officer within the city and
open to inspection at any time. It shall be the further duty of every such
person, firm, corporation or entity operating a used car lot or used car sales
operation to immediately report to the chief of police the presence in his
place of business of any motor vehicle on which the serial or engine number has
been defaced or altered.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â In addition to any other requirements of this chapter, or of law,
statute, regulation or other applicable governmental regulation, including, but
not limited to, those of the United States federal government and its agencies,
every used car lot and every used car sales operation within the city, or
subject to this chapter, shall, at all times, fully and completely comply with
all federal trade commission rules and regulations applicable thereto,
including, but not limited to, the consumer sales window form mandated by
section 455.2 of title 16 of the United States code of federal regulations, or
any successor regulations thereto, which form shall be prominently displayed at
all times.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to store, park, or keep, or display for sale or
otherwise, any used motor vehicle otherwise than in the delineated stalls set
forth above, and no such vehicles shall be stored, parked, or kept for display,
for sale or otherwise upon any street, parkway or public parking area. (Ord.
2003-O-19, 4-2-2003)
4-7-8: INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any used car lot or used car sales operation shall be subject to
inspection by the police, building and health officials at such times as are
deemed necessary by the municipal authorities, and by submitting an application
pursuant to the terms of this chapter, the applicant consents to all
inspections required or permitted by the terms of this chapter or to otherwise
ensure that the premises and records are in full compliance with all laws,
regulations and ordinances.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Further, it shall be the duty of the chief of police or such person as
is designated by the chief of police to inspect any licensed used car lot no
less frequently than six (6) times per year. The chief shall specifically
inspect for all violations of this chapter and further to confirm that each
vehicle offered for sale is equipped with serviceable mirrors, lights and horn
and otherwise conforms with all applicable requirements for motor vehicles used
on public roadways or offered for sale within the state. Further, the chief
shall confirm by inspection that the person, firm or corporation which operates
the used car lot complies with all state and federally mandated title and
odometer disclosures.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Neither the chief of police nor the city, nor their agents or assigns,
shall be liable to any person, firm, corporation or entity for failure to
conduct the inspections required under this section. Further, the failure of
the chief of police or the city, or their agents or assigns, to comply with the
requirements of this section shall not affect the required license fee nor the
validity of the license issued hereunder. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-2003)
4-7-9: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation violating any
provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In the case of any violations of this chapter, any enforcement officer
may institute an appropriate action or proceeding to exact the penalty provided
above. Also, such enforcement officer shall refer such matter to the mayor or
the city council. The mayor or city council may direct the city attorney to
proceed at law or in equity against any person, partnership, firm, entity or
corporation determined to be in violation of this chapter for the purpose of
ordering said person, firm, entity or corporation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To restrain, correct or remove the violation or refrain from any
further violation of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To cease the continued operation of such facility permitted
hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To require the removal of any vehicle or items found to be in
violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â For such other actions as may be necessary and proper for full
enforcement of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this chapter shall not
release such person from paying any fee due and unpaid at the time of such
conviction, nor shall payment of any fee prevent prosecution for violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The amount of any fee due hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the city.
An action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent fee and/or tax. All unpaid fees
shall be deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 2003-O-19, 4-2-
2003)
CHAPTER 8
VALET PARKING SERVICES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Permit Required
4-8-4: Application For Permit
4-8-5: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions Imposed
4-8-6: Transfer Zone
4-8-7: General Regulations
4-8-8: Specified Storage Areas
4-8-9: Nonliability Of City
4-8-10: Violations; Penalty Options
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
The general purposes of this chapter are:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To provide for the safe operation of valet parking services where the
transfer and temporary parking of motor vehicles between customers and valet
parking services takes place on public streets or public property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To prohibit the obstruction of the ordinary flow of traffic and
designated "no parking" zones in the course of operating a valet parking
service.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To designate those places where valet parking services may be legally
provided by a business or its duly authorized parking contractor. (Ord. 2006-O-
11, 3-21-2006)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be applicable as to this chapter:
BUSINESS: Any commercial establishment which makes valet parking services
available to its customers and which receives or stores motor vehicles within
the city of Highwood.
CUSTOMER: Any person granting temporary custody of a motor vehicle to a valet
operator for the purpose of valet parking.
DESIGNATED PARKING AREA: Those areas of the city as specified in this chapter
where a valet operator may store customer motor vehicles.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation, association,
joint stock company, trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal
entity, or its legal representative, agents or assigns.
PROHIBITED PARKING AREA: Those areas of the city as specified in this chapter
where a valet operator is prohibited from storing customer motor vehicles.
TRANSFER ZONE: Any area used as the pick up, loading, unloading or discharge
points for valet parking services.
VALET OPERATOR: Any person who employs one or more attendants for the purpose
of providing a valet parking service or who contracts his own services, but not
in the capacity of employee, to any business establishment for the purpose of
providing a valet parking service to such establishment.
VALET PARKING OPERATION: The performance of valet parking services by any
business or valet operator.
VALET PARKING PERMIT: A permit issued pursuant to this chapter to an operator
for the conduct of valet parking services.
VALET PARKING PLAN: A plan approved for operation of valet parking services as
provided in this chapter.
VALET PARKING SERVICES: A parking service provided to accommodate customers of
any business establishment, which service is incidental to the business of the
establishment and by which a person on behalf of the establishment takes
temporary custody of the customer's motor vehicle and moves, parks, stores or
retrieves the vehicle for the customer's convenience. Provided, "valet parking
service" does not include such parking service where all activities, including
loading, unloading, transfer, transport and storage, are conducted entirely
upon private, nonresidentially zoned property.
VALET TAG: An identification ticket to be displayed on all motor vehicles while
under the control of the valet operator stating the name of the business being
served, the name of the valet company and its phone number. At a minimum, the
valet tag shall measure at least four inches by six inches (4" x 6").
VIOLATION ESCROW: An escrow as provided in this chapter to pay any violations
incurred by a valet operator. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
4-8-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer or provide valet parking services
in the city without a valid valet parking permit issued in accordance with this
chapter. A separate permit shall be required for each business served. (Ord.
2006-O-11, 3-21-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
4-8-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An application for a valet parking permit shall be filed with the city
clerk by the valet operator or business on a form supplied by the clerk and
shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The valet operator's company name and license holder, address, and
telephone and facsimile numbers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The business name, address, and telephone and facsimile numbers, and
the name of the local manager for the business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A proposed valet parking plan which shall include a general
description of the proposed valet parking services in conformance with this
chapter. Valet parking services shall only be conducted in areas shown on an
approved valet parking plan including the site or sites upon which cars will be
temporarily stored and the locations of all transfer zones. A valet parking
plan should contain the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A site map showing the buildings, parking lot layouts, streets
and fire hydrants within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the transfer zone;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The location of all valet parking spaces;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The location of the transfer zones;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The location and elevations (pictures, renditions) of signs to be
used during valet parking operations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Valet parking, circulation routes and patterns;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The time of valet parking operations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The number of parking spaces to be reserved for valet parking;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The parking pattern (vehicle movement pattern); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Number of valet employees used to ensure operation of said valet
parking plan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The valet operator's insurance company name, address, telephone
number, amount of coverage and effective dates of the policy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Copies of any leases or other written agreements pursuant to which a
business or valet operator is authorized to use real property which it does not
own for the temporary storage of customer vehicles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â If a valet parking operation will be performed for the business by a
separate valet operator, a copy of a fully executed contract between the
business and the valet operator. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Every valet operator shall procure and maintain insurance coverage
as provided herein, at its sole expense, at all times during which any valet
parking operation is being conducted and at all times any valet parking permit
is in effect. Application shall include proof of the valet operator's insurance
for protection from:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Claims under the workers' compensation act 1 ;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Claims for bodily injury, including personal injury and death,
sickness or disease or death of any and all employees or of any person other
than such employees; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Claims or damages because of injury to or destruction of
property, including loss of use resulting therefrom which may arise from the
valet parking operation in the following specified amounts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â For workers' compensation, the statutory limits.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â For liability insurance for valet services which includes
automobile transport and storage as well as general liability, one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00). (Ord. 2006-O-24, 7-18-2006)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The valet operator shall name the city as an additional named
insured under the above liability policy which shall provide that no policy nor
any part thereof may be terminated or modified except upon thirty (30) days'
prior written notice to the city. (Ord. 2006-O-24, 7-18-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The valet operator shall provide the city with a proper
insurance certificate, at his sole expense, at all times any valet parking
operation is being conducted and at all times any valet parking permit is in
effect. (Ord. 2006-O-24, 7-18-2006)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â An indemnification and waiver agreement, signed by the applicant,
promising to hold harmless and to defend the city or any of its agents,
officials and employees from and against any property damage, personal injury
or death that may result from granting of the valet parking permit or from the
valet parking operation. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â A license fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â A violation escrow in amount established in subsection 4-8-7D of
this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Applications for the renewal of a valet parking permit shall be made to
the city on forms provided by the city for that purpose not less than sixty
(60) days prior to the expiration of the valet parking permit to be renewed.
The fee for a renewal shall be the same as for a new valet parking permit.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Within ten (10) days after a change in status of any of the information
required by this section, the business or valet operator shall file an amended
application for valet parking permit in the office of the city clerk on a form
supplied by the clerk. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
4-8-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS IMPOSED:
Upon receipt of a completed application form, payment of all required fees or
fines that may be due pursuant to this chapter and compliance with all other
applicable requirements of this chapter, upon approval by the city, the city
shall issue a valet parking permit. Such valet parking permit may contain such
conditions and limitations as are necessary to promote safe and sound passenger
loading and unloading, vehicle transfer and traffic movement as may be
determined by the city. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
4-8-6: TRANSFER ZONE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No valet parking permit, or renewal thereof, shall be issued unless the
applicant provides proof to the city that the business for which the valet
parking service is to be provided has made available a transfer zone of at
least one parking space and a maximum of two (2) parking spaces unless a
request has been made and approval given for additional parking spaces
immediately adjacent to its premises for the pick up and delivery of the
customers' vehicles.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No on street transfer zone shall be approved or utilized unless and
until all required signage has been established.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All vehicles accepted for valet parking service shall be immediately
removed from the transfer zone and moved to the storage area specified in the
valet parking permit. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The chief of police may authorize the extension of valet parking
loading zones if deemed in the best interest of public safety under special
circumstances, such as special events. Request must be made in writing no less
than seventy two (72) hours in advance. (Ord. 14-O-10, 6-3-2014)
4-8-7: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Compliance Required: The holder of a valet parking permit shall at all
times conduct valet parking operations in accordance with this chapter and in
accordance with an approved valet parking plan.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nontransferability Of Permit: Each valet parking permit issued shall be
nontransferable and shall be valid for one year, commencing on July 1, and
shall have designated thereon the name and address of the valet operator and
the business to be served by the valet operator.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Responsibility Of Operator For Employees: Operators shall be
responsible for the acts of their employees and agents in the conduct of the
valet parking service.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Violation Escrow: A separate violation escrow in the amount of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be established and maintained by each valet
operator for each business served. To that end, any valet operator shall be
notified of a deduction from the violation escrow as provided in this chapter
and shall, within ten (10) days, replenish the violation escrow back to the
required two hundred dollar ($200.00) level.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Signs: Every business establishment for which a valet parking permit is
issued shall, during the hours of service, display a valet parking sign
approved by the city. Every valet operator must post its name and the rates, if
any, onto the valet parking sign in four inch (4") lettering. All valet parking
signs shall comply with the following specifications and requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The entire sign assembly must be no larger than twenty four inches
by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), and the actual surface of the sign shall not
exceed six (6) square feet in size;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The sign must be constructed of durable, weatherproof materials;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The sign cannot have sharp edges or any protrusions or features that
could be a hazard to pedestrians;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The sign must be properly designed and heavy enough to withstand
typical winds without tipping over, rocking or sliding;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The sign cannot have moving parts or electrical devices, including
lights;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The sign cannot use any images resembling official signs or anything
else that can cause it to be confused with an official traffic control device;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Only one sign is allowed per place of business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The sign shall only be displayed during hours when the valet parking
service is offered;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The sign must be placed within the designated transfer zone but in
no case shall it be more than eight feet (8') from the curb; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â No signs may be placed in the street (including on street parking
spaces) or right up against the curbs after a two inch (2") snowfall.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Valet Tag: Every valet operator shall place or cause the valet tag to
be placed so as to be conspicuously visible through the windshield of the
patron's vehicle.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Attendant Insignia: Each attendant of a valet parking operation shall,
while on duty, wear, conspicuously placed on the attendant's clothing, an
insignia which identifies the valet parking operator or business for whom the
attendant is working.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Receipt Issued: All valet parking attendants must, upon taking custody
of a patron's vehicle, issue a numbered receipt to each customer containing the
name, address, and telephone number of the company providing the valet service,
a statement that the company has liability insurance as required by this
chapter and the charge for the valet service.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Transfer Zone Revoked Or Moved: The city council may, in its sole
discretion, revoke or move a transfer zone at any time, if it determines that
the transfer zone or its location has increased traffic congestion or traffic
hazards in the public streets, or otherwise has impaired the public health,
safety or welfare.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Traffic Regulations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The licensee and its agents, at all times, shall comply with all
traffic rules and regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No person may park any vehicle in any manner which violates the
provisions of this chapter or any other duly adopted city parking regulation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In conducting a valet parking operation, no person may obstruct the
normal flow of traffic or block or occupy a "no parking zone". (Ord. 2006-O-11,
3-21-2006)
4-8-8: SPECIFIED STORAGE AREAS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A valet operator may store customer motor vehicles only on private,
nonresidential property, pursuant to a written lease, deed or agreement. A
valet operator shall store customer vehicles only in locations outside the city
or in designated parking areas. Except as specified below as a designated
parking area, all other locations within the city are designated as prohibited
parking areas. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The following are designated parking areas:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â West side of Bank Lane.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sheridan Road (north of Webster Avenue).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Clay Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Lakeview Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Private property (with proof of authorization), provided such
private property conforms to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Under no circumstances shall any residentially zoned property be
used as a designated parking area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Designated parking areas on private property shall be limited to
paved parking surfaces, constructed and maintained in conformance with city
codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Downtown Highwood Commuter Metra Parking Lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Highwood Recreation Center.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â East side of Green Bay Road (north of Burchell Avenue).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Washington Avenue (east of Green Bay Road).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Highwood Library Parking Lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â 9 Walker Avenue Parking Lot. (Ord. 14-O-10, 6-3-2014)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Motor vehicles accepted for valet parking service shall not be parked
at any location within the city that has not been specifically approved for
valet parking operations in the valet parking permit. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-
2006)
4-8-9: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
The city assumes no liability for any aspect of a valet parking operation or
for the failure or neglect of any person associated with such an operation.
(Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
4-8-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY OPTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Except as specified herein, any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall, upon a finding of guilty, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The valet operator shall be responsible for any parking fines and
penalties from illegally parked vehicles under the valet operator's control or
displaying such valet operator's valet tag. Such fines shall be deducted from
the valet operator's violation escrow.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In the event the police chief determines that an operator has violated
any provision of this chapter, the chief may, in lieu of seeking sanctions as
provided in subsection A of this section:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Impose a fine of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
each offense. In such event, the city shall notify the operator of the
violation and deduct from the operator's violation escrow the amount for any
fines and penalties charged.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Recommend the suspension or revocation of the valet parking permit
to the city council, who may, by majority vote, revoke or suspend a valet
parking lot permit.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any operator notified of any deduction from the operator's violation
escrow may appeal such action to the mayor within ten (10) days of receipt of
such notice. The mayor shall provide the operator an opportunity to show cause
why the penalty should not be imposed and may affirm, reverse or modify such
action. (Ord. 2006-O-11, 3-21-2006)
CHAPTER 9
POLICE TOWING OPERATIONS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: License And Agreement Required
4-9-3: Ineligibility For License
4-9-4: Processing Application; Approval Or Denial
4-9-5: Insurance Requirements
4-9-6: Nontransferability Of License
4-9-7: Duties And Requirements Of Licensee And Tow Drivers
4-9-8: Operation Of Rotation Lists
4-9-9: Removal From Rotation List
4-9-10: Fees
4-9-11: Miscellaneous Regulations
4-9-12: Penalty
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
CALL ROTATION OR CALL ROTATION LIST: A list of licensees maintained by the
Highwood police department and utilized for the consensual and nonconsensual
towing of vehicles within the city limits of Highwood.
POLICE TOW: A tow requested by the Highwood police department for:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Vehicles that are disabled where the person in charge of the vehicle
has no preference for any particular tow service or is unable to make such
decision.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â City owned vehicles.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Vehicles impounded by the Highwood police department for evidentiary,
investigative or seizure purposes, or arrests.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Abandoned vehicles that are towed pursuant to Highwood police
department procedures.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Illegally parked vehicles that pose a traffic hazard.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â At the request of the vehicle owner.
POLICE TOWING LICENSE OR LICENSE: A license issued by the city of Highwood
authorizing a person or firm to engage in the business of vehicle towing at the
request of the Highwood police department.
POLICE TOWING LICENSEE OR LICENSEE: A person or firm engaged in the business
of, or offering the services of, vehicle towing, whereby motor vehicles are or
may be towed or otherwise relocated from one place to another, or serviced on
scene, by use of a tow truck and by request of the Highwood police department,
and approved by the Highwood police department.
TOW DRIVER: An agent that works for a licensee, driving or operating a tow
truck, or working at the scene of a license call.
TOW TRUCK: As defined in the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-205.1, as amended. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-2: LICENSE AND AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
Any person/business desiring to perform police towing work at the request of
the police department shall submit and obtain a police towing license and
police towing license agreement. Application forms may be obtained from the
police department. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-3: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No person shall be approved as a licensee or a tow driver, nor shall any
licensee knowingly permit such a person to be a tow driver pursuant to a
license call, who:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Has any felony conviction within the last five (5) years in any state;
or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Is a "sex offender", as defined in Illinois law, 730 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 150/2, as amended; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Has been convicted under the laws of Illinois or any other state of an
offense that, under the laws of the state of Illinois, would be a felony theft
of a vehicle or vehicle parts.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Is indebted to the city and is more than sixty (60) days late in
payment of such debt. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-4: PROCESSING APPLICATION; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The police department will conduct an investigation to determine the
truth and accuracy of the information contained in the application. The police
department will also check to determine whether the location(s) meets
applicable requirements of this chapter as well as city building, zoning and
fire codes. The towing equipment and business will be inspected. Upon
completion of the investigation, the applicant will be notified in writing that
the application is either approved or disapproved, and if disapproved, the
notification will state the reasons for such disapproval. Reasons for
disapproval include, but are not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The applicant has furnished false or misleading information or has
failed to provide relevant information on the application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The applicant has not obtained insurance as required by this
chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The location(s) where the applicant will conduct business fails to
meet applicable zoning and/or fire codes or the requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The applicant or any of the owners/partners have been permanently
removed from the police towing licensee list for cause.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The applicant otherwise does not meet all of the requirements of
this chapter or the towing license agreement.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any applicant deemed ineligible by the chief of police will have the
right to appeal the decision of the chief of police to the mayor, or designee.
Appeals must be made by filing a written notice of appeal with the mayor within
ten (10) days of notice of the decision of the chief of police. The mayor will
hear the appeal within fourteen (14) days after the appeal is filed, unless
otherwise agreed. The mayor will notify the applicant of the decision within
seven (7) days after the decision is made. The mayor may affirm or overrule the
decision of the chief of police. The mayor's decision will be final. (Ord.
2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-5: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The licensee shall obtain and maintain general liability, automobile
liability, garage keeper's legal liability and workers' compensation insurance
throughout the period of the agreement as determined by the city. Provided, the
general liability policy shall provide not less than seven hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($750,000.00) of single limit coverage. The insurance policies
shall be with insurance carriers authorized for business in the state of
Illinois.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city will be named as an additional insured by the licensee on each
insurance policy.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The licensee will provide certificates of insurance to the city which
indicate coverage for the above mentioned insurances and which carry the
provision that said insurance will not be canceled without giving the city at
least thirty (30) days' notice of cancellation or material change. The licensee
shall provide updated certificates as needed. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
Any license granted pursuant to this chapter shall be personal to the
individual or entity to whom issued and may not be transferred to any other
person or entity. Such license shall not be sold, leased, transferred,
assigned, or otherwise disposed of, either in whole or in part, whether by
forced sale, merger, consolidation, bankruptcy, reorganization under bankruptcy
laws, or otherwise, without reapplication. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-7: DUTIES AND REQUIREMENTS OF LICENSEE AND TOW DRIVERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All applicants issued a license, and their agents, will enter into a
towing license agreement with the city, with separate signatures for each
licensee and agent. The written agreement will be in a form approved by the
city attorney.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each licensee will defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city, the
city council, and city officers and employees from any suits, claims, or
actions brought, or disease or illness or damages sustained or arising out of
the operation of towing services and storage of vehicles, and arising out of
the performance of any requirement of this section by the licensee or in
consequence thereof.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All tow trucks shall have working two-way communication equipment with
their base station located at the point where calls are received.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All tow trucks (except flatbed car carriers) shall carry at least one
set of wheel dollies at all times.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All licensees shall be able to safely transport motorcycles.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Each licensee shall provide twenty four (24) hour per day service each
day of the year. There shall be an attendant or answering service on duty at
all times for the purpose of receiving calls, and there shall be a person on
call as provided herein for the purpose of releasing stored vehicles or for
receiving vehicles. An attendant shall be available at the storage facilities
to release vehicles Monday through Friday, seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. In addition, the attendant shall be on call to release
vehicles from five o'clock (5:00) P.M. to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday. On Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, an attendant shall be on
call from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. In addition,
the towing contractor shall provide dispatch with the telephone number of an
employee who will be available for emergency vehicle releases. (Ord. 2006-O-19,
6-6-2006)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No vehicles will be released unless a completed and signed vehicle
release form from the city is presented to claim the vehicle. Before issuance
of such form, an administration fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code shall be paid to the city for any vehicle seized as part of
a criminal investigation, including vehicles seized in relation to arrests for
driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or reckless driving. This fee
shall not apply to vehicles towed for unpaid parking violations or vehicles
removed from the roadway as a result of mechanical failure or accident not
involving charges of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, reckless
driving or felony charges. Persons attempting to claim a vehicle without a
release form will be directed back to the police department to obtain the
necessary release form. A sample release form will be provided for verification
purposes to each towing company. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â All tow trucks shall be equipped with warning lights and all other
equipment required by federal, state or city laws.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Licensee must immediately, and in writing, inform the police department
regarding any changes of the information on the original application for
license. Failure to comply with this requirement may constitute grounds for
removal from the police towing licensee list.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Every licensee or tow driver shall remove or cause to be removed all
glass and debris deposited on any street or highway by the vehicle being
serviced. The licensee or tow driver shall also spread oil-dry upon that
portion of any street or highway where any fluids have been deposited by the
vehicle being serviced, unless the fire department has taken charge of the
cleanup, at which point, the licensee will follow the instructions of fire
department personnel regarding cleanup.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â While at the scene of any call for a license tow, every licensed tow
driver will wear outer apparel that clearly identifies the company for which
the tow driver works and the tow driver's first name.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Each licensee shall maintain a fenced and secure storage lot within two
(2) air miles of the city of adequate size to store all towed vehicles safely,
but in no event shall the capacity be smaller than twenty five (25) vehicles.
In addition, the licensee must have space for at least four (4) cars for long
term storage of approximately six (6) months or more to be utilized at the
discretion of the police department (forfeitures/seizures). The licensee shall
maintain an office at said storage lot that is staffed and open to the public
as provided herein and during normal business hours. When instructed by the
police department that a vehicle in storage must be secured from tampering, the
operator shall store said vehicle so that it is not accessible to any person
except upon specific approval of the police department. The licensee will not
allow anyone but police department personnel to access the vehicle. This
storage will be at the licensee's storage facility and can be within the fenced
lot or within a building at the storage lot, at the discretion of the licensee.
(Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-8: OPERATION OF ROTATION LISTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The police department utilizes the rotation list for all police tows
within the city. The police department will endeavor to ensure that licensees
are called in rotation as far as is reasonable and practicable. Except upon
request of the owner, operator or person legitimately in possession of the
vehicle to be serviced, the police department will not call any tow truck not
on the police towing licensee list unless all such licensees are unavailable.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The police department may deviate from the order of normal rotation if,
in the police department's judgment, deviation is necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and/or welfare or to ensure proper traffic, incident, or
accident management. The police department may also deviate from the order of
normal rotation if the licensee next on rotation is, in the police department's
sole discretion and judgment, incapable or improperly equipped for handling a
specific task.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If a licensee is unable to respond to a request for service within the
time frames required in the towing license agreement, the licensee or employee
thereof shall advise the police department that they are not available due to
an extended response time. The licensee will then be placed at the bottom of
the list. No substitute tow company or licensee will be allowed. The next
licensee on the list shall then be called.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â When a request for service is canceled after being dispatched off the
police towing licensee list, the licensee will be put back at the top of the
list.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The city reserves the right to terminate or modify its license
procedure unilaterally at any time without any notice and without recourse.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The police department may inspect any licensee to determine compliance
with this chapter and applicable agreements and regulations. This inspection
may include the physical location of the business and any place where towed
vehicles are stored, all records associated with license calls, a check of
employees for criminal and traffic records, and anything else related to the
license as deemed appropriate.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The chief of police may establish reasonable rules and regulations not
inconsistent with this chapter governing the administration and operation of
the tow rotation program. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-9: REMOVAL FROM ROTATION LIST:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Removal From List: The chief of police, or designee, may remove any
licensee temporarily or permanently when it is determined that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The license was secured by fraud or concealment of a material fact
which, if known, would have caused disapproval of the application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter,
rules and regulations promulgated by the chief of police, or the police
department towing license agreement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The service provided by the licensee has been substantially
inadequate, which shall include, but not be limited to, failing to be available
for or not accepting calls, slow response time, excessive damage claims, theft,
repeated complaints from citizens, or inadequate service or towing equipment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â During the term of the license, any licensee or a tow driver:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Is convicted of any felony in any state;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Is determined to be a "sex offender", as defined in Illinois law,
730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/2, as amended; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Is convicted under the laws of Illinois or any other state of an
offense that, under the laws of the state of Illinois, would be a felony theft
of a vehicle or vehicle parts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â During the term of the license, any licensee is indebted to the city
and is more than sixty (60) days in arrears.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Temporary Removal: If the removal of the licensee from the police
towing licensee list is temporary, such temporary removal shall not be for more
than thirty (30) days at any one time.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Pending Suspension/Removal: If the chief of police, or designee,
determines the alleged offense does not constitute an immediate threat to the
health, safety or welfare of the public, the chief of police shall provide the
licensee with written notice at least fifteen (15) days prior to the effective
date of the temporary or permanent removal by delivering said notice to the
licensee's place of business. Said written notice shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The effective date of the removal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whether the removal is temporary or permanent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The allegations which form the basis of the removal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The actions, if any, the licensee may take to prevent the removal
from occurring.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The procedure that the licensee must follow to request a hearing to
appeal the removal.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Immediate Suspension/Removal: If the chief of police, or designee,
determines that a licensee presents an immediate threat to the health, safety
or welfare of the public, or if the licensee has not provided proof of valid
insurance in the amounts required by ordinance, the chief of police shall
provide the licensee with written notice that the licensee is being removed
from the police towing licensee list immediately. Said written notice shall be
delivered to the licensee's place of business on the first day the removal is
effective and shall state:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â That the removal is effective immediately.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whether the removal is temporary or permanent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The allegations which form the basis of the removal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The actions, if any, the licensee may take to be reinstated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The procedure that the licensee must follow to request a hearing to
appeal the removal.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Hearing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If a hearing is requested, the mayor, or the mayor's designee, shall
act as the hearing officer. The hearing shall be informal and provide both
sides with the opportunity to present all evidence relevant to the removal. The
hearing officer shall issue a written decision based upon a preponderance of
the presented evidence within seven (7) days of the hearing. The opinion shall
be sent to the licensee's business address with a copy retained in the
licensee's application file at the police department. If the decision favors
the licensee, the hearing officer shall notify the police department so that
license towing privileges may be reinstated as soon as possible. The city or
the licensee may contest the decision of the hearing officer in any manner
provided by law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A licensee must request a hearing by calling the mayor's office
within ten (10) days of receiving a notice of suspension or removal and
scheduling a hearing. Leaving a message with the mayor's office will not
satisfy this requirement. The mayor's office must provide a time for the
hearing that is within seventy two (72) hours of the request, provided there is
one complete business day within the seventy two (72) hour time period. If
there is no complete city business day in the seventy two (72) hour period, the
hearing shall be held on the first city business day after the seventy two (72)
hour time period. If the licensee is unavailable at the time provided by the
city, the city shall not be bound by the seventy two (72) hour time period, and
the removal will not be stayed. If the city is unable to provide a hearing time
within the applicable time period, all action on the removal shall be stayed
until the hearing. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-10: FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Towing: Fees for towing will be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code for the primary relocation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Vehicle Storage:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Fees for vehicle storage will be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code for all vehicles. The first twenty four (24) hours of
storage will be at no charge.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The only exception to this will be for police long term storage due
to forfeiture/seizures which will be capped at that fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code, to include the original tow from the date and time of
arrest.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Road Service: Road service (jump starts and tire changes) and towing of
city police vehicles to either a city facility or designated repair shop will
be made free of charge, as is provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
4-9-11: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tow trucks will not have any signs indicating city affiliation. The
city reserves the right to contract for additional tow trucks with other
companies during special situations such as snow emergencies, vehicles beyond
the ability of the towing company due to size or weight, etc.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Proper demeanor towards the public will be maintained at all times. All
complaints received will be investigated by the police department and may
result in the towing company being suspended from the list. Excessive or
repeated complaints will not be tolerated. (Ord. 2006-O-19, 6-6-2006)
4-9-12: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. (Ord.
2006-O-19, 6-6-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PRIVATE SCAVENGERS; REFUSE COLLECTION
SECTION:
4-10-1: Private Scavengers Authorized
4-10-2: Residential Scavengers
4-10-3: Commercial/Institutional Scavengers
4-10-4: Eligibility For License; Vehicle Licenses
4-10-5: Application For License; Approval Or Denial
4-10-6: License Fee
4-10-7: Term Of License
4-10-8: Indemnity, Bond And Insurance
4-10-9: Revocation Of License
4-10-10: Equipment Requirements
4-10-11: Service Standards
4-10-12: Collection Days And Hours
4-10-13: Receptacles
4-10-14: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
4-10-15: Penalty
4-10-1: PRIVATE SCAVENGERS AUTHORIZED:
The mayor may, from time to time, upon application, grant a license to any
qualified person, firm or corporation to remove and dispose of refuse, rubbish,
animal and vegetable matter, swill and offal, usually known as garbage
(hereinafter "garbage"), and discarded materials from hotels, restaurants,
cafes, and other places in the business districts or residential districts, not
otherwise provided by the city, or for the removal and disposal of ashes and
cinders, and for the removal and disposal of such other refuse and waste, where
such matter may accumulate. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-2: RESIDENTIAL SCAVENGERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required: No person, firm or corporation shall carry on the
business of private scavenger or shall be permitted to remove and dispose of
garbage, or any other matter enumerated in section
4-10-1 of this chapter, from any residential property, including multi-family
residences, without first having obtained a scavenger license as set forth in
this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â One License Only; Contract For Service:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Only one scavenger license shall be issued for the purpose of
performing refuse collection (other than construction materials) from all
residential property, including multi-family residences (hereinafter
"residential scavenger license"). That person, firm or corporation shall be
awarded a contract or franchise with the city and shall be solely permitted to
remove and dispose of garbage, or any other matter enumerated in section
4-10-1 of this chapter, upon obtaining a residential scavenger license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The residential scavenger license shall be issued to the person,
firm or corporation which has been awarded the contract or franchise for the
collection or removal of all residential waste and shall also be subject to all
conditions established in said contract. Said contract or franchise shall be
subject to the approval of the city council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â License Fee: The city may, by ordinance, waive any license fee
otherwise required hereunder and/or impose additional or different fees for the
granting and administration of said license. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-3: COMMERCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL SCAVENGERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required: No person, firm or corporation shall carry on the
business of private scavenger or shall be permitted to remove and dispose of
garbage, or any other matter enumerated in section
4-10-1 of this chapter, from any business or any commercial/institutional
facility without first having obtained a scavenger license as set forth in this
section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â One License Only; Contract For Service:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Only one scavenger license shall be issued for the purpose of
performing refuse collection (other than construction materials) from any
business or any commercial/institutional facility (hereinafter "commercial/
institutional scavenger license"). That person, firm or corporation shall be
awarded a contract or franchise with the city and shall be solely permitted to
remove and dispose of garbage, or any other matter enumerated in section
4-10-1 of this chapter, upon obtaining a commercial/institutional scavenger
license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The commercial/institutional scavenger license shall be issued to
the person, firm or corporation which has been awarded the contract or
franchise for the collection or removal of all waste from any business or
commercial or institutional facility and shall also be subject to all
conditions established in said contract. Said contract shall be subject to the
approval of the city council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â License Fee: The city may, by ordinance, waive any license fee
otherwise required hereunder and/or impose additional or different fees for the
granting and administration of said license. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-4: ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE; VEHICLE LICENSES:
The scavenger licenses granted hereunder shall only be issued to a qualified
applicant who presents evidence that it has adequate and proper equipment and
approved disposal facilities. Each licensee will be issued vehicle licenses as
are necessary. Such licenses shall be provided by the city and displayed on
each vehicle of the licensee used in the city. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All applications for scavenger licenses shall be made pursuant to the
terms of this chapter and such further requirements as may be directed by the
mayor. The mayor, or his designee, shall review the application and approve or
deny each such license. No such license shall be issued except on the order of
the mayor. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Every application for license to carry on the business of private
scavenger shall state the number of vehicles which the applicant intends to
operate or use in said business. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The mayor shall have the right to deny a scavenger license, and may
require any reasonable proof necessary for assurance as to the applicant's
compliance and ability to comply with the provisions of this chapter and any
other ordinance of the city. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-6: LICENSE FEE:
Every person, firm or corporation applying for a scavenger license shall pay
annually to the city collector the sum as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code for each and every vehicle used in the service. (Ord. 2002-
O-58, 12-3-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
4-10-7: TERM OF LICENSE:
All scavenger licenses will be valid for a period of one year, which shall
begin July 1 of the year for which such license is issued and shall terminate
on June 30 of the following year. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-8: INDEMNITY, BOND AND INSURANCE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Indemnity: By the acceptance of any scavenger license hereunder, the
licensee shall be deemed to have agreed to defend, save, and hold the city, its
mayor, officials, employees, directors, attorneys, and agents, harmless (to the
greatest extent permissible by law) and indemnify the same against any and all
claims, suits, causes of action, losses, and taxes of any kind or nature
whatsoever, resulting from or in any way related to the granting of said
scavenger license, or otherwise related to the execution or implementation of
any contract, franchise or agreement with any scavenger holding such scavenger
license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Bond: No licenses which have been otherwise approved shall be issued
until the applicant furnishes a bond in the penal sum of fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00), executed by a responsible surety company, for the period of the
license, which bond shall guarantee that the scavenger shall perform scavenger
service in accordance with the regulations of the city as ordered from time to
time and shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage resulting from any
failure of the scavenger to so perform.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Insurance: No license shall be issued until the scavenger has filed
with the city clerk a certificate or other evidence that the scavenger carries
insurance of the following types of at least the limits specified below:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Workers' compensation: Statutory, as amended for time to time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Employer's liability: Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Bodily injury lability except automobile: Five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) for each occurrence; one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
aggregate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Property damage liability except automobile: Five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) for each occurrence; one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
aggregate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Automobile bodily injury liability: Five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for each person; one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for each
occurrence.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Automobile property damage: Five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for each occurrence. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The mayor shall have the right to revoke any scavenger license granted
hereunder where the mayor finds that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter and any other ordinance of the city, or violated any
applicable governmental regulation, or improperly procured the license. (Ord.
2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-10: EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Every scavenger must demonstrate that he has adequate and sufficient
trucks and refuse containers to render service to any customer requesting
service in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2002-O-58,
12-3-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All scavenger trucks and refuse containers shall be subject to
inspection and approval by the director of environmental health or his
authorized representatives.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No scavenger truck shall be operated unless it is a modern, enclosed,
leakproof truck with a load packer. Such equipment shall be cleaned at
sufficient frequency to prevent nuisance and insect breeding and shall be
maintained in good condition and repair. All scavenger trucks will be clearly
identified with the name of the scavenger. Lettering must be at least four
inches (4") in height. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Refuse containers 1  must have a tightfitting cover, be in a state of
good repair, be leakproof, free from rust and periodically painted. The name
and phone number of the scavenger must be clearly visible on the container. All
containers must meet all applicable safety standards as established by the
appropriate health official. Covers for the storage of trade and construction
waste shall not be necessary. The use of drums as refuse bins is prohibited.
(Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-10-13 of this chapter.
4-10-11: SERVICE STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Compliance Required: All licensed scavengers shall fully comply with
all terms and provisions of this chapter or any service agreement with the city
or customer.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Disposal Of Refuse: All applicants and licensed scavengers shall
provide evidence that all materials collected are being deposited at a lawful
site designated and maintained for such purposes under the laws of the state.
The city reserves the right to designate specific sites or locations.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Office Telephone; Hours: All licensed scavengers shall maintain an
office telephone for the receipt of service calls or complaints and shall be
available for such calls on all business days from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
until four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M., and between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.
and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Saturdays.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Container Lid Closed; Site Maintenance: All licensed scavengers shall
be responsible for the closing of all container lids after emptying and shall
immediately clean up in a neat and workmanlike manner any refuse that it may
have caused to spill anywhere in the city.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Employees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All licensed scavengers shall furnish capable employees for use in
the crews performing the disposal services.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The scavenger will prohibit any drinking of alcoholic beverages or
use of illegal narcotics by his drivers and crew members while on duty. (Ord.
2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
4-10-12: COLLECTION DAYS AND HOURS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Residential Scavengers: Each scavenger which is allowed to operate
pursuant to the terms of a residential scavenger license shall remove the
garbage, and any other matter enumerated in section
4-10-1 of this chapter, from the residential dwellings in all zoning districts
of the city on Wednesday of each week between the hours of six thirty o'clock
(6:30) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Removal of garbage, or any other matter
enumerated in section
4-10-1 of this chapter, is not to be permitted on any other day of the week, or
time, in the above enumerated zones by such scavenger without a special permit
having been first issued by the mayor, upon application by the scavenger and
for good cause shown.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Commercial/Institutional Scavengers: Each scavenger which is awarded a
commercial/institutional scavenger license shall remove the garbage, or other
matter enumerated in section
4-10-1 of this chapter, in the B-1, B-2 and B-3 zoning districts, and from all
business and commercial or institutional facilities, other than residential
units therein, on Monday through Saturday of each week between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Removal of garbage, or any
other matter enumerated in section
4-10-1 of this chapter, is not permitted at any other day or time by a private
scavenger without a special permit having first been issued by mayor, upon
application by the private scavenger and for good cause shown. (Ord. 2002-O-58,
12-3-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
4-10-13: RECEPTACLES 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Location, Placement And Removal:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In all zoning districts of the city, other than the business zoning
districts, all garbage and refuse receptacles ninety (90) gallons or less in
size, garbage and refuse bags, recycling containers, and all other items of
garbage, trash, refuse, brush, cuttings, or any other matter enumerated in
section
4-10-1 of this chapter, for collection by private scavenger from residential
dwellings shall be placed upon the parkway adjacent to the curbside
(hereinafter "curbside") for collection. However, no person shall place such
items for collection at the curbside sooner than six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on
Tuesday. Further, any recycling containers, garbage, trash or refuse
receptacles, or uncollected items, shall not be allowed to remain at the
curbside later than nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. the immediately following
Wednesday. No owner or occupant of a residential dwelling shall allow said
recycling containers and/or garbage, trash or refuse receptacles, or any other
items of garbage, trash, refuse, cuttings, or any other matter enumerated in
section
4-10-1 of this chapter, to remain at the curbside other than from six o'clock
(6:00) P.M., Tuesday, until nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. the immediately following
Wednesday. Further, all garbage and trash receptacles and recycling containers,
when not at the curbside, shall be maintained or stored by the owner or
occupant of any residential dwelling in such a location as to assure that they
are not visible from the streets or sidewalks adjacent to the residential
dwelling.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the B-1 zoning district of the city and in all zoning districts
in which a business, commercial, or multiple-family use exists, where a refuse
enclosure area, as set forth herein, is provided, all garbage and refuse
receptacles, garbage and refuse bags, recycling containers, and all other items
of garbage, trash, refuse, brush, cuttings, or any other matter enumerated in
section
4-10-1 of this chapter, for collection by private scavenger, which are not
placed at the curb for collection as set forth in subsection A of this section
shall at all times be kept in the enclosed and screened area designated for
their use as required by the terms of the city appearance code (hereinafter
"refuse enclosure area") except when the refuse is actually being collected.
Any scavenger providing service shall place all garbage and refuse receptacles,
recycling containers, and all other items for storage of garbage or trash in
the refuse enclosure area and secure and close any gate or door to such refuse
enclosure area. Further, no garbage or refuse receptacles, recycling
containers, or other items for storage of garbage or trash, or uncollected
items shall be allowed to remain outside the refuse enclosure area or the gate
or door thereto unsecured or open. No scavenger providing service to a premises
or owner or occupant of a premises shall permit any garbage or refuse
receptacles, recycling containers, or other items for storage of garbage or
trash, or uncollected items to remain outside the refuse enclosure area, or the
gate or door thereto unsecured or open.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Failure by any entity providing scavenger services to comply with
any provision of this chapter shall constitute cause for cancellation of the
scavenger's license, in addition to any other penalty hereunder.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notification Stickers: It shall be the duty of every licensed private
scavenger to affix upon each garbage, refuse or trash receptacle and recycling
container in use in the city an adhesive notification sticker advising each
owner and occupant that trash receptacles, recycling containers, trash bags,
refuse, and all items for collection shall not be placed at the curbside
collection point sooner than six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Tuesday evening and
shall be removed from the curbside collection point by nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
the immediately following Wednesday. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-3-2002)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-10-10D of this chapter.
4-10-14: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Should the charges for refuse services be billed by the city, and in
the event that any person receiving such invoice fails to pay such invoice
within twenty (20) days from the date of mailing, such consumer shall pay an
additional charge as follows: An initial late charge of ten percent (10%) of
the bill amount as a late payment penalty; provided, however, that an
additional late charge of five percent (5%) per month of the outstanding bill
shall accrue thereafter as a penalty for failure to make prompt payments.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the invoice for such services is not paid within sixty (60) days
after the rendition of the bill, such services may be discontinued without
further notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are settled. In the
event that refuse service is cut off or terminated to any consumer for failure
to make payment for services required hereunder, refuse services shall be
restored to the consumer only upon payment of the consumer's bill, all accrued
late charges and an administrative fee.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Further, the consumer shall pay any and all fees incurred by the city
in effectuating and administrating the termination of services, including, but
not limited to, administrative fees.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In addition to any sum due to the city under the provisions of this
chapter, any consumer who fails to pay the invoices set forth in this section
within twenty (20) days from the date of mailing shall pay any and all
reasonable attorney fees incurred by the city in enforcing the provisions of
this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â In the event the city deems it necessary to bring any court action to
enforce this chapter, there shall be assessed against any such consumer all
reasonable costs, expenses and attorney fees incurred by the city in bringing
the action in addition to the other sums set forth herein. (Ord. 2002-O-58, 12-
3-2002)
4-10-15: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation, or employee of same, violating
any provision of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 11
LAUNDROMATS AND DRY CLEANERS
SECTION:
4-11-1: License Required
4-11-2: Application For License
4-11-3: License Fee And Expiration
4-11-4: Nontransferability Of License; Posting Required
4-11-5: Sanitary Conditions
4-11-6: Inspections
4-11-7: Responsibility For Compliance
4-11-8: Penalty
4-11-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall operate or conduct a laundry, laundromat,
self-service dry cleaners or dry cleaners in the city without first having
obtained a license therefor. (Ord. 88-O-4, 3-15-1988)
4-11-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses under this chapter shall be made upon forms provided
by the city clerk. The application shall include the following information:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The name, residence address and telephone number of each owner,
partner, or officer if a corporation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The location at which it is proposed the establishment will be
operated.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A copy of the lease or other document indicating permission to operate
the establishment at the proposed address.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all managers of the
proposed establishment. (Ord. 88-O-4, 3-15-1988)
4-11-3: LICENSE FEE AND EXPIRATION:
The fee for a laundry, self-service dry cleaners, laundromat, or dry cleaners
license shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. All such licenses shall expire on May 1 of each year. No
refund shall be granted for any portion of any year. (Ord. 88-O-4, 3-15-1988;
amd. 2009 Code)
4-11-4: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; POSTING REQUIRED:
The license shall not be transferrable. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord. 88-O-4, 3-15-1988)
4-11-5: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Premises: The licensed premises must be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. No refuse of any kind shall be permitted to accumulate on such
premises, and the premises must be kept free from rats, mice and vermin. (Ord.
88-O-4, 3-15-1988)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ any person afflicted with a
contagious disease in the licensed premises. (Ord. 88-O-4, 3-15-1988; amd. 2009
Code)
4-11-6: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the appropriate health official to inspect or cause to
be inspected every establishment licensed under this chapter at least once
every six (6) months. Any violations under the terms of this chapter which are
discovered shall be reported to the chief of police. (Ord. 88-O-4, 3-15-1988)
4-11-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE:
Any proprietor, manager, owner, partner, or officer of any establishment
licensed under this chapter shall be responsible to provide compliance with
this chapter. (Ord. 88-O-4, 3-15-1988)
4-11-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 12
GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES
SECTION:
4-12-1: Title
4-12-2: Permit Required; Location Restrictions
4-12-3: Application For Permit; Fee; Issuance Or Denial
4-12-4: Posting Permit Required
4-12-5: Restrictions On Sales
4-12-6: Penalties
4-12-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be called or referred to as the HIGHWOOD HOUSE/GARAGE SALE
ORDINANCE OF 1997. (Ord. 97-O-25, 7-15-1997)
4-12-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person may conduct or otherwise hold any sale at any residence
within the city, such as a house sale, garage sale, rummage sale, or the like,
unless and until approval for the same has been granted by the issuance of a
permit by the city as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 97-O-25, 7-15-1997)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person may conduct or otherwise hold any such sale at any location
within the B-1, B-2 or B-3 zoning district of the city, except as provided in
subsection C of this section.  (Ord. 97-O-25, 7-15-1997; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Within the B-1 district, such sales may be held and a permit issued
therefor on parcels occupied exclusively by a residential use. In the event a
parcel is occupied by a mixed use of residential and a business use, such a
sale shall be permitted within the residential unit or other enclosed area not
visible from the street. (Ord. 97-O-25, 7-15-1997)
4-12-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city clerk shall provide application forms to request permits
hereunder. Such application forms shall include all reasonable information
needed by city departments to evaluate necessary city planning and response
incident to the conduct of such sale. The application form shall be submitted
to the city clerk at the city hall no later than one week prior to the
commencement of the sale.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each application for a permit for a sale at a residence shall include
full payment of a filing fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any application which is not fully completed and accompanied by full
payment of the required filing fee may be refused for filing by the city clerk
or denied or returned after filing.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The city clerk shall issue a permit for each application hereunder
which has been properly filed, unless the issuance of such permit would violate
any of the provisions of this chapter, any other ordinance of the city, or any
other state, federal or local law or regulation. No permit shall be issued
which, in combination with any other permit, would appear to permit any such
sale or sales to extend more than two (2) consecutive days.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â In the event of inclement weather during the scheduled garage sale
dates, the city manager, or his designee, may allow for a reschedule for the
following weekend. (Ord. 14-O-38, 11-18-2014)
4-12-4: POSTING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any permit issued hereunder shall be prominently posted at the premises where
the sale is to be held where it is clearly visible to the public. The permit
shall be so posted until twenty four (24) hours after the conclusion of the
sale. (Ord. 14-O-38, 11-18-2014)
4-12-5: RESTRICTIONS ON SALES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Number: Not more than one sale shall be conducted at or from any
property within the city within any single calendar year.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duration: No sale shall extend more than two (2) consecutive days.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Items Prohibited From Sale: Items purchased for the purpose of resale
are not allowed to be sold at garage sales. The sale of large quantities of a
particular item is considered the retail sale of goods and is not allowed in
residential districts.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Sale Items: Sale items shall be placed on paved surfaces or inside a
structure. No item shall be visible from the public way prior to a sale or
after a sale has concluded.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Time Of Posting: Signs in connection with or relating to any such
sale shall be posted only during the day(s) such sale is permitted, and for one
and one-half (11/2) hours before and after the actual conduct of such sale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Removal: All such signs shall be promptly removed and properly
disposed of or stored at the end of the last day of any such sale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Prohibited Locations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No signs or any other item shall be posted in, upon, or in any
way connected to any tree, live plant, street or utility pole, official traffic
control device or traffic sign, fire hydrant, or similar structure or item.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No such sign shall be located so as to constitute any hazard to
traffic or so as to obstruct or obscure, in any way, any official traffic
control device.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Size: No such sign shall exceed four (4) square feet nor more than
four feet (4') in height.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Prerequisites To Posting Signs: No person may otherwise post, allow
or cause to be posted within the city any sign for a house sale, garage sale,
rummage sale, or the like, unless a permit has been applied for, and until
approval for the same has been granted by the issuance of a permit by the city
hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Prima Facie Proof: For purposes of this chapter, the responsible
person for the improper posting of signage shall be presumed to be the occupant
(s) of the premises advertised in any posted sign. (Ord. 14-O-38, 11-18-2014)
4-12-6: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation violating any
provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this chapter shall not
release such person from paying any permit fee due and unpaid at the time of
such conviction, nor shall payment of any permit fee prevent prosecution for
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The amount of any permit fee shall be deemed a debt to the city. An
action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent permit fee. All unpaid permit
fees shall be deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The city manager may immediately revoke the permit of any person who
violates any of the terms of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by such
revocation may appeal the same to the city council.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 14-O-38, 11-18-
2014)
CHAPTER 13
COMMERCIAL KENNELS
SECTION:
4-13-1: Definitions
4-13-2: License Required
4-13-3: License Fee And Expiration
4-13-4: Nontransferability Of License
4-13-5: Sanitary Conditions
4-13-6: Revocation Of License
4-13-7: Responsibility For Compliance
4-13-8: Penalty
4-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this chapter, except when the context otherwise requires:
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any lot, premises or portion thereof on which more than four
(4) dogs, cats, and other household domestic animals over four (4) months of
age are kept, or on which more than two (2) such animals are maintained, bred,
cared for or boarded for compensation or kept for sale.
DOG: Any animal, male or female, of any kind, age and description, of the
canine species, which is more than two (2) months of age.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation or association.
PROPRIETOR: The person operating a commercial kennel or in charge of said
business. (Ord. 86-O-11, 4-15-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
4-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a commercial kennel within the
city unless such person shall first have obtained from the city clerk a license
therefor as herein provided. (Ord. 86-O-11, 4-15-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
4-13-3: LICENSE FEE AND EXPIRATION:
The fee for a license shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. All licenses expire on May 1 of each year. No refund shall
be granted for portions of any year. (Ord. 86-O-11, 4-15-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
4-13-4: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
The license shall not be transferable. (Ord. 86-O-11, 4-15-1986)
4-13-5: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
Commercial kennels shall be kept free of dirt and filth and kept in an all
around sanitary condition both inside and outside said establishment and shall
be operated so as not to be offensive to the health, safety and general welfare
of the public, or the residents of the vicinity in which they are located. Upon
written complaint filed with the city council, the chief of police shall make
an inspection to determine the conditions of said business and shall report
same to the city council. (Ord. 86-O-11, 4-15-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
4-13-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked by the mayor whenever it
is determined that any person is operating and maintaining an establishment in
violation of any of the terms and provisions of this chapter. Within ten (10)
days of notice of intent to revoke the license, licensee may request a hearing
before the city council to determine whether the said establishment is in
violation of any of the terms and provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 86-O-11, 4-
15-1986)
4-13-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE:
The proprietor of any commercial kennel shall be responsible to provide
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 86-O-11, 4-15-1986; amd. 2009 Code)
4-13-8: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 14
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS REVIEW
SECTION:
4-14-1: Definitions
4-14-2: Proposal For Telecommunications System
4-14-3: Review Fees
4-14-4: Nonliability Of City
4-14-5: Penalty
4-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person or entity who applies to the city of Highwood for review
of a telecommunications system proposal.
REVIEW FEE: A nonrefundable fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code, or such lesser amount as is provided for herein.
STREET: Any area in the city boundaries established for vehicular or public
access or use and includes, but is not limited to, a highway, avenue, road,
alley, right of way, lane, boulevard, concourse, bridge, tunnel, park, parkway,
waterway, and overhead.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: Any communication equipment or facility of any type
or composition which is proposed to be developed within the city of Highwood,
including any such facility which in any manner is located in or over, or
connected with, to or under, or which utilizes any public way or other city
owned land in any fashion, or which now or hereafter is within the corporate
limits of the city. (Ord. 99-O-06, 1-19-1999; amd. 2009 Code)
4-14-2: PROPOSAL FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM:
Any person or entity that desires to construct, or route through, commence
operation of or modify a telecommunications system with the city shall submit
twelve (12) copies of any written proposal (including any and all attachments)
describing such telecommunications system in detail for review to the office of
the city collector, with a copy of same to the office of the city attorney. The
city collector shall promptly forward such information to the mayor. The mayor
shall forward the information and application to such city departments and
staff as he may deem appropriate for review of same and negotiation of
modifications as may be required. All proposals shall include all the
information requested in a form provided by the city collector's office. The
city may request additional information, from time to time, from the applicant
and may, in the course of review, arrange for appropriate professional
services, which may include engineering, consulting, or legal. Upon completion
of the review by the designated city staff, the staff shall prepare a written
recommendation to the city council for its consideration and final action. No
person or entity may construct, commence operation of or modify a
"telecommunications system", as defined in section
4-14-1 of this chapter, without obtaining approval of the city authorities as
provided herein. (Ord. 99-O-06, 1-19-1999)
4-14-3: REVIEW FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fee Imposed: Upon submission of the proposal to the city collector's
office, the applicant shall pay the review fee to reimburse the city for the
administrative costs and any professional fees associated with the review of
the proposal, or the negotiation of any agreement or modifications for
implementation of same. In the event the city's costs to review the proposal
exceed the review fee, the city shall notify the applicant detailing said
additional costs, and the applicant shall pay such additional fees at such
times as are required by the city collector.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Waiver Of Fee: The city council may waive or modify the review fee for
any proposal as to which the city council determines will require minimum
review by the city. An applicant may request a waiver or modification of the
review fee by submitting a request in writing to the city stating the reasons
for such waiver or modification.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Proposal Modification Fee: Any change or modification to the proposal
submitted for review by an applicant following the inception of the review
process may require, in the discretion of the city, that the applicant pay to
the city an additional review fee hereunder. Any such additional costs will be
identified as described in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 99-O-06, 1-19-
1999)
4-14-4: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â This chapter or the review of any telecommunications system proposal or
the collection of a review fee shall not be construed to create or hold the
city responsible or liable for any damage to persons or property by reasons of
any inspection, reinspection or review authorized herein or failure to inspect,
reinspect or review, nor shall the approval of any application authorized
herein constitute any representation, guarantee or warranty of any kind by, nor
create any liability upon, the city or any official, agent or employee thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Further, this chapter or the review of the telecommunications systems
proposal or the collection of the review fee shall not be construed to create
or imply any agreement by the city to grant the application or permit for the
proposed telecommunications system. (Ord. 99-O-06, 1-19-1999)
4-14-5: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation, or employee of same, violating
any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 15
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS
(Rep. by Ord. 19-O-04, 4-16-2019)
CHAPTER 16
LANDSCAPERS
SECTION:
4-16-1: License Required
4-16-2: Landscaper Vehicles
4-16-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any landscaper to provide landscape maintenance
services within the city without first obtaining a license as required pursuant
to this title and chapter. The fee for the license shall be as set forth in
title 3, chapter 2, article A of this code, per license year or fraction
thereof, and shall accompany the application. A license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be valid only during the license year for which it was issued. No
license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable, and any attempt
to transfer a license shall result in the automatic and immediate expiration of
the license. (Ord. 10-O-03, 2-16-2010)
4-16-2: LANDSCAPER VEHICLES:
No landscaper may park its vehicles on the streets of the city unless the
landscaper shall have obtained a license and identified each such vehicle in
its application pursuant to this chapter. Each vehicle of a licensed landscaper
shall display the identifying information required pursuant to this code in
order to be entitled to be parked on a city street. (Ord. 10-O-03, 2-16-2010)
CHAPTER 17
VIDEO GAMING PROHIBITION
SECTION:
4-17-1: Authority
4-17-2: Definitions
4-17-3: Prohibition
4-17-4: Enforcement
4-17-5: Penalties
4-17-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is promulgated pursuant to the authority to prohibit "video
gaming" (as defined below) in the city, as contained in 230 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 40/27, all as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 1-11-
2011)
4-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as follows:
VIDEO GAMING: The ownership, placement, maintenance, operation or use of a
"video gaming terminal" (as defined herein) in a licensed establishment,
licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans establishment, as said
terms are defined within the video gaming act 1  (hereinafter the
"establishment(s)"), within the city.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon insertion
of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including,
but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized by the
Illinois gaming board, utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which
the player may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The
term does not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens
or is for amusement purposes only. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 1-11-2011)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
4-17-3: PROHIBITION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Video gaming is prohibited within the city of Highwood.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A video gaming license issued by the state of Illinois is not effective
within the city of Highwood.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A prohibited video gaming terminal shall be immediately removed by the
owner or operator from the establishment(s).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation to permit or
allow any video gaming terminal to be played or remain within any establishment
(s) within the city of Highwood. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 1-11-2011)
4-17-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Authorized representatives of the city of Highwood police department, including
sworn peace officers and other individuals as the chief or deputy chief of the
city's police department may designate from time to time, may make inspections
of the premises of establishment(s) or any premises where there is cause to
believe video gaming occurs, for the purpose of determining whether a violation
of this chapter is taking place. These inspection rights are in addition to any
other statutory or common law powers of the city's police department. (Ord.
2011-O-01, 1-11-2011)
4-17-5: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In lieu of prosecution under subsection A of this section, any person,
firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter may be subject
to prosecution under the gambling provisions of the Illinois criminal code, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1 et seq. (Ord. 2011-O-01, 1-11-2011)
CHAPTER 18
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
4-18-1: Definitions
4-18-2: Aggregation Of Electrical Load
4-18-3: Opt Out Program
4-18-4: Adoption Of Plan Of Operation And Governance For The Electricity
Aggregation Program
4-18-5: Solicitation Of Bids
4-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
ACT: The Illinois power agency act, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3855/1-92, as
may be amended from time to time.
CUSTOMER: Recipients of residential and small commercial retail electric loads
as provided in the act.
ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM: A program pursuant to the act for the
aggregation of residential and small commercial retail electric loads located
within the corporate limits of the city that provides customers with the
opportunity to opt out of participating in that program as provided in the act.
(Ord. 12-O-17, 4-3-2012)
4-18-2: AGGREGATION OF ELECTRICAL LOAD:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The corporate authorities of the city are authorized to operate an
electricity aggregation program pursuant to the act and for that purpose may
solicit bids and enter into service agreements to facilitate the sale and
purchase of electricity and related services and equipment for those loads
aggregated pursuant to the electricity aggregation program as provided in the
act.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The corporate authorities of the city may exercise the authority to
operate the electricity aggregation program jointly with any other municipality
or county and, in combination with two (2) or more municipalities or counties,
may initiate a process to jointly authorize the electricity aggregation program
by a majority vote of each particular municipality or county as required by the
act. (Ord. 12-O-17, 4-3-2012)
4-18-3: OPT OUT PROGRAM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The electricity aggregation program shall operate as an opt out program
whereby customers who do not wish to participate in the electricity aggregation
program may opt out pursuant to the act.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city manager or his designee, on behalf of the city, shall fully
inform customers in advance, as provided in the act, that customers have the
right to opt out of the electricity aggregation program. The disclosure
provided to the customers shall comply with the requirements of the act and
shall prominently state all charges to be made and shall include full
disclosure of the cost to obtain service pursuant to section 16-603 of the act,
how to access service, and the fact that service under section 16-603 of the
act is available to customers without penalty if they are currently receiving
service under section 16-603 of the act.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Upon notification from any customer that the customer wishes to opt out
of the electricity aggregation program, that customer shall be excluded from
the electricity aggregation program.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Except for those customers who opt out of the electricity aggregation
program pursuant to this section and the act, the electricity aggregation
program shall automatically apply for each person owning, occupying,
controlling, or using an electrical load center proposed to be aggregated in
the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 12-O-17, 4-3-2012)
4-18-4: ADOPTION OF PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE FOR THE ELECTRICITY
AGGREGATION PROGRAM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The corporate authorities of the city, with the assistance from the
Illinois power agency as required pursuant to the act, shall develop and
approve a plan of operation and governance for the electricity aggregation
program.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Before adopting the plan of operation required under subsection A of
this section and the act, the corporate authorities shall hold at least two (2)
public hearings on the proposed plan. Before the first public hearing, the
corporate authorities shall publish notice of the hearings once a week for two
(2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The
notice shall summarize the plan of operation and state the date, time, and
location of each hearing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The plan of operation and governance for the electricity aggregation
program shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Provide for universal access to all applicable residential customers
and equitable treatment of applicable residential customers,
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Describe demand management and energy efficiency services to be
provided to each class of customers, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Meet any requirements established by law concerning aggregated
service offered pursuant to the act. (Ord. 12-O-17, 4-3-2012)
4-18-5: SOLICITATION OF BIDS:
The process for soliciting bids for electricity and other related services and
awarding proposed agreements for the purchase of electricity and other related
services for the electricity aggregation program shall be conducted pursuant to
the act. (Ord. 12-O-17, 4-3-2012)
CHAPTER 19
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
4-19-1: Purpose; Jurisdiction
4-19-2: License Required
4-19-3: Exemptions
4-19-4: License And Fee Supplemental To Others
4-19-5: Definitions
4-19-6: Application
4-19-7: Forms For Licenses, Permits
4-19-8: All Licenses To Be Signed By Clerk
4-19-9: Investigation Of Application
4-19-10: License Approval/Denial
4-19-11: License Term And Expiration
4-19-12: License Fees
4-19-13: Change Of Location
4-19-14: No Attachment Or Assignment Of License
4-19-15: Posting License
4-19-16: Temporary Business License
4-19-17: Business Not To Be In Violation Of Applicable Laws; Nuisances
4-19-18: Enforcement Of Other Ordinances; Disclaimer
4-19-19: Authority Of City To Make Inspections
4-19-20: Denial, Suspension, And Revocation Procedure; Hearing
4-19-21: Penalty
4-19-1: PURPOSE; JURISDICTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Because each commercial establishment located in the city or doing
business in the city is a basic part of and affects the physical and economic
well being of the city, these commercial establishments shall in all respects
be in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter. This chapter is
designed to provide for the means whereby the city may render the necessary
inspections and services to commercial establishments and commercial areas in
order to promote, protect, and safeguard the public health, safety, and welfare
of the citizens of the city, monitor economic development and enable the
maintenance of accurate records of commercial establishments located and
carrying on commercial activities or commerce within the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The commercial establishments so registered may or may not have their
principal place of business located within the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The business license fees provided for herein are not intended to
license any business or profession that is not subject to the city's licensing
authority nor are they to be construed as an endorsement of the competency or
skill of any individual, company, corporation or other entity. (Ord. 12-O-38,
8-21-2012)
4-19-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, engage in, maintain, operate,
carry on or manage in any way any business or activity or occupation, for any
period of time and at any time without first obtaining a license for such
business, activity or occupation and paying the required fee. Each outlet,
branch, location, or place of business within the municipal limits of the city
shall be licensed independently. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The foregoing licensing and registration requirements are not applicable to any
business which is specifically and expressly preempted from local regulation
and control by state or federal law. However, when a business which is
preempted from local control is operated as a portion of a commercial
establishment which also engages in business activities which are not so
preempted, the registration fee shall apply to the entire commercial
establishment. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-4: LICENSE AND FEE SUPPLEMENTAL TO OTHERS:
The licenses and fees required by this chapter shall be in addition to any
vehicle license, building permit, inspection fees or any other licenses or fees
that may be required by any other provision of this code or any city ordinance.
(Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-5: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, terms used herein are defined as follows:
BUSINESS: Any for profit or not for profit entity, including, without
limitation, any sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, joint venture,
association, franchisee, or cooperative that leases or owns space within a
building, located in the city for the primary purpose of carrying on such
business. Businesses that operate from distinct spaces or buildings with
separate addresses shall be deemed to be separate businesses regardless if such
businesses are owned or operated by the same sole proprietorship, partnership,
corporation, joint venture, association, franchisee or cooperative.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Persons operating, conducting, doing, carrying on,
causing to be carried on, or pursuing any business, profession, occupation,
trade, pursuit or activity for the purpose of profit.
LICENSE: A privilege granted by the city after the fulfillment of all
conditions precedent that are expressly provided herein. Every license granted
by the city pursuant to this chapter, and every renewal thereof, shall be
purely a personal privilege, shall not constitute property, and shall not
otherwise be construed in any manner to create any other right or interest to
such license.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust, or
any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in any
establishment to maintain and manage its operation.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust, or
any other legal entity, except for such person or persons as may be organized
as an Illinois not for profit corporation, or any governmental body properly
organized under the law of the state of Illinois.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: The premises (except a personal residence), main business
location or an outlet, branch or other location thereof, temporary or
otherwise, to which the public is expressly or impliedly invited for the
purpose of transacting of business. In the event there is no such location, but
the business is transacted at the location of the buyer, then the general sales
area shall be considered a place of business. Place of business shall not
include a business conducted at a personal residence. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-6: APPLICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall
be made in writing to the city manager in the absence of provision to the
contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant (and in the
case of a partnership, the name and addresses of all partners and in the case
of a corporation, its president, secretary, and registered agent), the type or
nature of the business, the location or premises to be used, if any, federal
income tax number, Illinois business tax number, after hours emergency contact
information, the time covered and the fees to be paid. Each application shall
contain any additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of
the city officials in issuing the requested license or fulfilling the purposes
of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give false information
or falsely affirm or swear to any matter in the application for a license or
obtain a license by fraudulent means, or to display a fictitious or
fraudulently altered license or permit, or otherwise to misuse any license. The
corporate authorities shall, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
suspend or revoke the license of any person, firm, or corporation who violates
the provisions of this section and any suspension or revocation shall be in
addition to any and all other penalties hereinafter provided.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If at any time during the term of any license the information required
by this section changes in any significant way, such as, but not limited to, a
change of address or the conviction of an applicant of a felony, then the
applicant, within five (5) days after such change of information, shall provide
the updated or revised information to the city manager. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-
2012)
4-19-7: FORMS FOR LICENSES, PERMITS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the city manager. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-8: ALL LICENSES TO BE SIGNED BY CLERK:
Each license or permit shall bear the signature of the mayor and the city
clerk, or facsimile thereof, in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-9: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION:
After receipt of an application for any license or renewal of a license, the
city manager shall cause an investigation to be made: a) to secure information
as to the applicant's character, b) to ascertain whether the applicant has
complied with all of the requirements of all applicable laws, ordinances, and
regulations, and c) in the case of a license renewal, to ascertain whether the
business, activity or occupation has been operated or conducted properly or has
been subject of complaints or otherwise has been operated or conducted in a
manner substantially adverse to the best interests of the city, the city's
residents, and the customers or clients of such business, activity or
occupation. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-10: LICENSE APPROVAL/DENIAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If the applicant's application is found to be satisfactory, the city
manager shall forward the application to the city clerk to issue the license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant's application is
found to be unsatisfactory due to an incomplete application or pursuant to
conditions for denial in this chapter, the application shall be denied. The
city manager or his/her designee shall promptly notify the applicant that the
application has been denied and provide the applicant with the reason(s) for
the denial. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-11: LICENSE TERM AND EXPIRATION:
All licenses shall be valid for a period not exceeding one year. Every license
shall expire on January 31 following the date of its issue, unless otherwise
provided by this code. The city manager shall endeavor to notify each licensee
of the impending expiration of that licensees' license, which notice shall be
provided at least three (3) weeks prior to the date of expiration of the
license; provided, however, that under no circumstances shall the failure of
the city manager to make any such notification or of the licensee to receive
any such notification excuse the licensee from the obligation to seek renewal
of its license. Nor shall any such failure create any right in the licensee to
the continuation or reissuance of any license. Nor shall any such failure be a
defense in any action related to the operation of a business, activity or
occupation without a license. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-12: LICENSE FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fee: There is imposed on each business establishment required to
register under the provisions of this chapter a nonrefundable annual business
registration fee as set forth in section
3-2A-1 of this code, payable to the city. The required fee shall be paid when a
business registration application is submitted or renewed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Penalty: Any licensee who fails to pay the fees and charges for the
renewal of a license or permit by January 31 shall be charged a penalty of
twenty five dollars ($25.00). The penalty shall be paid at the time of renewal
of the license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Proration: When application for an annual license is made after July 31
of the current license year, the license for the remainder of the year shall be
issued upon payment of one-half (1/2) the annual fee.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Use Of Fees: Except as may otherwise be prescribed by action of the
city council or in the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees paid for
registration of a business shall be added to the general corporate fund of the
city to reimburse said fund for the costs incurred in processing said
registration.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â No Rebates Or Refunds: In no event shall any rebate or refund be made
of any business regulation certificate of permit fee, or part thereof, by
reason of death or departure of the certificate holder or licensee; nor shall
any rebate or refund be made by reason of the nonuse of the business regulation
certificate or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the regulated
establishment, business, or activity. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-13: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A license shall permit the operation only in the premises described in the
application and license. The location of any licensed business or occupation,
or of any permitted act, may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice thereof
is given to the city manager, in the absence of any provision to the contrary;
provided that the location complies with building, zoning, and all other
requirements of city ordinances and state law. No new or additional fee shall
be charged for filing such notice. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-14: NO ATTACHMENT OR ASSIGNMENT OF LICENSE:
No license issued hereunder shall be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable, transferable or assignable, voluntarily
or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. As used
herein, to "alienate" or to "transfer" a license shall include the giving,
selling or conveyance of a license or of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
total number of shares of stock, or securities convertible into stock, of a
corporation or entity that holds a license. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-15: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-16: TEMPORARY BUSINESS LICENSE:
Provided that there is no danger to the public health and safety, and further
provided that a temporary or permanent occupancy permit has been issued to a
particular business for a particular location within the city, a temporary
business license may also be issued in accordance with procedures established
herein and any other applicable administrative regulations of the city. A
temporary or permanent occupancy permit does not permit the operation of any
business required to have a business license under the provisions of this
chapter. A person seeking a temporary business license must apply in writing to
the city manager setting forth with specificity the reasons why a temporary
business license should be issued, and the hardship or other conditions which
justify such issuance. No temporary business license shall be issued hereunder
for a period in excess of forty five (45) days. It is the intent of this
provision that a temporary business license may, under appropriate
circumstances, be issued, but that temporary licenses will only be issued where
the deficiencies in the application are minor in nature and can be rectified
within a set timetable. The city manager shall be empowered to establish
necessary conditions to make certain that before the expiration of the
temporary business license the applicant shall be in a position to fully comply
with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances, rules
and regulations of the city. The city manager in granting a temporary business
license shall specifically indicate in writing the length of time for which
such license is applicable. It shall be the responsibility of the recipient of
the temporary business license to rectify all deficiencies prior to the
expiration of said temporary business license, and the failure to do so may
constitute sufficient grounds to deny issuance of a permanent business license.
(Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-17: BUSINESS NOT TO BE IN VIOLATION OF APPLICABLE LAWS; NUISANCES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business and no
permit shall be issued for any thing or act, if the premises and buildings to
be used for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the
ordinances of the city and the laws and regulations of the state. No license or
permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any
act which would involve a violation of the zoning ordinances of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No business or establishment, whether or not regulated, shall be so
conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact; and no building,
vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof, shall be used, kept,
maintained, or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as
to occasion any nuisance, or so to be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-18: ENFORCEMENT OF OTHER ORDINANCES; DISCLAIMER:
Any business issued a registration must still comply with all other city
ordinances and codes. By issuing a registration the city has not waived the
full enforcement of any other ordinances nor is the possession of a valid
registration a defense of any violation. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-19: AUTHORITY OF CITY TO MAKE INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance, or are reasonably necessary thereto to secure compliance with any
ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of
the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make an inspection at any reasonable time
that admission is requested.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the city whose
business is governed by the provision to give any authorized officer or
employee of the city requesting the same, sufficient samples of any materials
or commodity for an analysis upon request.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, it shall be
grounds for the revocation of the license of any licensed proprietor of any
licensed business in the city if the proprietor or any employee or agent of the
proprietor refuses to permit any officer or employee who is authorized to make
an inspection or take a sample of the commodity, or interferes with an officer
or employee while in the performance of his duty in making an inspection,
provided that no license shall be revoked on these grounds unless written
demand is made upon the licensee or person that the inspection or sample is
desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or to obtain the
sample. Revocation proceedings under this section shall be conducted in the
manner set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-20: DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION PROCEDURE; HEARING:
No license, permit or certificate shall be granted until the application
procedures and investigation required by this chapter are completed. Any
application for a license or permit may be denied or an existing license or
permit may be suspended or revoked in accordance with this section for the
violation by the applicant, licensee, or permittee of any ordinance provision,
law or regulation relating, directly or indirectly, to the license or permit,
the subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied. The denial,
suspension, or revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed and shall be
in accordance with the procedures set forth below. However, in any situation
where the public health, safety, morals, or welfare is immediately threatened
by the continued operation of any business, the city manager shall be and is
hereby authorized to order the immediate cessation of business and/or the
closing of the premises, and the immediate suspension of any business
regulation certificate, license, or permit for a period not to exceed twenty
one (21) days pending the hearing required below. If the city manager finds any
cause listed in subsection F of this section, he shall recommend to the city
council the denial, suspension, or revocation of the license or permit pending
the hearing required below.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Revocation Of License Or Permit; Appointment Of Hearing Officer: The
mayor is hereby authorized to deny a license or permit application, and to
revoke or suspend any license or permit, pursuant to the procedures set forth
in this chapter. The mayor is further authorized to appoint a hearing officer
to conduct any hearing required by this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice Of Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Within three (3) days after the mayor has denied a license or
permit, the city manager shall notify, by mail, the applicant of the action
taken by the mayor. Such notice is deemed received by the applicant, licensee,
or permittee two (2) days after mailing. If the applicant desires a hearing on
the denial, he must then notify the mayor by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, within seven (7) days of the mailing of the notice
sent by the city manager.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whenever the mayor receives a request for suspension or revocation
of a license or permit, the licensee or permittee shall be notified, by mail,
by the city manager. Such notice shall be deemed received by the applicant,
licensee, or permittee two (2) days after mailing. Such notice shall indicate
the alleged basis for the suspension and/or revocation and the date, time, and
place where the mayor or a hearing officer appointed by the mayor will hold a
hearing thereon. The mayor or the hearing officer will hear the request for
suspension or revocation and render a written recommendation to the city
council at their next meeting after the conclusion of the hearing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the mayor has received a proper
request for a hearing on the denial of a license, certificate or permit, the
mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the
business regulation certificate, license or permit should be denied. Within ten
(10) days after the mayor receives a request for the suspension and/or
revocation of a license, certificate or permit, the mayor shall call a hearing
on such suspension and/or revocation. Any such hearing shall be started no
earlier than five (5) days, nor later than fourteen (14) days, after the call
has been made.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notice Of Hearing: Notice of the hearing for denial, suspension, or
revocation of a license, business regulation certificate or permit shall be
given to the applicant, licensee, or permittee, in writing, setting forth
specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time, date, and place of the
hearing pursuant to subsection B of this section. The notice shall be sent to
the applicant, certificate holder, or permittee at his last known address or at
the address indicated on the latest application for a business license or
permit.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Hearing Procedures: The hearing may be convened by the mayor, or by a
hearing officer appointed by the mayor. At the hearing, the city attorney shall
present the complaint and evidence and shall represent the city. The applicant,
certificate or license holder, or permittee shall be permitted counsel and
shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. The
hearing may be continued from time to time for good cause shown. The formal and
technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the conduct of the hearing.
Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a type commonly
relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. The
mayor or the hearing officer appointed by the mayor shall evaluate the evidence
and present its written recommendation to the city council at the next meeting
of the city council after the conclusion of the hearing. The city council shall
take final action on the mayor's or the hearing officer's recommendation.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Causes For Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation: Business regulation
certificates, licenses and permits issued under the ordinances of the city,
unless otherwise provided, may be denied, suspended, or revoked for any of the
following causes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license, certificate or permit, or the display of a
fraudulently altered license, certificate or permit, or the misuse of any
license, certificate or permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any violation by the license or certificate holder or permittee of
ordinance provisions or laws relating directly or indirectly to the license,
certificate or permit, the subject matter of the license, certificate or
permit, or the business occupied;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Conviction of the licensee, certificate holder or permittee of any
felony or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Failure of the licensee, certificate holder or permittee to pay any
fee, fine or penalty owing to the city;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling by the city, or any
interference with a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the
performance of his duties in making such inspection, as provided for in this
chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Denial, suspension, or revocation by any other municipality or by
the state of Illinois or any regulatory body of the state of Illinois of a
comparable license or permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Failure to comply with city building codes, property maintenance
codes or appearance codes; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Excessive consumer complaints regarding the business or the owners
or managers of the business or a related business.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Reapplication For License Or Permit: If an application for a license or
permit has been denied, or a license or permit has been revoked, the applicant
or holder may not seek another license or permit from the city earlier than
twelve (12) months after the final denial or revocation.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Suspension: A license or permit that has been suspended may be
reinstated by the city upon proper request by the licensee or permittee, if the
terms and conditions established by the city council for such reinstatement are
met. Upon request to the city by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the applicant, licensee, or permittee, the mayor will consider
the request of the applicant, licensee, or permittee at a noticed hearing. The
city attorney may present information against or in support of such request at
the hearing. The mayor will present its recommendation to the city council at
the next regular meeting. The city council shall take final action on the
recommendation. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
4-19-21: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense or jail
sentence as deemed appropriate, but not greater than six (6) months. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 12-O-38, 8-21-2012)
CHAPTER 20
SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
4-20-1: Definition
4-20-2: Registration Required; Exemptions
4-20-3: Application For Registration
4-20-4: Registration Fee And Expiration
4-20-5: Regulations
4-20-6: Penalty
4-20-1: DEFINITION:
A secondhand dealer shall include any person, corporation, firm, or corporation
whose business includes buying, selling, trading, taking in pawn, accepting for
sale on consignment, accepting for auctioning or auctioning secondhand tangible
personal property. (Ord. 16-O-41, 8-16-2016)
4-20-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of "secondhand dealer" as defined in section
4-20-1 of this chapter, without being registered as a secondhand dealer in the
manner hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 16-O-41, 8-16-2016)
4-20-3: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
secondhand dealer shall apply for registration to the Highwood city clerk. Upon
the filing of such application in proper form and the payment of the
registration fee, the chief electrical inspector or city clerk shall register
the applicant as a secondhand dealer and shall issue to the applicant a
certificate of registration which will authorize the applicant to engage in
such business for the year in which it is issued. The city clerk shall keep a
suitable record of such registration. (Ord. 16-O-41, 8-16-2016)
4-20-4: REGISTRATION FEE AND EXPIRATION:
The annual fee for registration as a secondhand dealer shall be as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code, and shall run concurrently with the business license fee.
(Ord. 16-O-41, 8-16-2016)
4-20-5: REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No secondhand dealer shall sell, dispose of, or remove from the place
of business any article of secondhand property for thirty (30) calendar days
after receipt of such article of secondhand property or take apart or melt any
article of secondhand property or remodel or rebuild the same until such person
shall make a record of his intention to do so. Such record shall contain a
description of such article of secondhand property and all other data required
under this chapter to be recorded in the secondhand dealer's record of
purchases, sales and exchanges.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All articles of secondhand property received by any secondhand dealer
shall be kept intact at such person's place of business for inspection by
authorized city officials for at least thirty (30) calendar days after receipt
of such article of secondhand property. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary of this section, a secondhand dealer may resell any used digital audio
disk or any used digital video disk five (5) days after acquiring it.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No secondhand dealer shall remove, alter or obliterate any
manufacturer's make, model or serial number, personal identification number, or
identifying marks engraved or etched upon an article of secondhand property
that was purchased by the licensee until after a thirty (30) day holding
period. In addition, no secondhand dealer shall purchase an article of
secondhand property where the manufacturer's make, model or serial number,
personal identification number or identifying marks engraved or etched upon the
article of secondhand property has been removed, altered or obliterated.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No secondhand dealer shall purchase any article of secondhand property
from any minor without the written consent of a parent or legal guardian.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â No secondhand dealer shall purchase any article of secondhand property
from any person who appears to be intoxicated or under the influence of any
drug.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â No secondhand dealer shall purchase any article of secondhand property
from any person known to be a thief or to have been convicted of theft or
burglary, and when any person is found to be the owner of stolen property which
has been bought, such property shall be returned to the owner thereof without
the payment of the amount paid by the secondhand dealer of the stolen property.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No secondhand dealer shall take or receive in pawn or pledge, for money
loaned, or shall buy or otherwise transfer or receive any firearm, ammunition,
stun gun or taser from any person.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â A secondhand dealer shall take or receive in pawn or pledge or shall
buy no jewelry without first documenting the type of jewelry, the metal or
metals of its composition, the weight, the type, cut and shape of each stone,
and a description of all inscriptions. Each ring must be identified by ring
size. All jewelry must be photographed in color.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â A secondhand dealer shall take or receive in pawn or pledge or shall
buy no cell phones or wireless communications devices without the mobile
equipment identifier (MEID), international mobile station equipment identity
(IMEI) or electronic serial number (ESN) of the wireless communication device.
(Ord. 16-O-41, 8-16-2016)
4-20-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined no less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and no more than nine hundred dollars ($900.00) for each separate
offense. (Ord. 16-O-41, 8-16-2016)
CHAPTER 21
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-21-1: Definitions
4-21-2: License Required
4-21-3: License Eligibility
4-21-4: Number Of Licenses
4-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the definitions contained in title 4 of this
Code governing cannabis business establishments apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. (Ord. 19-O-19, 10-1-2019)
4-21-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or entity may operate a cannabis business establishment in the City
without first having obtained a license issued under this chapter and paying
the license fee described in section
3-2A-1 - Fees. (Ord. 19-O-19, 10-1-2019; amd. Ord. 20-O-26, 12-15-2020)
4-21-3: LICENSE ELIGIBILITY:
A cannabis business establishment will only be eligible for a license under
this chapter if (1) it has received the appropriate license to operate from the
appropriate stage agency; (2) it has received all necessary zoning approvals
required under title 11 of this Code to operate within the City limits; and (3)
a license in the respective classification is available under this chapter and
has not already been issued. (Ord. 19-O-19, 10-1-2019)
4-21-4: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The following shall be the number of licenses available to be issued to
cannabis business establishments in the City:
License Classification Number Available
License Classification                         Number Available
Cannabis Dispensary                            1
Cannabis Cultivation Center                    0
Cannabis Craft Grower                          0
Cannabis Infuser                               0
Cannabis Transporter                           0
Cannabis Processor                             0
On-Premises Cannabis Consumption Establishment 0
Â 
(Ord. 19-O-19, 10-1-2019)
CHAPTER 22
TOW TRUCK LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-22-1: License Required
4-22-2: License Eligibility
4-22-3: Reporting Procedures
4-22-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or entity may operate a towing company in the City without first
having obtained a license issued under this chapter and paying the license fee
described in section
3-2A-1 - Fees. (Ord. 21-O-25, 10-19-2021)
4-22-2: LICENSE ELIGIBILITY:
A tow company will only be eligible for a license under this chapter if:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It has received the appropriate license to operate from the appropriate
stage agency;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It has filled out the appropriate application with the City of Highwood
and is current on the annual fee; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â It complies with all reporting procedures in this code. (Ord. 21-O-25,
10-19-2021)
4-22-3: REPORTING PROCEDURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Within thirty (30) minutes after relocating any unauthorized vehicle,
the tow company shall notify the Highwood Police Department through its
dispatching agency to report the make, model, state license plate number,
vehicle identification number, where it was relocated from, and the location to
which the vehicle is relocated.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prior to relocating any unauthorized vehicle, the relocator or operator
shall first obtain written consent from the owner of the private property or
such owner's authorized agent to relocate the specific vehicle in question,
unless the relocator has an agreement with the owner or agent to relocate all
unauthorized vehicles from such owner's private property. Each year, each
relocator shall provide the Highwood police department with a list of all
locations where the relocator has an active contract or other agreement in
place with an owner to remove unauthorized vehicles from such owner's private
property. This list shall clearly indicate whether the contract or agreement
authorizes the relocator or operator to patrol or remove vehicles from the
owner's private property only upon request by the owner.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â When any owner enters into an agreement with a relocator to relocate
unauthorized vehicles from such owner's private parking area, the relocator
shall post a notice of this arrangement prominently at all entrances and exits
to the parking area(s), in clear view, and free from interference from any
natural or manmade objects, and positioned with the bottom of the sign not less
than four feet (4â), and not more than seven feet (7â), above ground level. The
lettering on these signs shall be in prominent type at least three inches high
and in a color that contrasts with the background color of the sign. The sign,
which shall also be legible at night, shall contain the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A general statement indicating who is allowed to park in the area.
The statement may use classes of persons as well as individuals;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A warning that unauthorized vehicles will be relocated;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The name, address and telephone number of the relocator, and of the
location to which the vehicle will be relocated, if different;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The fee charged by the relocator to recover the unauthorized vehicle
and forms of payment accepted. Relocators must accept any of the following
methods of payment for lawful fees and charges: United States currency,
commonly recognized traveler's checks, money orders, cashier's checks,
certified checks, and commonly accepted credit cards and debit cards.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Tow trucks and their operators are prohibited from blocking in a
vehicle and demanding payment without properly securing or hooking a car up for
relocation. Only valid tows may be charged for. Preventing vehicles from
leaving the property will be considered a violation. Vehicles that are secured
for relocation must be transported to the operators' lot for release. The
transport must be conducted in a manner which utilizes properly prescribed
industry equipment for securing of relocated vehicles. Scooping the vehicle, or
just placing it on a flatbed and not properly securing it to the tow vehicle
violates this subsection.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â No unauthorized vehicle may be towed by any relocator or operator from
private property if the vehicle to be relocated contains one or more
passengers.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Pre-tow photographs and on-board cameras.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Prior to relocating any unauthorized vehicle, the relocator or
operator shall take at least one photograph of the unauthorized vehicle which
clearly shows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The date and time the photograph was taken;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The entire vehicle and its location on the date and time the
photograph was taken; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The vehicle's license plate.
The relocator shall maintain the photographs, in electronic or print format,
for a period of two years from the date on which it was taken. The relocator
shall provide the photographs, without charge, to the owner of the relocated
vehicle, upon request.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The relocator shall install on-board cameras on all vehicles used by
the relocator to relocate unauthorized vehicles. These cameras shall clearly
document:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Views of the unauthorized vehicle from the front and rear of the
relocator's vehicle;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Audio from inside the relocator's vehicle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The date and time the video and audio are captured.
The relocator shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Maintain the video records, in electronic format, for a period of
one year from the date on which it was captured;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Upon request by the relocated vehicle's owner, provide an
electronic copy of the video records, without charge, to such owner; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Upon request, make such video records available for inspection by
the Chief of Police or his/her designee.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No relocator shall relocate any vehicle from private property nor shall
any person accept in storage an unauthorized vehicle towed unless at the time
of the relocation the relocator had liability insurance in effect in the name
of such relocator.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person or any officer of any corporation, or any partner
of any partnership:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Relocating or authorizing a relocation of an unauthorized vehicle,
or booting a vehicle or authorizing the booting of a vehicle in violation of
any provision of this Title, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the first offense and
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for the second and each subsequent offense.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The Police Chief is hereby authorized to promulgate rules to enforce
this chapter. (Ord. 21-O-25, 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 23
CHARTERED TRANSPORTATION
SECTION:
4-23-1:Â Â Â  Purpose
4-23-2:Â Â Â  Applicability
4-23-3:Â Â Â  Permit Required
4-23-4:Â Â Â  Application For Permit
4-23-5:Â Â Â  Issuance Of Permit; Conditions Imposed
4-23-6:Â Â Â  Non-Liability Of City
4-23-7:Â Â Â  Violation; Penalty
4-23-1:Â Â Â PURPOSE:
The general purpose of this chapter is to provide for the safe and sound
disembarkment of passengers of privately chartered buses or other
transportation services within the City. (Ord. 24-O-2, 1-2-2024)
4-23-2:Â Â Â APPLICABILITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â This section shall apply to commercial motor vehicles operating as
common carriers when:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The vehicle is engaged in a privately chartered service;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The service includes disembarkation of ten (10) or more passengers
within the City who will not reboard; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The service does not include arrangements for round-trip
transportation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â As used in this section, "privately chartered service" refers to
services wherein a motor vehicle is engaged by a person or entity for specific
transportation purposes, not including services that are part of regular,
publicly available transportation routes or schedules. "Privately chartered
service" does not include courtesy shuttles transporting customers or guests to
or from a fixed location as an incidental service provided by a business. (Ord.
24-O-2, 1-2-2024)
4-23-3:Â Â Â PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to offer or provide privately chartered
services disembarking passengers in the City without a valid chartered
transportation permit issued in accordance with this chapter. A separate permit
shall be required for each motor vehicle providing the services and shall be
valid only for the date, time, and location specified in the permit. (Ord. 24-
O-2, 1-2-2024)
4-23-4:Â Â Â APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The owner, operator, or driver of any motor vehicle to which this
chapter applies which proposes to allow passengers to disembark in the City
shall file an application with the City Manager. The completed application
shall contain all required information set forth in subsection B below and
shall be submitted at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date of the
proposed disembarking date.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The City Manager shall prepare an application form which shall, at a
minimum, require an applicant to provide the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The full name, full address, and telephone numbers of the owner,
operator, and driver of the motor vehicle. The mobile phone number of the
driver of the vehicle shall also be provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers
of the entity or individuals that have either directed, paid for, or financed
the transport of persons who will disembark in the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The full name of all persons that are proposed to disembark in the
City along with copies of IDs for said person to the extent such IDs exist or
are in the possession of the passengers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The name, address, or location in the City where the applicant
proposes to allow passengers to disembark.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The date and time at which the applicant's passengers will disembark
in the City, which shall be from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:
00) P.M. on a Monday through Friday, excluding any federal, state, or City
holidays.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The name and address of all locations from which the passengers will
be picked up for transport to the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers,
and electronic mail addresses of all entities or individuals that shall be
present to meet and receive the passengers disembarking in the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A detailed plan identifying how the disembarking passengers will be
cared for, housed, and fed, upon disembarking in the City. The plan shall be
signed by the entity that agrees to be responsible for providing the actions
detailed in the plan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Any additional information the City Manager may require, provided
that such information is related to the purposes of this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The person submitting an application shall swear or affirm that to the
best of their knowledge and belief the information set forth in such
application is true and correct, and such oath or affirmation shall be attested
to by a person authorized to administer oaths or witness affirmations within
the state or territory where the application is sworn to or affirmed. (Ord. 24-
O-2, 1-2-2024)
4-23-5:Â Â Â ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS IMPOSED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Upon receipt of an application pursuant to this section, the City
Manager, or their designee, shall review the same and undertake a review of the
information contained in the application to verify its truth and authenticity.
If the application is not complete, the City Manager or their designee shall,
in writing, advise the applicant of the additional items needed to complete the
application. Within four (4) calendar days after receiving a completed
application, and upon payment of all required fees or fines due under this
Chapter and compliance with all other applicable requirements of this Chapter,
unless the City Manager has determined that the applicant is disqualified as
provided below, the City shall issue a chartered transportation permit. Such
chartered transportation permit shall contain the approved date, time and
location for disembarkment of passengers and may contain such conditions and
limitations as are necessary to promote safe and sound passenger disembarkment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Upon approval of an application, the City Manager shall inform the
applicant that the application is approved and shall provide the applicant, or
a person designated thereby, with a telephone number to coordinate the arrival
of the motor vehicle in the City.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If the City denies an application made under this section, the City
Manager shall reduce the findings to writing and transmit the same to the
applicant within five (5) calendar days. The applicant may submit a new
application or seek relief from the determination by the City Manager by
submitting a written appeal to the mayor's office. The mayor, or their
designee, shall either grant or deny the appeal in writing within seven (7)
days of receiving the appeal.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Disqualification. The City Manager shall not approve an application for
any person who:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Has supplied materially false or misleading information in
connection with an application under this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Has failed to ensure the care, housing, transportation, or feeding
of any passengers disembarking in the City or otherwise failed to implement or
perform the detailed plan pursuant to the terms of an approved application.
(Ord. 24-O-2, 1-2-2024)
4-23-6:Â Â Â NON-LIABILITY OF CITY:
The City assumes no liability for any aspect of a chartered transportation
service or for the failure or neglect of any person associated with the
operation of such service. (Ord. 24-O-2, 1-2-2024)
4-23-7:Â Â Â VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Complaints alleging any violation of this section for which the City may impose
a fine upon the owner, operator or driver of any motor vehicle to which this
section applies to shall be brought in the name of the City and adjudicated
before an administrative adjudicator. The administrative adjudicator shall
impose a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
passenger. (Ord. 24-O-2, 1-2-2024)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
FOOD SERVICE AND FOOD SERVICE BUSINESSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: State Regulations Adopted
5-1-2: Amendments To Regulations
5-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Pursuant to authority granted by the general assembly of the state set forth in
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-1 and 5/1-3-2, the city hereby adopts by
reference the "State Of Illinois Department Of Public Health Rules And
Regulations Pertaining To The Sanitation Of Food Service Establishments -
1975", except as modified hereinafter, as fully as if set out at length herein.
At least three (3) copies of said public health rules and regulations shall be
kept on file in the office of the city clerk and there kept available for
public use, inspection and examination. (Ord. 78-O-19, 11-17-1978; amd. 2009
Code)
5-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS:
The state department of public health rules and regulations pertaining to the
sanitation of food service establishments, as adopted in section
5-1-1 of this chapter, is hereby amended by adding the following section to
read as follows:
Â Â Â Article X. Penalties
Â Â Â Rule 10.01. Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation that shall violate
any portion of the foregoing rules and regulations pertaining to the sanitation
of food services establishments or who shall violate any of the provisions of
section
5-1-1 of the city code, shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
(Ord. 78-O-19, 11-17-1978; amd. Ord. 99-O-09, 2-16-1999; 2009 Code)
ARTICLE A. RESTAURANTS AND MOBILE FOOD DISPENSING SERVICES
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Definitions
5-1A-2: License And Compliance Required
5-1A-3: Applications For Licenses
5-1A-4: License Fees And Renewals
5-1A-5: Ice Cream Truck Restrictions
5-1A-6: Food And Drink Regulations
5-1A-7: Employees
5-1A-8: Premises Restrictions
5-1A-9: Toilet Facilities
5-1A-10: Water Supply
5-1A-11: Utensils And Equipment
5-1A-12: Litter, Garbage And Waste
5-1A-13: Alcoholic Beverages, Persons Under Influence Prohibited
5-1A-14: Inspections
5-1A-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
5-1A-16: Effect On Other Provisions
5-1A-17: Penalties
5-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ICE CREAM TRUCK: Every motor vehicle in which ice cream, popsicles, ice
sherbets or frozen desserts of any kind are carried for purposes of retail sale
on the city streets.
MOBILE FOOD DISPENSING SERVICE: Any vehicle or device designed or used for the
purpose of preparing or serving food or drink to the public for consumption
including, but not limited to, vehicles, ice cream trucks, ice cream vendors or
food carts.
OPERATOR: Every person, firm, corporation or entity who owns, leases, contracts
or in any other fashion permits a person to operate any mobile food dispensing
service for the purpose of "vending" as defined in this section.
PERSON: Every driver of any "mobile food dispensing service" as defined in this
section.
RESTAURANT: Any place where food or drink is prepared or served to the public
for consumption on the premises or as carryout including any mobile food
dispensing service, including, but not limited to, vehicles or food carts.
VEND OR VENDING: Offering food, drink, ice cream, popsicles, ice sherbets or
frozen desserts for sale from a mobile food dispensing service. (Ord. 2003-O-
55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a restaurant or mobile food dispensing service
in the city without first having obtained a license therefor, or without full
compliance with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-3: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES:
Applications for licenses shall be made in writing to the office of the city
clerk on forms promulgated by said office and shall comply with the general
provisions of this article.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Restaurant License: All applications for a license to conduct a
restaurant shall be referred to the building official, who shall make or cause
to be made an investigation of the premises/vehicle to be used, and report his
findings thereon, recommending or advising against the issuance of the license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Mobile Food Dispensing Service License:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All applications for any mobile food dispensing service license
which is sought and/or granted shall specify the area and/or location which the
mobile food dispensing service will operate. Further, the applicant shall
specify the number of such vehicles to be located in said location or area, and
shall not exceed the number so permitted. Any application for a mobile food
dispensing service license shall require the consent of the property owner if
located on private property, or the consent of the city if upon public property
or a dedicated way or public area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any application for a mobile food dispensing service license
requiring a vehicle shall be accompanied by proof of liability insurance in a
minimum sum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) (or such other amounts and
requirements as may be acceptable to the mayor in his sole discretion) and
issued by companies licensed to do business in the state of Illinois. Such
insurance certificate shall contain an agreement signed by the insurance
company that, prior to modification, cancellation or termination of the subject
policy, written notice shall be sent to the city by said insurance company.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any application for a mobile food dispensing service license shall
be accompanied by a list of the drivers who may service the area, their
drivers' license numbers, addresses and telephone numbers. Further, such
information shall disclose whether the drivers possess valid drivers' licenses,
the state of issuance of the drivers' licenses, the expiration dates and
whether the licenses are in good standing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Every owner, operator, and driver for a mobile food dispensing
service shall be of good and wholesome character. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Every mobile food dispensing service shall be inspected by the
county health department at least once a year. A copy of the certificate of
compliance issued by the county shall be provided with the application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Due to safety, traffic and other factors which may impact on the
public health, safety and welfare, the issuance of any license for a mobile
food dispensing service shall be first referred to the mayor, and shall not be
issued unless the mayor determines that the license does not present a
significant danger to the public health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-
2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1A-4: LICENSE FEES AND RENEWALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Restaurants: The annual fee for a restaurant license shall be as
provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code and must be renewed on or before September 1 of each year
following the date of issuance thereof. No license fee shall be collected from
any establishment previously issued a retail liquor license. There shall be no
prorations in the restaurant license fee.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Mobile Food Dispensing Services: The annual fee for a mobile food
dispensing service license shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code and must be renewed on or before September 1 of each year
following the date of issuance thereof. There shall be no prorations in the
mobile food dispensing service license fee. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003; amd.
2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Inspection Fee For License Renewals: An annual inspection fee as
provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code shall be paid at the time of renewal application. (Ord.
2007-O-29, 9-4-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1A-5: ICE CREAM TRUCK RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A person shall vend only when the ice cream truck is lawfully stopped.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A person shall vend only from the side of the truck away from moving
traffic and as near as possible to the curb or side of the street.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A person shall not vend to a person standing in the roadway.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A person shall not stop on the left side of a one-way street to vend.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The driver of an ice cream truck shall not back the same to make or
attempt a sale.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The operator of an ice cream truck may only play music, chimes or
amplified sounds while vending and only between the hours of twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The operator of an ice cream truck may drive through the streets of the
city for purposes of vending and only between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) noon and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. Thereafter, vending may occur only from
a single parked location through ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-
2003)
5-1A-6: FOOD AND DRINK REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Wholesomeness Of Food And Drink:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person, firm or corporation shall offer for sale or keep for the
purpose of selling or offering for sale any food of any kind intended for human
consumption which is spoiled or tainted or is unwholesome and unfit for human
consumption for any reason.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All food and drink shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage,
and so prepared as to be safe for human consumption.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All milk, fluid milk products, ice cream and other frozen desserts
served shall be from approved sources. Milk and fluid milk products shall be
served in the individual containers in which they were received from the
distributor or from a bulk container equipped with an approved dispensing
device; provided, that this requirement shall not apply to cream which may be
served from the original bottle or from a dispenser approved for such service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â All oysters, clams and mussels shall be from approved sources, and
if shucked, shall be kept until used in the containers in which they were
placed at the shucking plant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Samples of food, drink and other substances may be taken and
examined by the building official as often as may be necessary for the
detection of unwholesomeness or adulteration. The building official may condemn
and forbid the sale of, or cause to be removed or destroyed, any food or drink
which is unwholesome or adulterated.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Refrigeration: All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept at
or below thirty five degrees Fahrenheit (35Â°F) except when being prepared or
served. Wastewater from refrigeration equipment shall be properly disposed of.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Storage, Display And Serving Of Food And Drink:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All food and drink shall be so stored, displayed and served as to be
protected from dust, insects, vermin, depredation and pollution by rodents,
unnecessary handling, droplet infection, overhead leakage and other
contamination. All means necessary for the elimination of insects, flies,
roaches and rodents shall be used.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No animals or fowl shall be kept or allowed in any room in which
food or drink is prepared or stored. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-7: EMPLOYEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Health And Sanitation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All persons engaged in handling or coming in contact with food
intended for sale for human consumption shall keep themselves clean, both as to
their person and clothing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a
carrier of any infectious or contagious disease to handle or be engaged in the
care or preparation of any food, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
person to be employed in or about any premises where food is stored, prepared
or sold, or to deliver such food. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Lockers And Dressing Rooms: Adequate lockers or dressing rooms shall be
provided for employees' clothing and shall be kept clean. Soiled linens, coats
and aprons shall be kept in containers provided for this purpose. (Ord. 2003-O-
55, 9-2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1A-8: PREMISES RESTRICTIONS:
None of the operations connected with a restaurant shall be conducted in any
room used as living or sleeping quarters. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-9: TOILET FACILITIES:
Every restaurant (other than a mobile food dispensing service) shall be
provided with adequate and conveniently located toilet facilities for its
patrons and employees, which facilities shall conform to the ordinances of the
city. Toilet rooms shall be kept in a clean condition, and in good repair, and
well lighted and ventilated. Hand washing signs shall be posted in each toilet
room used by employees. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1A-10: WATER SUPPLY:
Running water under pressure shall be easily accessible to all rooms in which
food is prepared or utensils are washed, and the water supply shall be adequate
and of a safe, sanitary quality. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-11: UTENSILS AND EQUIPMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Construction And Materials: All multiuse utensils and all show and
display cases or windows, counters, shelves, tables, refrigeration equipment,
sinks and other equipment or utensils used in connection with the operation of
a restaurant shall be constructed as to be easily cleaned and shall be kept in
good repair. Utensils containing or plated with cadmium or lead shall not be
used; provided, that solder containing lead may be used for joining.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Cleaning And Bactericidal Treatment:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All equipment, including display cases or windows, counters,
shelves, tables, refrigerators, stoves, hoods and sinks, shall be kept clean
and free from dust, dirt, insects and other contaminating material. All cloths
used by waiters, chefs and other employees shall be clean. Single service
containers shall be used only once.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All multiuse eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly
cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved bactericidal process after
each use. All multiuse utensils used in the preparation or serving of food and
drink shall be thoroughly cleaned and effectively subjected to an approved
process immediately following the day's operation. Drying cloths, if used,
shall be kept clean and shall be used for no other purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No article, polish or other substance containing a cyanide
preparation or other poisonous material shall be used for the cleaning or
polishing of utensils.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Storage And Handling: After bactericidal treatment, utensils shall be
stored in a clean, dry place protected from insects, dust and other
contamination, and shall be handled in such a manner as to prevent
contamination as far as practicable. Single service utensils shall be purchased
only in containers, shall be stored therein in a clean, dry place until used,
and shall be handled in a sanitary manner. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-12: LITTER, GARBAGE AND WASTE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Accumulation Prohibited: The premises of all restaurants shall be kept
clean and free of litter or garbage.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Disposal Of Waste: All waste shall be properly disposed of, and all
garbage and trash shall be kept in regulation, watertight, properly covered
containers for holding without leakage. All garbage containers shall be closed
with a tightfitting cover. All garbage and other waste material shall be
removed from the premises daily and shall not be allowed to become a nuisance.
(Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Grease Traps: Each restaurant (other than a mobile food dispensing
service) shall be provided with a grease trap installed in strict compliance
with the plumbing ordinances of the city. The owner shall cause the grease trap
to be inspected not less than once a year to ensure that the trap is
functioning as required. The owner shall provide proof of such inspection at
the time of renewal application. (Ord. 2007-O-29, 9-4-2007)
5-1A-13: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, PERSONS UNDER INFLUENCE PROHIBITED:
No licensee hereunder shall permit any person or persons to be upon the
premises who are under the influence of intoxicating liquor. Except to the
extent authorized by a city liquor license as provided under this code, no
licensee hereunder shall offer for sale, sell, dispense or permit any
intoxicating liquor in such place of business; nor shall any licensee hereunder
permit any intoxicating liquor to be consumed upon the business premises. (Ord.
2003-O-55, 9-2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1A-14: INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â At least every six (6) months, the building official or his designee
(which may be the Lake County health department) may inspect every premises to
which a license has been issued by the city. Said inspection is to examine all
premises wherein restaurants are conducted for the purposes of ascertaining
whether this article and all other ordinances of the city and the laws of the
state relative to the keeping of restaurants are being complied with at such
place, and it shall be their duty to cause all such ordinances and laws to be
strictly enforced. In case the building official discovers the violation of any
item of sanitation, or otherwise, he shall make a second inspection after the
lapse of such time as he deems necessary for the defect to be remedied, and the
second inspection shall be used in determining compliance with the requirements
of this article or any other ordinance. Any violation of the same requirement
of this article or such second inspection shall call for immediate revocation
of the license. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â One copy of the inspection report shall be posted by the building
official upon an inside wall of the restaurant, and said inspection report
shall not be defaced or removed by any person except the building official.
Another copy of the inspection report shall be filed with the records of the
county health department. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The person operating the restaurant shall, upon request of the building
official, permit access to all parts of the establishment and shall permit
copying any or all records of foods purchased. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any restaurant license may be suspended by the mayor for any violation of this
article and revoked by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city
council, for violation of the provisions herein, or for any violation of any
other ordinance, code, statute, or applicable governmental regulation or
provision relating to the conduct of the business, the condition of the
premises/vehicle, the articles sold, or to the license required. (Ord. 2003-O-
55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-16: EFFECT ON OTHER PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to repeal any
other ordinances except as hereinafter provided, and it is expressly intended
that all building, health, licensing and other ordinances of the city, as
applicable, shall apply to restaurants and restaurant premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Other than as set forth in this chapter, all ordinances, parts of
ordinances, regulations of the city, and administrative provisions of the city
in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-2003)
5-1A-17: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of
any provision of this article shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this article shall not
release such person from paying any fee due and unpaid at the time of such
conviction, nor shall payment of any fee prevent prosecution for violation of
any of the provisions of this article.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The amount of any fee due hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the city.
An action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent fee. All unpaid fees shall be
deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 2003-O-55, 9-2-
2003)
ARTICLE B. SIDEWALK CAFES
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Definition
5-1B-2: Compliance Required
5-1B-3: License Required
5-1B-4: Application For License; Fee
5-1B-5: Insurance And Indemnity
5-1B-6: License Restrictions
5-1B-7: Term Of License; Renewals
5-1B-8: Free And Unobstructed Passage Required
5-1B-9: Sidewalk Maintenance Required
5-1B-10: Attendant Required
5-1B-11: Food And Drink Control
5-1B-12: Noise Control
5-1B-13: Expansion Areas
5-1B-14: Cancellation Or Revocation Of License
5-1B-15: Penalties
5-1B-1: DEFINITION:
Use of any part of any public sidewalk within the city by any business to
provide or serve either any food or any beverage, or both, or as a seating or
waiting area shall constitute operation of a "sidewalk cafe". (Ord. 2003-O-44,
7-1-2003)
5-1B-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any use of any part of any public sidewalk or way within the city by a
sidewalk cafe shall be done only in accordance with the provisions of this
article. Any use of any part of any public sidewalk within the city contrary to
or in violation of this article shall be unlawful.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or entity making
application for a sidewalk cafe license shall be deemed to have consented to
the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate any sidewalk cafe within the city unless and until a
license for the same has first been issued. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
Application for a license for operation of a sidewalk cafe shall be filed with
the city clerk on a form provided by or in such a format as specified by the
city clerk. Each person filing a request for a license to operate a sidewalk
cafe shall pay to the city clerk, at the time of filing the request, a fee as
provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1B-5: INSURANCE AND INDEMNITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Insurance: Any person issued a license to operate a sidewalk cafe
within the city shall, prior to commencing any operation as a sidewalk cafe,
name the city as an additional insured on a policy of liability insurance which
the city deems sufficient both as to insurance carrier and liability amounts.
Such liability shall include, but not be limited to, dramshop coverage (if any
alcoholic beverage is to be served by the applicant requesting the sidewalk
cafe license, whether such service is inside or outside). If the insurance
coverage lapses, or the city determines that the coverage is not sufficient,
the city may revoke the license. Such license shall not be considered for
reinstatement until sufficient insurance coverage is provided.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Indemnity: Any person issued a license to operate a sidewalk cafe does
thereby agree to fully indemnify and hold the city harmless from any claim
whatsoever arising as a result of or due to any use of the public sidewalk or
way, or any part thereof, as a result of or in accordance with the sidewalk
cafe license. Such indemnification and hold harmless shall include any and all
costs and/or attorney fees incurred by the city in defense of any claim. (Ord.
2003-O-44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-6: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
A sidewalk cafe license shall be issued only to a properly licensed restaurant
which does not serve alcoholic beverages or to a properly licensed restaurant
holding a class 2, 2A, 2W or 5 liquor license. (Ord. 2006-O-27, 8-15-2006)
5-1B-7: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
Any license issued for operation of a sidewalk cafe shall expire on the next
following June 30. Application to operate a sidewalk cafe for the next
succeeding year shall be due prior to July 1 of each year, and no continuing
operation of a sidewalk cafe shall be permitted unless and until a new license
for the next year is issued. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-8: FREE AND UNOBSTRUCTED PASSAGE REQUIRED:
The license to operate a sidewalk cafe shall not be deemed as granting the
licensee exclusive use of the public walk. Any person issued a license to
operate a sidewalk cafe, and all persons so operating a sidewalk cafe, shall
assure, at all times, that a reasonable minimum amount of passable space, in no
event less than four feet (4') in width, is maintained upon the area of the
public sidewalk or way being utilized by the sidewalk cafe, such that persons
not attending the sidewalk cafe may pass freely and easily and without undue
obstruction along and through the area of the public sidewalk being utilized by
the sidewalk cafe. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-9: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE REQUIRED:
Any person issued a license to operate, and all persons so operating a sidewalk
cafe, shall assure, at all times, that all areas of the public sidewalk or way
being utilized or adjacent to the business are kept and maintained in good and
proper condition. This shall include, but shall not be limited to, keeping the
area free from all debris, garbage, droppings, deposits, spills, etc. No
damage, alteration, modification, drilling, or change may be made to any part
of any public sidewalk as a result of the issuance of a sidewalk cafe license.
(Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-10: ATTENDANT REQUIRED:
Any person issued a license to operate, and all persons so operating a sidewalk
cafe, shall assure that an attendant, waiter or waitress is on duty in and upon
the sidewalk cafe portion of the premises at all times when food or drink is
being consumed at the sidewalk cafe. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1B-11: FOOD AND DRINK CONTROL:
All food and drink shall be stored, displayed and served to avoid attraction of
insects, vermin, rodents and other nuisances, and prompt and efficient cleanup
shall be performed to avoid the same. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-12: NOISE CONTROL:
Any person issued a license to operate, and all persons so operating a sidewalk
cafe, shall assure, at all times, that operation of the sidewalk cafe does not
cause or result in undue noise which disturbs other residents or the operation
of other businesses in the vicinity. Operation of a sidewalk cafe after ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. shall be done in such a manner as to especially safeguard
against undue noise, and shall be subject to such further regulations as may be
imposed by the city from time to time. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-13: EXPANSION AREAS:
Any person owning or operating a business premises for which a sidewalk cafe
license may be issued may request that the city modify the sidewalk area
adjacent to such business premises for sidewalk cafe uses. Such request shall
be forwarded to the city council for review, as it determines appropriate. The
city council, in its sole discretion, may authorize the modification of the
public right of way for an expanded sidewalk cafe area ("expansion area")
subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â That in the event the applicant ceases to pay the licensing fee, or the
license for the expansion area is revoked or rescinded by the city, the
applicant be required to cause the restoration of, or pay for the costs of
restoration by the city, of the expansion area to sidewalk, curbing, pavement
and/or landscaping in the city's sole discretion. Further, that prior to the
modification of the right of way to allow the expansion area, the applicant
provide a restoration bond, or a restoration agreement acceptable to the city,
to ensure the provisions of this subsection for restoration may be implemented
by the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â That prior to issuance of the sidewalk cafe license, the applicant
shall provide an acknowledgment, in a form and type acceptable to the city
attorney, that the city shall be permitted to remove the proposed expansion
area in its sole and absolute discretion, as it determines appropriate.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â That such expansion area as proposed to be constructed is safe for the
proposed patrons, pedestrians, and vehicular traffic in the vicinity. The city
may require the applicant to provide a traffic or engineering study relative to
the proposed expansion area.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â That the applicant shall be required to pay any and all costs of the
design, construction and installation of the proposed expansion area,
including, but not limited to, engineering costs, design costs, staff costs,
attorney fees or otherwise. An estimate of the proposed costs shall be prepared
prior to the commencement of construction, and such costs shall be paid in full
by the applicant prior to commencement of such construction. (Ord. 2003-O-44,
7-1-2003)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â That in addition to the license fee required in this article, the
applicant shall pay an additional license fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code for the expansion area. Such licensing fee shall be paid
annually in advance and shall expire on June 30 of each year. Further provided,
that in the event at the time of application, the city council determines that
such expansion area constitutes a permanent benefit to the city, that in lieu
of payment on an annual basis, the applicant shall be given a credit for the
costs paid by the applicant to construct the expansion area. (Ord. 2003-O-44,
7-1-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â That upon construction of such a expansion area, the applicant shall be
deemed to have consented to pay the license fees required hereunder on an
annual basis, so long as the business premises continues in operation, or is
otherwise owned, operated or controlled by the applicant, unless the city has
determined that it will remove the proposed expansion area, at which time, the
applicant's financial obligation shall cease.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â That the proposed expansion area shall complement the public way and/or
proposed or existing streetscape improvements, and shall be otherwise
aesthetically appropriate.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â That the proposed expansion area shall not unduly impact parking within
the business district. The city shall consider other available parking in the
area, the parking impact of other surrounding establishments and the
applicant's business establishment along with the adequacy of other parking
provided by the applicant for its business establishment.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â That prior to issuance of the sidewalk cafe license, the applicant
shall provide an indemnification and hold harmless agreement to the city, in a
form and type acceptable to the city attorney.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â That the applicant shall be solely responsible for the maintenance of
the expansion area. In the event that the applicant fails to maintain the
expansion area and the city opts to provide such maintenance, the costs of such
maintenance provided by the city shall be paid by the applicant. (Ord. 2003-O-
44, 7-1-2003)
5-1B-14: CANCELLATION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Sidewalk cafe licenses may be canceled and/or revoked by the city at any time.
(Ord. 2006-O-27, 8-15-2006)
5-1B-15: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or entity, or employee of
same, violating any provision of this article shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this article shall not
release such person from paying any fee due and unpaid at the time of such
conviction, nor shall payment of any fee prevent prosecution for violation of
any of the provisions of this article.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The amount of any fee due hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the city.
An action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent fee. All unpaid fees shall be
deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 2003-O-44, 7-1-
2003)
ARTICLE C. CURBSIDE CAFES
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Pilot Program
5-1C-2: Definitions
5-1C-3: Permit Required For Curbside Cafe
5-1C-4: Permit Application And Approval Procedure
5-1C-5: Insurance Required
5-1C-6: Review Of Application
5-1C-7: Compliance With Plan And Other Components Of Application
5-1C-8: Assignment Or Transfer Prohibited
5-1C-9: Restrictions On Issuance Of A Permit
5-1C-10: Operational Conditions
5-1C-11: Alcoholic Beverage Service; Requirements
5-1C-12: Compliance With Code And Regulations Required
5-1C-13: Promulgation Of Regulations; Force And Effect
5-1C-14: Enforcement
5-1C-15: Penalties
5-1C-16: Permit Revocation
5-1C-17: Sunset Clause
5-1C-1: PILOT PROGRAM:
A curbside cafe permit program is hereby established. The program shall run
through to April 30, 2025. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-
2021; Ord. 23-O-06, 6-6-2023)
5-1C-2: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever used in this article, the following definitions apply:
CURBSIDE CAFE: That portion of an immobile retail food or bar establishment
operating, pursuant to a permit, in a section of the traffic lane closest to
the curb that is normally used for parking.
IMMOBILE RETAIL FOOD OR BAR ESTABLISHMENT: A retail food or bar establishment
that has been issued a business license for a fixed location inside a building.
PERMITTEE: A person who has been issued a curbside cafe permit. (Ord. 16-O-35,
7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-3: PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CURBSIDE CAFE:
No person shall operate a curbside cafe without first obtaining a permit under
this article. A curbside cafe permit shall be valid from May 1 to and including
September 30 of the year of its issuance. The annual fee for the permit shall
be five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05,
4-7-2021)
5-1C-4: PERMIT APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
An application for a curbside cafe permit shall be submitted to the city
manager in a form and format prescribed by the city manager. The application
shall be filed in the same year in which the permit will be issued. The
applicant shall include:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Proof that the applicant holds a valid business license for an immobile
retail food or bar establishment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Proof of insurance as required by this article.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A detailed plan for the curbside cafe, complying with applicable
regulations and demonstrating that the curbside cafe shall not unreasonably
interfere with: 1) adequate pedestrian or vehicular flow; 2) pedestrian and
vehicular safety; or 3) the aesthetic quality of the surrounding area. The plan
shall also clearly show the location of any fire hydrant, protected bicycle
lane, intersection, bus stop, and loading zone, and indicate the distance of
such items from the proposed location of the curbside cafe.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Applications shall be processed on a first in time basis. If two (2) or
more applications are filed at the same time for a location on the same side of
a block and both applications meet the requirements of this article for
approval, the city manager shall conduct a lottery to determine which
application to approve.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any other pertinent information reasonably required by the city
manager. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-5: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Each applicant shall furnish proof of insurance evidencing commercial general
liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) in the
aggregate combined single limit, for bodily injury, personal injury and
property damage liability. The insurance shall provide for thirty (30) days'
prior written notice to be given to the city manager if coverage is
substantially changed, canceled or nonrenewed.
The city shall be named as an additional insured on a primary, noncontributory
basis for any liability arising directly or indirectly from the operations of a
curbside cafe; and the permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold the city, its
elected officials, employees and agents harmless from any loss that results
directly or indirectly from the permit issuance.
If alcoholic beverages will be served at the curbside cafe, the applicant shall
provide proof of liquor liability (dramshop) insurance for the curbside cafe as
required by subsection 4-1-6C of this code.
Each permittee shall maintain the insurance coverage required under this
section for the duration of the permit. The proof of insurance shall be
presented to the city manager prior to the issuance of a permit. Failure of the
permittee to maintain the insurance shall result in the revocation of the
curbside cafe permit. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-6: REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Within five (5) business days of receipt of the application the police
chief shall review the application to determine whether the location of the
curbside cafe will unduly interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
parking within the area. If the police chief determines that the location of
the curbside cafe will unduly interfere with either pedestrian or vehicular
traffic or parking within the area, the city manager shall deny the application
pursuant to subsection C of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the city manager finds that the applicant meets the requirements of
this article and the regulations promulgated hereunder, the city manager shall
refer the application to the appearance review committee for consideration
under the Highwood appearance code.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If the city manager finds that the applicant fails to meet the
requirements of this article or the regulations promulgated hereunder, the city
manager shall deny the application. The city manager shall notify the
unsuccessful applicant in writing of the denial and the reasons therefor within
ten (10) business days after the denial. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord.
21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-7: COMPLIANCE WITH PLAN AND OTHER COMPONENTS OF APPLICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Each curbside cafe shall comply in all respects with the specifications
set out in the plan submitted to the city manager, and with the other
components of the application.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In the event that the application, including the plan, becomes
inaccurate or incomplete in any respect as a result of circumstances or events
outside the control of the permittee, the permittee shall notify the city
manager within three (3) business days of such circumstances or events.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Before taking any action that would result in the application,
including the plan, becoming inaccurate or incomplete in any respect, the
permittee shall seek the prior approval of the city manager.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Upon being notified of an actual or contemplated change pursuant to
this section, the city manager, in consultation with the police chief, shall
review the change to determine if such change is insubstantial or substantial,
using the same criteria as relevant to the city manager's consideration of an
initial application. If such change is insubstantial and if the application, as
so changed, meets the criteria for an initial application, the city manager
shall approve the change. If such change is substantial and if the application,
as so changed, does not meet the criteria for an initial application, the city
manager shall disapprove the change. If such change is substantial, a new
permit application shall be required. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-
05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-8: ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER PROHIBITED:
No permittee shall assign or transfer a curbside cafe permit. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-
19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-9: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF A PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Only one curbside cafe permit shall be issued for a location on the
same side of a block.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A curbside cafe is only permitted on a street that has a sidewalk with
less than eleven feet (11') of width in front of the immobile retail food or
bar establishment.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The length of the curbside cafe shall not exceed the length of the
immobile retail food or bar establishment adjacent to the sidewalk, or forty
feet (40'), whichever is less. The curbside cafe shall not take up any portion
of a public parking space that is in part located in front of any property
adjacent to the immobile retail food or bar establishment seeking a curbside
cafe permit.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The permitted outdoor seating area of curbside cafe must be located in
the parking lane by the curb that is immediately in front of the immobile
retail food or bar establishment.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â A curbside cafe is prohibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In a protected bicycle lane;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Within thirty feet (30') from a stop sign;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Within thirty feet (30') of a controlled intersection;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Within fifteen feet (15') from a bus stop, loading zone, or fire
hydrant; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â In any location deemed unsafe by the city manager or police chief.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The location of the curbside cafe shall not unduly interfere with
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or parking in the area.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No curbside cafe shall extend into the street beyond the parking lane.
(Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-10: OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Curbside cafes shall not operate between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., Sunday through Thursday, or between
the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.,
Friday and Saturday.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The permittee shall: 1) install and maintain a physical boundary
separating the permitted outdoor seating area from the remainder of the traffic
lanes; and 2) construct the curbside cafe to make its floor height the same
height as the sidewalk in order to avoid a tripping hazard. The construction,
configuration and other characteristics of the curbside cafe floor and physical
boundary, including landscaping, shall be set forth by regulation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The permitted outdoor seating area of the curbside cafes shall be for
the exclusive use of the immobile retail food or bar establishment stated on
the application. Sharing or other joint use of a curbside cafe location by more
than one retail food or bar establishment shall not be permitted.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Only the service of food and alcoholic beverages at curbside cafes are
authorized by this article. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-
2021)
5-1C-11: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SERVICE; REQUIREMENTS:
If alcoholic beverages are served at the curbside cafe, the permittee must have
a valid liquor license. Alcoholic beverages supplied by the customer or by any
person other than the permittee will not be allowed at curbside cafes. (Ord.
16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-12: COMPLIANCE WITH CODE AND REGULATIONS REQUIRED:
A permittee and his employees shall be subject to and comply with all
applicable laws, regulations and other requirements and standards for retail
food or bar establishments and the sale of alcoholic beverages.
The permittee shall gain the approval of the appearance review committee and
city council for all curbside cafes in operation after June 1, 2018. (Ord. 16-
O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-13: PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS; FORCE AND EFFECT:
The city manager is authorized to promulgate regulations to carry out the
purposes of this article, including, without limitation, regulations governing:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The location, arrangement and design of curbside cafes to ensure the
flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, the safety of pedestrians and
vehicular traffic, and the access to bus stops, loading zones and fire
hydrants;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The size, design and other specifications for tables and serving
equipment to be used by a permittee, and the design of enclosures or partial
enclosures;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The types of food and beverages that may be served at curbside cafes;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The time periods during which an application can be made for a curbside
cafe permit;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Landscaping and other aesthetic components of the curbside cafe; and
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Any other matter pertaining to this article.
In promulgating the rules regarding the location, arrangement and design of any
curbside cafe, the city manager shall consult with the police chief. (Ord. 16-
O-35, 7-19-2016; amd. Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-14: ENFORCEMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city manager is authorized to take such action as necessary to
enforce the provisions of this article, including conducting on site
inspections of curbside cafes.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Upon request by the city manager, a permittee shall provide for
inspection of any document required by this article, including the curbside
cafe permit, the plan for the curbside cafe, and proof of insurance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any curbside cafe for which a permit is required by this article, and
which has failed to obtain such permit, may be closed by the city manager until
such permit is procured. Upon being notified of closure, all curbside cafe
activity must cease, and all obstructions in the public way, including
boundaries, tables and chairs, must be removed.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any curbside cafe for which a permit is in effect under this article
may be temporarily closed by the city manager, if the cafe has been issued
notices of violation on three (3) different days during the permit period, each
of which pertains to a significant breach of public safety. Nonlimiting
examples include: 1) cafe encroachment on the public way beyond plan
specifications, 2) a missing or incomplete barrier, or 3) signs, serving tray
stands or other objects in the public way. Upon being subjected to a temporary
closure, the permittee may provide to the city manager evidence that the
objectionable conditions have been fully remedied. Such temporary closure shall
remain in effect until the city manager is satisfied that the violations have
been properly remedied and will not reoccur. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd.
Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-15: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article or
regulations promulgated hereunder shall be subject to a fine of not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense and each day such a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
and distinct offense.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In addition to any other fine or penalty provided, and any person who
knowingly interferes with or impedes the city manager in the enforcement of
this article may be subject to incarceration for a term not to exceed six (6)
months.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any curbside cafe in operation without a valid permit is subject to
removal from the public way by the city manager. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd.
Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-16: PERMIT REVOCATION:
In addition to fines and other penalties as provided for herein, three (3) or
more violations of any provision of this article or regulations promulgated
hereunder within a permit period shall subject the permittee to revocation of
the curbside cafe permit by the city manager. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd.
Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021)
5-1C-17: SUNSET CLAUSE:
This article shall expire on April 30, 2025. (Ord. 16-O-35, 7-19-2016; amd.
Ord. 21-O-05, 4-7-2021; Ord. 23-O-06, 6-6-2023)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCE ABATEMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Notice To Abate
5-2-2: Failure To Abate; Abatement By City; Costs
5-2-3: Lien Claim
5-2-4: Foreclosure Of Lien
5-2-5: Bids Awarded For Work
5-2-6: Summary Abatement
5-2-7: Information To Property Owner
5-2-8: Collection Of Monies
5-2-9: Release Of Lien
5-2-10: Penalty
5-2-1: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Whenever the existence of any nuisance defined in this chapter, on any lots or
parcels of real estate situated within the city, shall come to the knowledge of
the county health inspector, it shall be his duty to cause a written notice
identifying such property to be issued to the person owning the same. Such
notice shall be addressed to such person at his post office address, requiring
the abatement of such nuisance by grubbing and removing such weeds, brush,
rubbish or other objectionable, unsightly or unsanitary matter of whatever
nature, as the case may be, or by filling in, draining, leveling or otherwise
regulating such lots or parcels of real estate so as to prevent stagnant water
standing therein, within ten (10) days from the service of such notice. Such
notice shall further state that, in default of the performance of the above
condition, the city may, at once, cause the same to be done and charge the cost
and expense incurred in doing or having such work done or improvements made to
the owner of such property, and fix a lien thereon as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981; amd. 2009 Code)
5-2-2: FAILURE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY CITY; COSTS:
In the event of the failure, refusal or neglect of the owner or occupant of any
premises or property to cause such nuisance to be removed or abated in the
manner and within the time provided herein, it shall be the duty of the health
inspector to cause the weeds, brush, rubbish or other unsanitary matter or
condition constituting a nuisance to be promptly and summarily abated, in a
reasonable and prudent manner, at the initial expense of the city. The health
inspector, or his duly authorized representatives, shall compile the cost of
such work done and improvements made in abating such nuisance, and shall charge
the same against the owner of the premises. It is hereby provided that general
overhead of administrative expense of inspection, locating the owner, issuing a
notice, reinspection and ordering work done, together with all necessary
incidents of same, shall require a charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
lot, series of two (2) or more adjacent and contiguous lots, or tract or parcel
of acreage, and such minimum charge is hereby established and declared to be an
expense of such work and improvement. Notwithstanding, therefore, any
tabulation of recorded cost, a minimum charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall
be assessed against each lot so improved under the terms of this section, but
such sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) is hereby expressly stated to be a minimum
charge only, and shall have no application when the tabulated cost of the work
done shall exceed such minimum charge. (Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981)
5-2-3: LIEN CLAIM:
Charges for such removal shall be a lien upon the premises. Whenever a bill for
such charges remains unpaid thirty (30) days after it has been rendered, the
city clerk may file with the county recorder of deeds a statement of lien
claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of the premises, the
expenses and costs incurred, the date of work, and a notice that the city
claims a lien for this amount. Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises if his address is known. Provided, however, that failure
of the city clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such notice, or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for such charges as provided in section
5-2-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981)
5-2-4: FORECLOSURE OF LIEN:
Property subject to a lien shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the
proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting
costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure
shall be in equity in the name of the city. The city attorney is hereby
authorized and directed to institute such proceedings, in the name of the city,
in any court having jurisdiction over such matter, against any property for
which such bill has remained unpaid thirty (30) days after it has been
rendered. (Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981)
5-2-5: BIDS AWARDED FOR WORK:
The city shall have the right to award any quantity of work authorized herein
to a general contractor whose bid shall be accepted by the city council as the
lowest and best secured bid for the doing of the work herein mentioned during a
stipulated time not to exceed one year. (Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981)
5-2-6: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
In addition to the remedies prescribed by this chapter, and cumulative thereof,
if it shall be brought to the attention of the city council and it shall be
determined that any such nuisance or nuisances are likely to have an immediate
adverse effect upon the public health, comfort or safety, then, and in that
event, the city council may, by appropriate resolution or motion, order such
nuisance or nuisances summarily abated by the city in a reasonably prudent
manner. (Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981)
5-2-7: INFORMATION TO PROPERTY OWNER:
All notices to cut weeds or abate any nuisance under this chapter, and all
statements evidencing costs to the city of cutting weeds or abatement of
nuisances upon failure, refusal or neglect of the owner to cut weeds or abate
the nuisance after having been notified to do so, as well as all other clerical
work incident to enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, shall be
prepared and mailed by the city clerk to the owner of record of the property.
(Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981)
5-2-8: COLLECTION OF MONIES:
All payments of money by and collections of money, if any, from property owners
for the purpose of paying the city for expense in abating nuisances as provided
for in this chapter shall be handled by the city clerk. Any such payment or
collection so made shall be received by and receipted for by the city
collector. Such sums of money so received shall be turned over by the collector
to the city not less than once each fifteen (15) days, together with a
duplicate of the receipts issued therefor. Such receipts, and the necessary
records in connection therewith, shall be prepared and handled and maintained
as a permanent record, and such sums of money shall be handled, all in the form
and manner prescribed by the city treasurer. (Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981)
5-2-9: RELEASE OF LIEN:
The city clerk is hereby authorized to execute releases on behalf of the city
of any and all liens created under the provisions of this chapter. The city
clerk shall have no right to execute such releases unless and until he has
satisfied himself that the debt or portion thereof secured by the lien and for
which a release is requested has been paid in full to the city, and any such
lien shall be released only insofar as it affects the property for which the
debt secured thereby has been paid in full. The fee for furnishing said release
shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 81-O-9, 8-7-1981)
5-2-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Title
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Public Property
5-3-4: Littering From Vehicles
5-3-5: Handbill Distribution
5-3-6: Posting Notices
5-3-7: Private Property
5-3-8: Use Of Receptacles
5-3-9: Penalty
5-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the HIGHWOOD ANTILITTER
ORDINANCE OF 1962. (Ord. 62-O-14, 9-21-1962)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the past
tense, and words used in the singular number include the plural number. The
word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE: A container as required and authorized by the
ordinances of the city for the collection and storage of rubbish, waste, refuse
or other matter.
CITY: The city of Highwood.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original copies of any matter or literature:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
things; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment or other activity for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interests thereof by sales; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; provided, however, that the
terms of this subsection shall not apply when no admission fee is charged or a
collection is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to
such meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind when
either or any of the same is held, given or takes place in connection with the
dissemination of information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules
of decency, good morals, public peace, safety and good order; and further
provided, that nothing contained in this subsection shall be deemed to
authorize the holding, giving or taking place of any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind without a license where such
license is or may be required by any law of this state or under any ordinance
of the city; or
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter,
is predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish", as defined in this section, and all
other material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends or may
tend to create a danger to the public health, safety and welfare.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law, any
newspaper duly entered with the post office department of the United States in
accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and in addition
thereto, the term shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per year and sold to the
public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample, device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the definitions in this section of a "commercial
handbill" or "newspaper".
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation of any kind.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste (except body wastes)
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
vehicles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 62-O-14, 9-21-1962)
5-3-3: PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street,
sidewalk, or other public place within the city except in public receptacles,
in authorized private receptacles for collection or in official city dumps.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or
occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of
litter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
city shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. (Ord. 62-O-14, 9-21-1962)
5-3-4: LITTERING FROM VEHICLES:
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property. (Ord. 62-O-14, 9-21-1962)
5-3-5: HANDBILL DISTRIBUTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Throwing In Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any sidewalk, street or other
public place within the city; nor shall any person hand out or distribute or
sell any commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it
shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place within the
city for any person to hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver
thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Placing On Vehicles: No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall
not be unlawful in any public place for a person to hand out or distribute,
without charge to the receiver thereof, a noncommercial handbill to any
occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Depositing Upon Uninhabited, Vacant Premises: No person shall throw or
deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private
premises which is temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Distribution Where Property Posted Prohibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill upon any private premises if requested by anyone thereon
not to do so or if there is placed on said premises in a position near the
entrance thereof a sign bearing the words "No Trespassing", "No Peddlers Or
Agents", "No Advertisements" or any similar notice indicating in any manner
that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or have their
right of privacy disturbed or to have any such handbills left upon such
premises; provided, that in any event, any person placing or depositing any
such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises must so place or
deposit it as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted
about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States nor to "newspapers" as defined in
section
5-3-2 of this chapter; except, that mail and newspapers shall be placed on
private property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property. (Ord. 62-O-14, 9-21-1962)
5-3-6: POSTING NOTICES:
No person shall post or fix any notice, poster or other paper or device
calculated to attract the attention of the public to any lamppost, public
utility pole or shade tree or upon any public structure or building except as
may be authorized or required by law. (Ord. 62-O-14, 9-21-1962)
5-3-7: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Deposit Of Litter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city whether owned by such person or not; except, that the
owner or person in control of the private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant
private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not. (Ord.
62-O-14, 9-21-1962)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Owner To Maintain Premises Free Of Litter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this
subsection shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private
receptacles for collection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The owner or person in control of any private property shall flatten
all cardboard cartons, and said cartons broken down and flattened shall be kept
in neat piles prior to collection. They shall be kept in such a manner that
said cartons will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property
including that of the owner or person in control of said private property.
(Ord. 83-O-12, 10-21-1983)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Removal Of Litter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Notice To Remove: The city health officer is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the owner of any open private property within the city or
the agent of such owner to properly dispose of litter located on such owner's
property. Such notice shall be by registered or certified mail addressed to
said owner at his last known address as shown on the records of the county
collector of taxes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Action Upon Noncompliance: Upon the failure and neglect or refusal
of any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter within fifteen
(15) days after receipt of the written notice provided in subsection C1 of this
section or within ten (10) days after the date of such notice in the event the
same is returned by the post office because of its inability to make delivery
thereof, provided the same was properly addressed to the last known address of
such owner or agent, the city health officer is hereby authorized and empowered
to effect the removal and disposal of such litter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Costs Charged To Owner: When the city has effected the removal of
such litter, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest at the rate of six
percent (6%) per annum from the date of the completion of the work, if not paid
by such owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the owner of such property. A
statement of the amount of such charge shall be sent to the owner in the same
manner as provided in subsection C1 of this section. (Ord. 62-O-14, 9-21-1962;
amd. 2009 Code)
5-3-8: USE OF RECEPTACLES:
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent such litter from being
carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public
place or upon private property. (Ord. 62-O-14, 9-21-1962)
5-3-9: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OUTDOOR BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Compliance Required
5-4-2: Burning Leaves Prohibited
5-4-3: Open Fires
5-4-4: Duty To Report Burning
5-4-5: Fire Chief May Prohibit Burning
5-4-6: Penalty
5-4-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or open fire or authorize any
such fire to be kindled or maintained on or in any public street, parkway,
alley, road, public ground, construction site, demolition site or private
property within the city limits and/or in any unincorporated area within one-
half (1/2) mile of the city limits, except as authorized herein. (Ord. 2003-O-
29, 5-6-2003)
5-4-2: BURNING LEAVES PROHIBITED:
The burning of leaves within the city limits and in any unincorporated area
within one-half (1/2) mile of the city limits is prohibited. No person shall
kindle or maintain any fire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or
maintained for the purpose of burning leaves. (Ord. 2003-O-29, 5-6-2003)
5-4-3: OPEN FIRES:
No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or open fire or authorize any
such fire to be kindled or maintained. However, such prohibition shall not
prohibit:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The burning of any fire for cooking or barbecuing purposes within a
grill constructed for such purpose, and burning either natural gas, LP gas,
charcoal briquettes or a substitute.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The burning of wood or natural gas within a residence or business
premises in a properly constructed fireplace.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The burning of wood or natural gas in any stove designed for heating of
a residence or business premises.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The burning of charcoal briquettes, firewood and/or kindling within a
commercially available outdoor firepit or "chiminea" which is in good condition
or an outdoor firepit of masonry construction in good condition and no larger
than three feet (3') in diameter. Further provided, that in all cases:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Such fire is located a sufficient distance from any structure and
adequate provision is made to prevent the fire from spreading to any structure;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The materials to be burned are limited only to charcoal briquettes,
firewood and kindling untreated with chemicals. The burning of any other
materials including, but not limited to, rubber, tar, plastic, insulation,
cloth, construction debris, garbage and animal or vegetable matter is
specifically prohibited. (Ord. 2003-O-29, 5-6-2003)
5-4-4: DUTY TO REPORT BURNING:
It shall be the duty of each person, firm, corporation or entity in control of
any property on which a prohibited fire is found to be burning to immediately
report same to the city. (Ord. 2003-O-29, 5-6-2003)
5-4-5: FIRE CHIEF MAY PROHIBIT BURNING:
The chief of the fire department may, in his sole discretion, prohibit any or
all outdoor fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances makes such
fires hazardous to the health and welfare of the public, in the opinion of said
chief. (Ord. 2003-O-29, 5-6-2003)
5-4-6: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation violating any provision of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TREES, SHRUBS AND PLANTS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Title
5-5-2: Purpose And Intent
5-5-3: Definitions
5-5-4: Duties Of Appearance Review Committee
5-5-5: Duties Of Chair Of Appearance Review Committee
5-5-6: Permit Requirements
5-5-7: Public Nuisances
5-5-8: Interference With Chair Of Appearance Review Committee Prohibited
5-5-9: Appeals
5-5-10: Penalties
5-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF HIGHWOOD TREE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
5-5-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote and protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare by providing for the regulation of
the planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and other plants
within the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Intent: It is the intent of the city council that the terms of this
chapter shall be construed so as to promote:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The planting, maintenance, restoration, and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs and other plants within the city; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The protection of community residents from personal injury and
property damage, and the protection of the city from property damage, caused or
threatened by the improper planting, maintenance, or removal of trees, shrubs,
or other plants located within the city. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
5-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used within this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth in this section:
ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE FOR THE CITY OF
HIGHWOOD (HEREINAFTER, "ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL"): A manual
prepared by the chair of the appearance review committee, with the advice and
consultation of the appearance review committee, pursuant to the regulations
and standards for the planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs, and
other plants upon city owned property.
CHAIR: The chair of the appearance review committee of the city of Highwood,
Lake County, Illinois.
CITY OWNED PROPERTY: Property within the city limits of the city of Highwood,
Lake County, Illinois; and
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Owned by the city in fee simple absolute; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Implied or expressly dedicated to the public for present or future use
for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or for public easements.
PROPERTY OWNER: The record owner or contract purchaser of any parcel of land.
TREES, SHRUBS AND OTHER PLANTS: All vegetation, woody or otherwise, except lawn
grass and flowers less than twenty four inches (24") in height. (Ord. 93-O-24,
8-3-1993)
5-5-4: DUTIES OF APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE:
The appearance review committee shall perform the following duties:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The appearance review committee shall advise and consult the city
council on any matter pertaining to this chapter and its enforcement. The
topics under which this advice and consultation may be given may include, but
are not limited to, any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Amendments to this chapter, and alterations or revisions to the
arboricultural specifications manual, and alterations or revisions of the urban
forestry plan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Policy concerning selection, planting, maintenance, and removal of
trees, shrubs, and other plants within the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Allocation and expenditure of funds pursuant to this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Establishment of educational and informational programs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Development of policies and procedures regarding the chair's duties
in relation to this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Issuance of permits required by this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The appearance review committee, upon the request of any person who
disagrees with the decision of the chair, shall hear all issues of the disputes
which arise between the chair and any such person whenever those issues involve
matters or the interpretation or enforcement of the arboricultural
specifications manual, the urban forest plan, or of the interpretation or
enforcement of this chapter, including disputes regarding the issuance of
permits, or the concurrence or nonconcurrence of the chair in permits required
under other ordinances or laws, or the abatement of nuisances. The decision of
a majority of the appointed members of the appearance review committee with
regard to such dispute shall be binding upon the chair. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to limit the jurisdiction of any court of law
with respect to such disputes. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
5-5-5: DUTIES OF CHAIR OF APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Serve As Arborist: The chair of the appearance review committee is
hereby designated and established as the arborist hereunder.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duties: The chair shall perform the following duties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The chair, with the assistance of the appearance review committee,
shall develop, and each subsequent year update, the urban forestry plan. The
plan shall outline urban forestry program activities for a minimum of the next
five (5) years. This plan shall describe the urban forestry activities to be
undertaken by the city, the reasons for those activities, the possible funding
source(s), the means of accomplishing the activities, the alternatives
available to the city to fund or accomplish the activity, the projected date of
completion, and the consequences if the activity is not completed. Activities
may include, but are not limited to, street tree inventory, tree planting, tree
removal, beautification projects, and educational projects.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The chair, with the assistance of the appearance review committee,
shall develop and periodically review and revise, as necessary, the
arboricultural specifications manual. This manual shall contain regulations and
standards for the planting, maintenance, and removal of trees, shrubs and other
plants upon the city owned property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Upon application to and approval by the city council, the chair and/
or appearance review committee may engage the services of an arborist, land
planner, ecological engineer, or such consultant as may be required to aid and
consult the chair and/or the appearance review committee in technical matters.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The chair shall cause the urban forestry plan and the arboricultural
specifications manual, and all revisions and amendments thereto, to be
published and promulgated and shall cause three (3) copies of the manual, and
all revisions and amendments thereto, to be available for public inspection at
the office of the city clerk. Notice that such information is available for
public inspection shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation with
the county at least one weekday of each of four (4) consecutive weeks
immediately following the initial availability of the arboricultural
specifications manual, or revisions or amendments thereto. The arboricultural
specifications manual, and any revisions and additions thereto, shall become
effective on the tenth day following the final publication in a newspaper of
general circulation required under this subsection B4.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The chair shall make available to any interested person copies of
this chapter, information about the activities of the appearance review
committee, copies of the arboricultural specifications manual and copies of the
urban forestry plan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The chair shall administer the urban forestry plan, this chapter and
the provisions of the arboricultural specifications manual.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The chair shall perform whatever acts are necessary, including the
planting and maintenance of trees and the removal of undesirable trees, shrubs,
and other plants located on city owned property, to ensure that all trees,
shrubs, and other plants located on city owned property conform with the urban
forestry plan, the arboricultural specifications manual, and this chapter.
(Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The chair shall issue such permits as are required by this chapter
and shall obtain, as a condition precedent to the issuance of such permits, the
written agreement of each person who applies for such permits that he or she
will comply with the requirements of this chapter, the urban forestry plan, and
with the regulations and standards of the arboricultural specifications manual.
The chair shall have the right to inspect all work performed pursuant to such
permits. If the chair finds that the work performed is not in compliance with
the requirements of this chapter, the urban forestry plan, or with the
regulations or standards of the arboricultural specifications manual, the chair
shall provide written notice of his/her findings to the permit applicant. The
notice shall contain a copy of such findings; and: (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993;
amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The permit shall be nullified and shall be void; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The chair may issue a written order that the permit applicant
cease and desist all work for which the permit was required; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The permit applicant shall be subject to penalty under the terms
of this chapter; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The chair may take steps to correct the results of the
noncomplying work, and the reasonable costs of such steps shall be charged to
the permit applicant; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The chair shall establish a program of public information and
education that will encourage the planting, maintenance, or removal of trees,
shrubs, and other plants on private property in furtherance of the goals of the
urban forestry plan. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
5-5-6: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required; Scope: No person except the chair, an agent of the
chair, or a contractor hired by the chair may perform any of the following acts
without first obtaining from the chair a permit for which no fee shall be
charged, and nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt any person
from the requirements of obtaining any additional permits as are required by
law:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Plant on city owned property, or treat, prune, remove, or otherwise
disturb any tree, shrub, or other plant located on city owned property; except,
that this subsection A1 shall not be construed to prohibit owners of property
adjacent to city owned property from watering or fertilizing, without a permit,
any tree, shrub, or other plant located on such city owned property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Trim, prune, or remove any tree or portions thereof if such tree or
portions thereof reasonably may be expected to fall on city owned property and
thereby cause damage to persons or property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Place on city owned property, either above or below ground level, a
container for trees, shrubs, or other plants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Damage, cut, tap, carve, or transplant any tree, shrub, or other
plant located on city owned property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Attach any rope, wire, nail, sign, poster, or any other manmade
object to any tree, shrub, or other plant located on city owned property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Dig a tunnel or trench on city owned property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Issuance Of Permit; Conditions: Within seven (7) days of receipt of the
application, the chair shall issue a permit to perform, within thirty (30) days
of the day of issuance, any of the acts specified in subsection A of this
section, for which a permit is requested whenever:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Such acts would result in the abatement of a public nuisance; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Such acts are not inconsistent with the development and
implementation of the urban forestry plan or with any regulations or standards
of the arboricultural specifications manual; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Whenever an application has been signed by the applicant and
submitted to the chair detailing the location, number, size, and species of
trees, shrubs, or other plants that will be affected by such acts, setting
forth the purpose of such acts and the methods to be used, and presenting any
additional information that the chair may find reasonably necessary; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The applicant agrees to perform the work for which the permit is
sought in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the urban forestry
plan and with the regulations and standards set forth in the arboricultural
specifications manual; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The applicant certifies that he or she has read and understands
those provisions of the urban forestry plan, this chapter and the
arboricultural specifications manual which are pertinent to the work for which
the permit is sought; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â If the work for which a permit is issued entails the felling of any
tree or part thereof located on private property which, as a result of such
felling, reasonably may be expected to fall upon city owned property, and if
such felling is done by one other than the owner of the property on which such
felling is done, then the applicant shall agree to indemnify and to hold the
city harmless for all damages resulting from work conducted pursuant to the
permit and shall deposit with the city clerk a liability insurance policy in
the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person, three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) per accident for bodily injury liability
and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) aggregate for property damage
liability, which policy shall name the city as an additional insured.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Application To Public Utility Companies: Nothing in this section shall
be construed to exempt public utility companies or their agents from any of the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
5-5-7: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nuisances Declared: The following are hereby declared public nuisances
under this chapter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any dead or dying tree, shrub, or other plant, whether located on
city owned property or on private property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any otherwise healthy tree, shrub, or other plant, whether located
on city owned property or on private property, which harbors insects or
diseases which reasonably may be expected to injure or harm any tree, shrub, or
other plant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any tree, shrub or other plant, or portion thereof, whether located
on city owned property or on private property, which, by reason of location or
other condition, constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety, or
welfare of the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any tree, shrub or other plant, or portion thereof, whether located
on city owned property or on private property, which obstructs the free passage
of pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which obstructs a street sign on city
property, or which obstructs the view of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any tree, shrub or other plant, or portion thereof, whether located
on city owned property or on private property, which dangerously obstructs the
view as such may be determined by the city engineer pursuant to this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Right To Inspect: The officers, agents, servants and employees of the
city have the authority to enter onto private property whereon there is located
a tree, shrub, plant or plant part that is suspected to be a public nuisance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Abatement: The following are the prescribed means of abating public
nuisances under this chapter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any public nuisance under this chapter which is located on city
owned property shall be pruned, removed, or otherwise treated by the arborist
in whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement of the nuisance within a
reasonable time after its discovery.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any public nuisance under this chapter which is located on privately
owned property shall be pruned, removed, or otherwise treated by the property
owner or his/her agent in whatever fashion is required to cause the abatement
of the nuisance. No property owner may be found guilty of violating this
subsection C2 unless and until the following requirements of notice have been
satisfied: (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Written notice shall be personally served or sent by registered
mail to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the
last preceding year. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Such notice shall describe the kind of tree, shrub, or other
plant or plant part which has been declared to be a public nuisance, its
location on the property, and the reason for declaring it a nuisance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Such notice shall describe the premises by legal description or
by common description.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Such notice shall state the actions that the property owner may
undertake to abate the nuisance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Such notice will require the elimination of the nuisance no less
than thirty (30) days after the notice is delivered or sent to the person to
whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes for the last preceding year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â In the event that the nuisance is not abated by the date
specified in the notice, the chair is authorized to cause the abatement of said
nuisance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The chair is empowered to cause the immediate abatement of any
public nuisance; provided, that the nuisance is determined by the chair to be
an immediate threat to any person or property. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
5-5-8: INTERFERENCE WITH CHAIR OF APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE PROHIBITED:
No person shall unreasonably hinder, prevent, delay, or interfere with the
chair or his/her agents while engaged in the execution or enforcement of this
chapter. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
5-5-9: APPEALS:
Any party who elects to dispute any action or decision by the chair or
appearance review committee shall be entitled to appeal to the city council for
a final determination. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
5-5-10: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation who violates any
provision of this chapter or who fails to comply with any notice issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, upon being found guilty of
violation, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each separate offense. Each day during which any violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993; amd. Ord. 99-O-09, 2-16-1999)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this chapter,
the injury, mutilation, or death of a tree, shrub, or other plant located on
city owned property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement of such tree,
shrub, or other plant shall be borne by the party in violation. The replacement
value of trees and shrubs shall be determined in accordance with the latest
revision of "A Guide To The Professional Evaluation Of Landscape Trees,
Specimen Shrubs, And Evergreens", as published by the International Society of
Arboriculture.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In addition to any penalty or fine levied under this section, any
person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of any provision
of this chapter shall pay any and all reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
city in enforcing this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In the event the city deems it necessary to bring any court action to
enforce this chapter, there shall be assessed against any person, partnership,
firm, or corporation violating this chapter all reasonable costs, expenses and
attorney fees incurred by the city in bringing said action in addition to the
fines provided herein. (Ord. 93-O-24, 8-3-1993)
CHAPTER 6
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CLEANUP
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definition
5-6-2: Cleanup Ordered; Costs
5-6-3: Remedies Are Additional
5-6-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this chapter, "hazardous materials" shall be defined as any
substance or material in a quantity or form which, in the determination of the
fire chief or police chief, or their authorized representatives, poses an
unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health or safety of persons or
property or to the ecological balance of the environment, and shall include,
but not be limited to, such substances as explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products, gases, poisons, etiologic (biologic) agents,
flammables or corrosives. (Ord. 92-O-40, 9-1-1992)
5-6-2: CLEANUP ORDERED; COSTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The fire chief or the police chief, or their authorized
representatives, are authorized to order the cleanup or abatement of the
effects of any hazardous materials deposited upon or into property or
facilities of the city, and any person or persons or corporation, partnership,
firm or entity who intentionally, negligently, or otherwise causes such
deposits shall be liable for the payment of all costs incurred as a result of
such cleanup or abatement by the city, including, but not limited to, actual
labor costs of city personnel (including workers' compensation benefits, fringe
benefits, and administrative overhead), costs of equipment operation, materials
or manpower obtained directly by the city, and any contract labor and
materials. However, the authority to recover costs under this subsection shall
not include costs of actual fire suppression services which are normally or
usually provided by the fire department.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The fire chief or his authorized representative shall cause a statement
of all sums due the city to be mailed to such person or persons or corporation,
partnership, firm or entity which is determined to be liable for the sums as
set forth herein. Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the city, said sums
shall be remitted in full to the city within thirty (30) days from the date of
mailing of such statement. If such sums have not been paid in full within said
time period, said sums shall accrue interest thereafter at the rate of eighteen
percent (18%) per annum. Further, in addition to any sums levied under this
section, any person or persons, partnership, firm, entity or corporation
failing to make payment as required herein shall pay any and all reasonable
attorney fees and costs incurred by the city in enforcing this chapter. (Ord.
92-O-40, 9-1-1992)
5-6-3: REMEDIES ARE ADDITIONAL:
The remedies provided by this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies or penalties provided by law. (Ord. 92-O-40, 9-1-1992)
CHAPTER 7
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-7-1: Noise
5-7-2: Exceptions
5-7-3: Penalties
5-7-1: NOISE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to make, continue or
cause to be made or continued any loud, disturbing, unnecessary or unusual
noise, or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures and endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
unnecessary, or unusual noises in violation of this chapter, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Horns, Signaling Devices, And The Like: The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, motorbus or other vehicle on
any street or public place of the city, except as a danger warning; the
creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or
harsh sound; the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and
unreasonable period of time; the use of any signaling device, except one
operated by hand or electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device
operated by engine exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when
traffic is for any reason held up.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Radios, Phonographs, And The Like: The using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of the neighboring inhabitants between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. with louder volume than is necessary for
convenient hearing for the persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary listeners
thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or
device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of two hundred
fifty feet (250') from the building, structure or vehicle in which it is
located between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Amplifiers For Advertising: The using, operating or permitting to be
played, used or operated any radio receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public streets for the
purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public to
any building or structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Yelling, Shouting, And The Like: Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing on the public streets at any time or place so as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any persons in the vicinity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Animals, Birds, And The Like: The keeping of any animal or bird
which by causing noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Steam Whistles: The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper
city authorities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Exhaust: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle, except through
a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive
noises therefrom.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Defect In Vehicle Or Load: The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such a manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Loading And Unloading; Opening Boxes: The creation of a loud and
excessive noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the
opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Construction Or Repairing Of Buildings: The erection, including
excavating, demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than between
the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on weekdays,
except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety,
and then only with a permit from the building official which permit may be
granted for a period not to exceed three (3) days or less while the emergency
continues and which permit may be renewed for periods of three (3) days or less
while the emergency continues. The building official determines that the public
health and safety will not be impaired by the erection, demolition, alteration
or repair of any building or the excavation of streets and highways within the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., and if he shall
further determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any person in
interest, he may grant permission for such work to be done within the hours of
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., upon application being
made at the time the permit for the work is awarded or during the progress of
the work.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals: The creation of any excessive
noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church or
court while the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital, which unreasonably
interferes with the workings of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly
annoys patients in the hospital; provided, that conspicuous signs are displayed
in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or court street.
This subsection does not apply to authorized emergency vehicles. It shall also
be unlawful for any person to disturb any congregation or assembly meeting for
religious worship by making a noise or by rude and indecent behavior or profane
discourse within the place of worship, or so near the same as to disturb the
order and solemnity of the meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Hawkers, Peddlers: The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and
vendors which disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Drums: The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance, show
or sale. This subsection shall not apply to performances or shows that are part
of a city, school or other public or community event sanctioned by the city,
including festivals, music concerts, parades and street and other fairs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Transportation Of Metal Rails, Pillars And Columns: The
transportation of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material,
over and along streets and other public places upon vehicles or in any other
manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet
of such streets or other public places.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Pile Drivers, Hammers, And The Like: The operation between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of any pile
driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or
other appliance, the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â Blowers: The operation of any noise creating blower or power fan or
any internal combustion engine or air conditioner, the operation of which
causes noise due to the explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the
noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine or air conditioner is
equipped with a muffling device sufficient to deaden such noise.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17.Â Â Â Mobile Food Dispenser Vehicles:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The use by mobile food dispenser vehicles or their operators of
noisemaking advertising devices, including, but not limited to, amplifiers,
bells, recordings, horns, whistles, rattles, gongs, piano or other musical
instruments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Mobile food dispenser vehicles shall not be operated on public or
private property within two (2) blocks of the lot line of any primary or
secondary school within two (2) hours after such school is closed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Mobile food dispenser vehicles shall not be operated in the city
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on any day
between August 25 and June 30 when a public elementary or public secondary
school operated in a school district encompassing any part of the city is open,
provided that the school is attended by students residing within the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Mobile food dispenser vehicles while operating in any residential
area shall move a minimum distance of one block every ten (10) minutes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 18.Â Â Â Sound Devices: The playing, use, operation or permitting to be
played, used or operated, any radio, tape recorder, cassette player or other
device for receiving broadcast sound or reproducing recorded sound if the
device is located on the public way or in any motor vehicle on the public way,
and the sound generated by the device is clearly audible to a person with
normal hearing at a distance greater than seventy five feet (75'). For purposes
of this subsection, "public place" means any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or
alleyway, plaza, park driveway, parking lot, or transportation facility or the
doorways and entranceway to any building which fronts on any of the aforesaid
places or any other public way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 19.Â Â Â Operation Of Machinery Or Equipment: The operation of any
apparatus, machinery or equipment including, but not limited to, construction
apparatus, machinery or equipment and any apparatus, machinery or equipment
used for building or home maintenance and repair or lawn maintenance, wherein
said apparatus, machinery, or equipment can be heard beyond the boundaries of
the property on which the apparatus, machinery or equipment is being used, is
prohibited within the city, other than between the hours of seven thirty
o'clock (7:30) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on weekdays, the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on Saturdays, and the
hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on Sundays,
within all residential zoning districts of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 20.Â Â Â Live Music: The playing of live music outdoors, in both residential
and business districts, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. Sunday through Thursday and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Friday through Saturday. (Ord. 15-O-23, 5-5-2015)
5-7-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The following shall not be cause for a violation or offense under this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The operation of sirens or other warning devices by ambulances,
firetrucks or other emergency vehicles when responding to or attending to an
emergency situation, or by city or other governmental entity for the purpose of
alerting or otherwise warning the public of imminent danger;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Noise emitted by vehicles or other machinery operated by or on behalf
of the city or another governmental entity for the purposes of operating
emergency generators, snowplowing, mosquito abatement or for emergencies or
general maintenance;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Noise generated as part of a city, school or other public or community
event sanctioned by the city, including festivals, music concerts, parades and
street or other fairs;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Noise emitted or generated in the operation of a mass transit system or
by aircraft;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Noise emitted by church bells, chimes and carillons;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Noise emitted by residential home generators during an electric power
outage. (Ord. 16-O-40, 8-16-2016)
5-7-3: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be subject
to a penalty of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a first violation within the past twelve
(12) months, not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within the
past twelve (12) months and not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor
more than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) for a third or subsequent
violation within the past twelve (12) months, with each and every day that the
violation is allowed to remain in effect being deemed a complete and separate
offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the city may take such
other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and conditions of this
chapter, including, without limitation, an action in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms of this chapter shall
be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the payment of court
costs and reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 12-O-31, 7-10-2012)
CHAPTER 8
GARBAGE, REFUSE AND RECYCLING
SECTION:
5-8-1: Purpose
5-8-2: Definitions
5-8-3: Recycling Program Established
5-8-4: Recycling Program
5-8-5: Organic Materials Program Established
5-8-6: Collection Of Recyclable Materials By Unauthorized Persons
5-8-7: Public Notice And Education
5-8-8: Required Use Of Contractor Services
5-8-9: Fees
5-8-10: Preparation Of Residential Solid Waste For Collection
5-8-11: Containers For Solid Waste, Organics, And Recyclables At Commercial
Establishments
5-8-12: Frequency Of Collection
5-8-13: Collection Practices
5-8-14: Dumping Or Transporting Into City
5-8-15: Manager's Authority And Duties; Rules And Appeals
5-8-16: Violations And Penalties
5-8-17: Lien For Removal
5-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the city of Highwood by regulating the collection, storage,
transportation, removal, recycling, dumping, depositing and disposal of solid
waste materials generated or located within the city by:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Instituting a comprehensive residential solid waste management program.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Establishing a mandatory recycling, organics, and garbage collection
program. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings as set forth in this section, unless the context in which such
word, term or phrase is used clearly indicates otherwise:
ALUMINUM: The lightweight ductile and malleable metallic substance or element
commonly known as aluminum and shall include all empty aluminum food and
beverage cans, except aluminum foil, trays, plates and miscellaneous aluminum
products.
ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
BIMETALLIC CANS: All food and beverage containers consisting of a steel
(ferrous) cylinder and bottom and aluminum top.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Those properties used primarily for commercial or
industrial purposes, excluding, however, those establishments which are
institutional or municipal as hereinafter defined. In addition, "commercial
establishment" shall include multi-family rental housing properties with four
(4) or more units.
CONTRACTOR: The person, partnership, firm, corporation or other business entity
designated by the city council, by means of a contract, to have the exclusive
right and privilege to collect, haul, carry, remove and dispose of all garbage,
trash, ashes, rubbish, refuse and recyclable materials from residential
establishments within the city.
CORRUGATED PAPER: Paper or pasteboard contracted into parallel grooves and
ridges, commonly referred to as "cardboard", which is used for wrapping,
packing, shipping and/or storage.
DWELLING: A building used for residential purposes, except hotels, boarding and
lodging houses, tourist cabins and motels.
DWELLING UNIT: A living area comprised of one or more rooms used for living and
sleeping purposes and having its own kitchen with fixed cooking, refrigeration
and plumbing facilities, and its own sanitation facilities with bath and toilet
fixtures, all arranged for occupancy by one person, one family or more than one
person living together as a family unit.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food including all table refuse, animal
and vegetable matter, offal from meat, fish and fowl, fruits, vegetables and
parts thereof and all other articles and materials ordinarily used for food
which have become unfit for such use or which are for any reason discarded
except those defined under "organics or organic material".
GLASS: The hard, brittle, transparent or partially transparent substance
produced by the fusion of silica and silicates or sand containing soda and lime
and/or other chemicals and substances usually or conveniently included in the
manufacture of glass; and shall for the purpose of this chapter include all
materials commonly known as glass bottles or containers. This definition
includes all food and beverage containers made of clear or colored glass.
Excluded from this definition are blue glass, ceramics, pottery and flat glass
commonly known as "window" or "plate" glass.
HDPE: High density polyethylene.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any chemical compound, mixture, substance or article, which is
designated by the United States environmental protection agency or any
appropriate agency of the state of Illinois to be "hazardous" as that term is
defined by or pursuant to federal or state law.
HIGH GRADE OFFICE PAPER: Printed or unprinted sheets, shavings and cuttings of
sulphite or sulphate ledger, bond, writing and other pages, which have similar
fiber and filler content. This grade must be free of treated, coated, padded or
heavily printed stock. This includes lightweight office papers, i.e., bond,
copy paper and onion skin, as well as computer paper.
INSTITUTIONAL ESTABLISHMENT: Those facilities that house or serve groups of
people for a common purpose, including, but not limited to, hospitals, nursing
homes, daycare centers, group homes, libraries and nonprofit associations.
LEAF WASTE: Leaves, garden residues, shrubbery and tree trimmings and similar
material, but not including grass clippings.
MANAGER: The city manager duly appointed by the city council.
MATERIAL: Includes garbage, trash, ashes, refuse and rubbish.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: A residence having two (2) or more dwelling units per
structure.
MUNICIPAL ESTABLISHMENT: Public facilities operated by the city of Highwood and
other governmental authorities.
MUNICIPALITY: The city of Highwood, Lake County, Illinois.
NEWSPAPER: Types of paper made from wood pulp and/or other fibrous materials
mixed together, either with or without chemicals, to produce thin sheets of the
products customarily and primarily used for the production of newsprint;
"newspaper" does not include magazine paper.
ORGANICS/ORGANIC MATERIAL: Food scraps as defined at 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3.197 and landscape waste as defined herein.
OWNER: The actual owner of a dwelling as indicated in the real estate records
of Lake County.
PET: Polyethylene terephthalate.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, institution,
cooperative enterprise or other entity. In any provisions of this chapter
prescribing a fine, imprisonment or penalty, or any combination of the
foregoing, the term "person" shall include the officers and directors of any
corporation or other legal entity having officers or directors.
PLASTIC: A class of synthetic organic compounds capable of being molded,
extruded, cast, or otherwise fabricated into various shapes. It includes #1
high density polyethylene (HDPE) and #2 polyethylene terephthalate (PET). It
excludes low density polyethylene (LDPE), polypropylene (PP) and
polyvinylchloride (PVC).
PROCESSING CENTER: Any facility maintained for the purpose of storing,
preparing and/or consolidating, recyclable materials for sale.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Includes colored and clear glass, aluminum, steel cans,
bimetallic cans, plastic, newspaper, magazines, junk mail, empty aerosol cans,
leaf waste and such other materials as the city council may designate from time
to time by ordinance.
RECYCLING: The separation, collection, recovery and sale or reuse of metals,
glass, paper, leaf waste, plastics and other materials, which would otherwise
be disposed or processed as solid waste or the mechanized separation and
treatment of solid waste (other than through combustion) and creation and
recovery of reusable materials other than a fuel for the generation of energy.
RECYCLING COLLECTION SERVICES: The following services to be performed by the
contractor: a) collection and conveyance of recyclable materials; b) processing
of recyclable materials as applicable; and c) marketing of the recyclable
materials.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (excluding body
wastes), but including garbage, trash, rubbish, ashes and street cleanings.
RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any occupied single- or multi-family dwelling,
except multi-family dwellings with four (4) or more units.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: Garbage, ashes, refuse, rubbish, trash and other
nonsewage or nonwastewater waste materials normally generated in domestic
family living, but shall exclude hazardous waste and leaf waste.
SOLID WASTE: Refuse, rubbish, garbage, ashes, trash and any other nonsewage or
nonwastewater waste materials excluding hazardous waste and leaf waste.
SOURCE SEPARATED RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Recyclable materials that are separated
from solid waste at the point of origin for the purpose of recycling.
STEEL CANS: Empty, all-steel (ferrous) beverage and food containers. (Ord. 15-
O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-3: RECYCLING PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a program for the mandatory source separation of
recyclable materials from solid waste by persons located in the city of
Highwood. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-4: RECYCLING PROGRAM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Residential Establishments:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residents of residential establishments are hereby required to
source separate all recyclable materials as specified by the city from other
solid waste generated at their homes, apartments, dwelling units and other
residential establishments and to store such materials in compliance with city
ordinances until collection. The recyclable materials that are required to be
separated from solid waste are: aluminum, bimetallic cans, steel cans, clear
and colored glass, plastic (#1 HDPE and #2 PET), newspaper, magazines, junk
mail and empty aerosol cans.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Recyclable materials from residential establishments shall be placed
at the curb or other similar area, separate from other solid waste, for
collection at such times as are established by the contract with the
contractor, which shall be at least once each week.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Commercial, Institutional And Municipal Establishments:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Commercial, institutional and municipal establishments are hereby
required to separate all recyclable material as specified by the city, or by
the contractor, from solid waste and to store such materials in compliance with
city ordinances until collection. The recyclable materials that are required to
be separated from solid waste by commercial, institutional and municipal
establishments are: aluminum, high grade office paper and corrugated paper and
leaf waste.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The owner, landlord or agent of an owner or landlord of multi-
family rental housing properties with four (4) or more units may comply with
its responsibilities under this section by establishing a collection system for
recyclable materials at each property. The collection system must include
suitable containers for collecting and sorting materials, easily accessible
locations for the containers and written instructions to the occupants
concerning the use and availability of the collection system. Owners, landlords
and agents of owners or landlords who comply with this section shall not be
liable for noncompliance of occupants of their buildings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The city shall exempt persons occupying commercial (including multi-
family rental housing properties with 4 or more units), institutional and
municipal establishments within its boundaries from the requirements of the
curbside recycling program if those persons have otherwise provided for the
recycling of materials required to be recycled in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-5: ORGANIC MATERIALS PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
All persons who reside in residential establishments or commercial,
institutional, and municipal establishments who produce organic material waste
shall source separate all organic waste for proper disposal in the manner
prescribed by the city unless those persons have otherwise provided for the
composting of organic waste. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-6: COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS:
From the time of placement of recyclable materials at the curb or similar area
for collection in accordance with this chapter, those materials shall become
the property of the city and the contractor. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person not authorized by the city to collect or pick up or
cause to be collected or picked up any such recyclable material. Any and each
such collection in violation of this chapter from one or more locations shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense punishable as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-7: PUBLIC NOTICE AND EDUCATION:
The city shall establish a comprehensive and sustained public information and
education program concerning recycling program features and requirements as
required by the municipal waste planning, organics, recycling and waste
reduction act. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-8: REQUIRED USE OF CONTRACTOR SERVICES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city council, after public advertisement of competitive bids, shall
designate one hauler as the contractor for all residential hauling and one
hauler as the contractor for commercial hauling. The contractor shall have the
exclusive right and obligation to collect and haul all solid waste, organics,
and recyclable materials from all residential or all commercial, as
appropriate, establishments in the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of a residential or
commercial establishment to dispose of solid waste, organics, and recyclable
materials except by the methods prescribed by this chapter. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-
24-2015)
5-8-9: FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Residential Establishments: The fee for collection and disposal of
residential solid waste and organics from residential establishments shall be
fixed by contract between the city and contractor. The contractor or the city
shall be solely responsible for collection of fees for service directly from
the owner, occupant or other responsible person in the manner set forth in the
contract between the city and contractor, including, but not limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â City: The city may collect the charges by billing the residential
property owners on a monthly basis or periodic basis. The city may place the
appropriate charge on the monthly or bimonthly utility statements sent to the
property owners or may use separate billing statements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Contractor: The authorized contractor shall be responsible for
billing the residential and commercial customers in accordance with the
agreement.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Commercial, Institutional And Municipal Establishments: Fees for
collection from other than residential establishments shall be set by contract
between the city and the chosen contractor and shall be paid directly to the
person making such collection. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-10: PREPARATION OF RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE FOR COLLECTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Preparation Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All recyclable materials shall be source separated from all other
residential solid waste, colored and clear glass, plastic, bimetallic cans and
steel cans thoroughly rinsed with lids removed. Recyclable material may be
commingled in a special container provided by the contractor for collection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All garbage shall be thoroughly drained of all liquid and wrapped in
paper before being placed in the container.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All organic waste shall be separated from the recyclable and garbage
and placed in a separate container for pick up.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Nonrecyclable printed matter not placed in containers shall be
securely tied in bundles not exceeding fifty (50) pounds in weight with twine
or string or bagged.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Containers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All recyclable materials shall be placed in a special container
provided by the contractor. Newspaper, magazines and junk mail shall be either
securely tied in bundles of not more than sixty (60) pounds with twine or
string or bagged in paper bags prior to placement in the recycling container.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All residential solid waste, except recyclable materials, shall be
placed in containers or durable plastic bags as deemed acceptable by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Organic waste collected from residential establishments shall be
placed curbside in the designated container at the times set forth by the city.
Shrubbery, tree trimmings and similar materials shall be cut in lengths not to
exceed four feet (4') and shall be securely tied in bundles of not more than
fifty (50) pounds for collection and shall be placed curbside at the times set
forth by the city, or taken to the city's compost facility. No organics shall
be placed in a plastic bag for disposal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Containers (other than containers for recyclable materials) shall be
of durable, watertight, rust resistant materials having a close fitting lid
with handles with a capacity of not more than forty (40) gallons and shall be
of such size as can be handled easily by one man, or durable and watertight
plastic bags. The maximum weight of a filled plastic bag shall be limited to
such weight as will not cause the bag to break when lifted and carried to
contractor's equipment and no more than forty (40) pounds.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Containers containing garbage shall be covered with a lid, which
fits securely and prevents access to rodents and insects. Plastic bags shall be
secured or tied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to permit the accumulation of liquids or the
residue thereof, solids or a combination of such material on the bottom or
sides of containers, it being the intention of this provision that the interior
and exterior of containers shall be kept clean by thoroughly rinsing and
draining as often as necessary.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â All containers shall be kept in a clean condition and shall be kept
in good condition. Any container that does not conform with this chapter or
that is likely to injure the contractor or his employees, or hampers the prompt
collection of refuse, shall be replaced on notice. Failure to replace such
defective container may result in the termination of service until such time as
a suitable container is provided.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accumulation Of Residential Solid Waste:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall place or cause to be placed any residential solid
waste upon any street, alley or other public place, or upon any private
property, whether owned by such person or not, except if it is in proper
receptacles for collection or properly bundled as herein provided for
collection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No person shall deposit residential solid waste in any stream or any
other body of water.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No person shall maliciously spill or scatter the contents of any
waste container or plastic bag, or damage or destroy any such container or
plastic bag.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No person, except the occupant of the premises on which the waste
container or plastic bag is placed or an authorized collector shall remove the
lid of the container and/or remove the contents of such container or plastic
bag.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Location Of Containers: Solid waste, recyclables and organic
containers, plastic bags and bundles shall be placed at the curbside on public
streets in advance of the scheduled time for collection.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Limitation On Time Of Placement Of Containers: No person shall place
any container of residential solid waste, organics, or recyclables for
collection pursuant to this chapter earlier than six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the
day preceding the date of collection by the contractor. The container shall be
removed from curbside the same day of collection, and be placed where it is not
visible from the front of the house. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-11: CONTAINERS FOR SOLID WASTE, ORGANICS, AND RECYCLABLES AT COMMERCIAL
ESTABLISHMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to permit the accumulation of liquids or the residue
thereof, solids or a combination of such material on the bottom or sides of
containers used for solid waste, organics, and recyclables at commercial
establishments, it being the intention of this provision that the interior and
exterior of containers for commercial establishments shall be kept clean by
thoroughly rinsing and draining as often as necessary. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-
2015)
5-8-12: FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Solid waste, organics, and recyclable materials produced in residential
establishments shall be collected once each week.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Organic materials from residential establishments shall be collected
weekly during the summer and fall months in accordance with a schedule
established by the city or established by the contractor with the approval of
the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Shrubbery, tree trimmings and similar materials from residential
establishments shall be collected curbside in accordance with a schedule
established by the city or may be deposited at a city designated site, if the
city so chooses such a site.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Solid waste, organics, and recyclable materials produced in commercial,
institutional and municipal establishments shall be collected at least once
each week. If necessary to protect public health and sanitation, solid waste
produced in such establishments shall be collected more frequently upon written
notification by the city. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-13: COLLECTION PRACTICES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Collection Vehicles: All vehicles used for the collection or removal of
material shall be of metal or other durable body, securely covered, watertight,
strongly built, kept thoroughly cleansed and well painted. Open trucks or
trucks covered with tarpaulins are not acceptable.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Handling Of Containers: Contractor shall handle all receptacles and
containers as carefully and quietly as possible and shall return (not throw)
them to the location where found. All handling, collection and transportation
of solid waste, organics, and recyclables shall be done in such a manner that
no spilling, leaking or strewing shall occur, either on such premises or on the
streets of the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Vehicle Inspection: The city shall have the right to inspect any
collection vehicle at any time and place while it is being used within the
city. In addition, the contractor shall make vehicles available for inspection
whenever so requested by the city at a specific time and place.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Contractor To Collect Unlimited Number Of Containers: The contractor
shall collect an unlimited number of containers, plastic bags and bundles of
the authorized size and weight from residential establishments.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Conformance With All Applicable Regulations: The collection practices
of the contractor and any other person removing solid waste, organics, and
recyclable materials from the city shall conform to all applicable statutes,
ordinances, regulations and rules of the state of Illinois, Lake County, the
city and any contract or contracts between the parties.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Special Waste:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Removal of wearing apparel, bedding or other waste materials from
homes or other places where highly infectious or contagious diseases have
prevailed shall be performed under the supervision and direction of the
manager. Such material shall not be placed for regular collection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Highly flammable or explosive materials shall not be placed for
regular collection, but shall be disposed of as directed by the manager at the
expense of the owner or possessor thereof. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-14: DUMPING OR TRANSPORTING INTO CITY:
No person shall dump, deposit or otherwise dispose of solid waste, recyclables,
garbage, ashes, rubbish, or refuse of any kind or nature within the
jurisdictional limits of the city. No person shall transport or bring any
garbage, rubbish, trash, refuse, other solid waste or recyclables into the city
for the purpose of disposal and/or collection. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-15: MANAGER'S AUTHORITY AND DUTIES; RULES AND APPEALS:
The manager shall be charged with the administration of the provisions of this
chapter. He shall have authority to make rules and regulations relating to the
administration of the provisions of this chapter in addition to any other
powers herein conferred upon him, provided that such rules and regulations are
not contrary to the provisions hereof. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-16: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
5-8-17: LIEN FOR REMOVAL:
Each owner of real property shall cause all garbage, refuse and waste to be
removed from such property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
If, after ten (10) days from receipt of notice from the city, any owner of real
property refuses or neglects to cause any garbage, refuse or waste to be
removed from such property, the city shall have the right to enter such
property and remove such of the above at the owner's expense. The costs
incurred by the city in such removal shall be a lien upon the real property
affected in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-20-13, as amended, and in accordance with any further amendments thereto.
(Ord. 15-O-51, 9-24-2015)
CHAPTER 9
PUBIC CAMPING
SECTION:
5-9-1: Public Camping As A Nuisance
5-9-2: Regulation Of Public Camping Necessary To Promote Public Health
5-9-3: Public Camping Not Intended Use Of Public Property
5-9-4: Definitions
5-9-5: Public Camping Prohibited
5-9-6: Exceptions To Prohibition
5-9-7: Removal Of Campsite
5-9-8: Disposition And Release Of Personal Property
5-9-9: Penalty; Mitigation
5-9-1:Â Â Â PUBLIC CAMPING AS A NUISANCE:
Public Camping, as the term is defined herein, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance within the City for the reasons identified in the findings of
Ordinance 24-O-12. (Ord. 24-O-12, 9-3-2024)
5-9-2:Â Â Â REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH:
In an effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the City
Council hereby declares it necessary or expedient for the promotion of health
or the suppression of diseases, to regulate Public Camping, as that term is
defined herein, within the City's corporate limits. (Ord. 24-O-12, 9-3-2024)
5-9-3:Â Â Â PUBLIC CAMPING NOT INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the City in any
subsequent ordinance, the City hereby declares that none of its property is
permitted nor intended to be used for Public Camping, as the term is defined
herein. (Ord. 24-O-12, 9-3-2024)
5-9-4:Â Â Â DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
BEDDING: A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding purposes.
CAMPSITE: Any physical space that is not within an established structure, where
bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY: Items which would otherwise constitute personal
property under the terms of this chapter, but which (i) has no apparent utility
or monetary value; (ii) personal property which is unsanitary to store or
otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed illegally; (iv) drug
paraphernalia; (v) items appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person cannot demonstrate the
requisite lawful authority to possess; and, (vii) any items of food which can
reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish within the next thirty (30)
days.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a person
and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for exempt personal
property.
PUBLIC CAMPING: To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the act of
remaining in or at, a campsite. (Ord. 24-O-12, 9-3-2024)
5-9-5:Â Â Â PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the City.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No person may park a vehicle overnight within the City for the purpose
of sleeping or otherwise engaging in public camping in said vehicle.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two (2) consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the City for the purpose of
public camping, for two (2) consecutive hours without permission from the City
Council, between the hours of midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., shall be
considered a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 24-O-12, 9-3-2024)
5-9-6:Â Â Â EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to engage in public
camping when done (i) in a manner specifically authorized by this Code; (ii)
after a formal declaration of the City in emergency circumstances; or, (iii)
upon resolution of the City Council, the same may exempt a special event from
the prohibitions of this section, if the City Council finds such exemption to
be in the public interest and consistent with the goals and objectives of the
City Council, and with such conditions imposed as the City Council deems
necessary. Any conditions imposed will include a condition requiring that the
applicant provide evidence of adequate insurance coverage and agree to
indemnify the City for any liability, damage or expense incurred by the City as
a result of the activities of the applicant. Any findings by the City Council
shall specify the exact dates and location covered by the exemption. (Ord. 24-
O-12, 9-3-2024)
5-9-7:Â Â Â REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE:
Removal of a campsite in violation of this chapter may occur under the
following circumstances:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prior to removing a campsite, the City shall post a notice, twenty four
(24) hours in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the campsite
is deemed to be necessary for one of the reasons in subsection A1 through A4,
below. If such immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for causing the
immediate removal of such campsite should be adequately documented by the
appropriate person(s).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain access to
a property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the campsite
is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the campsite
poses a risk to the health and safety of the City and its residents.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Upon any action pursuant to subsection A, above, the person causing
such action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the City, of the location of the campsite
and the persons found to be in violation of this chapter, so said agency may
determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its services to those
persons.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If a twenty four (24) hour notice has been posted, and the twenty four
(24) hour notice period has passed, then the campsite, as well as all personal
property thereon, shall be removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on
behalf of the City.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No portion of this section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in public camping from removing their personal property
from the campsite; however, such personal property that constitutes exempt
personal property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that said
exempt personal property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence. (Ord. 24-O-12, 9-3-2024)
5-9-8:Â Â Â DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All personal property removed from any campsite which is not exempt
personal property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the City, for a minimum of thirty (30) days, during which time it shall be
reasonably available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All exempt personal property may be disposed of or retained as evidence
by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the City. (Ord. 24-O-12, 9-3-2024)
5-9-9:Â Â Â PENALTY; MITIGATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's first violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's second violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's third violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's fourth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's fifth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's sixth or subsequent violation of this
chapter within a rolling twenty-four (24) month period may be a monetary
penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or incarceration for a period
not exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant to Section 1-2-9 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
subsections A through F, above, and if consented to by the City, the penalty
assessed to any person found in violation of this chapter may be that said
person must engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and other
public facilities of the City for an amount of time that, if the person found
to have violated this chapter was being paid the minimum wage under Illinois
law, the amount paid for that person's labors would have been equal to the
monetary penalty assessed under this chapter.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The City is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it, at
law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this chapter, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of said person
for a period of time that conforms with Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal
Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
personal property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this chapter.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â A separate offense of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this chapter, any
person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from the
premises where the campsite is located. (Ord. 24-O-12, 9-3-2024)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Ranks And Duties
6-1-2: Reinstatement Of Police
6-1-3: Disposition Of Sidearms
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT RANKS AND DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Ranks Established: The order and rank and filling of vacancies shall be
determined by the municipal budget at approval of the City Manager.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â One chief of police; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No more than two (2) sergeants of police; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A maximum of nine (9) full time patrol officers.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Chief Of Police: The chief of police shall perform such duties as
are prescribed by his oath of office, the mayor, the statutes of the state, the
ordinances of the city, any applicable employment agreement and the rules and
general orders of the police department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sergeants Of Police: Sergeants of police shall perform such duties
as are prescribed by their oaths of office, the mayor, the statutes of the
state, the ordinances of the city, the chief of police, the deputy chief of
police (if any), the lieutenants of police (if any), and the rules and general
orders of the police department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Patrol Officers: Patrol officers shall perform such duties as are
prescribed by their oaths of office, the mayor, the statutes of the state, the
ordinances of the city, the chief of police, the deputy chief of police (if
any), any lieutenant of police, the sergeants of police (if any) and the rules
and general orders of the police department.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Testing For Appointment Or Promotion: The board of fire and police
commissioners shall test for appointment to and/or promotion to the aforesaid
ranks (other than the rank of chief of police or deputy chief) when vacant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The City shall conduct a promotional process for appointment to and/
or promotion to the aforesaid ranks (other than the rank of Chief of Police,
Deputy Chief, or Commander) when vacant, and upon direction of the City
Manager.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All promotions shall made from the three (3) individuals having the
highest rating on the final promotional list. This promotional list will remain
valid for three (3) years from date of posting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Testing for the ranks of Sergeant and Lieutenant - a promotional
list will be created based upon scores complied from the following criteria:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A minimum five (5) years full-time police service is required to
participate in any promotional testing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Participants shall receive one point for full-time police
experience for every two (2) years (beyond the required minimum five). Maximum
of six (6) points.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Oral interview with the BoFPC. Maximum of seventy (70) points.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Three (3) points for previous police supervision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Educational points - four (4) year degree (four (4) points),
advanced degree (additional two (2) points).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Points will be applied for performance and efficiency. Maximum of
ten (10) points.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Chief of Police merit, maximum of five (5) points.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Within a reasonable amount of time (not to exceed sixty (30) days)
after the completion of the promotional examination process, the Board shall
prepare, certify and post an eligibility register of candidates who shall be
ranked in the order of their relative excellence, as determined by the
examination process and the application of departmental merit and efficiency
considerations, as hereinabove provided. An average grade of seventy-five
percent (75%) of the cumulative sum shall be required for listing on said
register.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The eligibility register shall be posted and all candidates who are
deemed eligible shall be notified thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The Police Chief shall select a candidate to be promoted from among
the three (3) highest ranked candidates on the applicable eligibility list. At
the time of such promotion, the selected candidate must be mentally and
physically able to perform the essential functions of the position. Board
approval shall be necessary for the Police Chief to promote a candidate ranked
either second or third on the eligibility list in lieu of promoting the
candidate to his ranked first. The eligibility register shall remain in effect
for a period of three (3) years from the date of posting, unless said
eligibility register is exhausted prior thereto. No person shall accrue any
property right to a particular position upon the eligibility register, and no
person shall accrue any property right to promotion based upon position upon
the eligibility register. Officers may be removed from the eligibility register
when, in the opinion of the Board, circumstances justify such removal.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Additional Officers: Upon authorization of the mayor, the chief of
police may hire and/or appoint part time patrol officers, auxiliary officers,
community service officers, and temporary officers as may be necessary or
convenient for the safe and efficient operation of the city and to ensure the
public health, safety and welfare. Such officers shall perform such duties as
are prescribed by their oaths of office, the mayor, the statutes of the state,
the ordinances of the city, the chief of police, the deputy chief of police (if
any), any lieutenant of police and the rules and general orders of the police
department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Part time patrol officers shall be subject to the following
provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Authority Of Chief Of Police: The chief of police is authorized
to appoint, discipline and discharge all part time patrol officers, subject to
the advice and consent of the mayor. Part time patrol officers shall be members
of the regular police department except for pension purposes. Part time patrol
officers shall, at all times during the performance of their duties, be subject
to the direction and control of the chief of police.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Hiring Standards: Candidates must be at least twenty one (21)
years of age, possess a high school diploma or GED equivalent, possess a valid
driver's license, be a U.S. citizen and have no prior felony convictions. Prior
to being hired, a part time patrol officer must have previous law enforcement
experience or must obtain certification within eighteen (18) months after the
date of hire, according to 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/8.2. The applicant
must also have a screening and background check, which includes a fingerprint
check through the Illinois criminal history and federal bureau of investigation
(FBI), pass a medical exam, and any further tests deemed necessary by the chief
of police based upon the applicant's experience and prior training. Further,
any individual who has served in the military must have been honorably
discharged.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Training Standards: The part time patrol officer, upon hiring by
the city, shall be trained in accordance with the intergovernmental law
enforcement officer's in-service training act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes
720/1 through 6, and any other rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Powers And Duties: A part time patrol officer shall have all the
powers and duties as a regular member of the police department, but shall not
be assigned under any circumstances to supervise or direct full time police
officers of the city. Part time patrol officers shall not be used as permanent
replacements for permanent full time officers. Part time patrol officers must
abide by all rules, regulations, policies and general orders as set forth by
the chief of police and the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Hours: A part time patrol officer shall not work in excess of one
thousand five hundred sixty (1,560) hours per calendar year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Auxiliary police officers shall be subject to the following
provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Appointment: The chief of police of the city of Highwood may
appoint auxiliary police officers in such a number as deemed necessary from
time to time, with advice and consent of the mayor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Duties And Restrictions: Auxiliary police officers shall not be
members of the regular Highwood police department, shall not be used to replace
full time or part time sworn officers of the Highwood police department, and
shall not supplement members of the regular Highwood police department in the
performance of their assigned and normal duties, except as provided herein.
Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the following
duties in the city:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â To aid with or direct traffic,
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â To aid with or direct crowd control,
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â To aid in control of natural or manmade disasters, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the police
chief; provided, that in cases which render it impractical for members of the
regular police department to perform the normal and regular police duties, the
police chief is hereby authorized to assign auxiliary police officers to assist
sworn police officers in the performance of those sworn police officers' normal
and regular police duties in a case of civil disaster.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Identification: Identification symbols including a badge and
uniform worn by such auxiliary police officers shall be different and distinct
from those used by members of the regular Highwood police department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Supervision: Such auxiliary police shall at all times during the
performance of their duties be subject to the direction and control of the
police chief, or of the superior officer in charge during such period of duty.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Firearms: The auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms,
except with the permission of the police chief and while in uniform and in the
performance of their duties, and only after completing the forty (40) hour
mandatory firearms training course as provided under section 2 of the peace
officer firearm training act 1 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Training: Auxiliary police officers shall be trained in
accordance with all Illinois law enforcement training and standards board
requirements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Conservators Of The Peace: Auxiliary police officers, when on
duty, shall not be conservators of peace, and shall not have the powers
(including arrest powers) as specified in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-
15-25.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Hiring Standards: No person shall be hired as an auxiliary police
officer who has not been fingerprinted, subject to background check, and found
to have never been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral
turpitude. Auxiliary police officer's must be at least twenty one (21) years of
age, have a high school diploma or GED equivalent, and hold a valid Illinois
driver's license. Other hiring standards and testing may be imposed by the
chief of police as deemed necessary. (Ord. 13-O-35, 6-4-2013; amd. Ord. 15-O-
55, 10-6-2015; Ord. 20-O-04, 2-4-2020)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 710/2.
6-1-2: REINSTATEMENT OF POLICE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Petition For Reinstatement: Any police officer who is duly appointed as
such and serves in such capacity and thereafter leaves such employment with the
city may file a petition for reinstatement of his employment with the mayor.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Action By Mayor: The mayor, after consulting with the chief of the
police department, may reinstate the employment of such police officer upon
such terms and conditions as the mayor may deem appropriate, or may decline to
do so, as he may deem advisable in his sole discretion.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Status Of Reinstated Employee: If the mayor elects to reinstate the
employment of such police officer, upon returning to work, the period of time
such employee was not serving the city shall be considered as a furlough or
leave of absence, and his personnel record shall be revised or amended
accordingly. (Ord. 2000-O-53, 9-5-2000)
6-1-3: DISPOSITION OF SIDEARMS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Disposition At Retirement: In the event an officer retires from the
city police department, upon such retirement and upon the request of such
officer, the officer's sidearm duty weapon may be transferred to the officer as
a token of the city's appreciation for the officer's years of service.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obsolete Sidearms: Any sidearms which are determined to be obsolete and
no longer serviceable for duty are hereby declared to be surplus property of
the city. Such sidearms may be made available by the chief of police to
officers in the department as collectibles. Any officer receiving such a
sidearm shall be eligible to receive same including possessing all necessary
state, federal or other permits, and the officer shall sign a receipt for the
sidearm.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Protocol: The chief of police shall establish a protocol and procedure
for availability and distribution of such sidearms including, at a minimum, the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â That prior to distribution, the chief certifies to the mayor that
the type, model, and serial number of the sidearm intended to be disposed of,
providing no less than thirty (30) days' notice to the mayor. In such
certification, the chief shall certify that such sidearm is obsolete for police
department purposes, is surplus property of little or no value to the city and
the chief's proposed disposition of same.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â That upon receipt of such certification and expiration of the thirty
(30) day time period, such sidearm shall be deemed to be surplus city property
unless the mayor delivers a notification to the chief of police that the
sidearm shall not be disposed of as proposed by the chief, but rather shall be
disposed of in another manner to be determined by the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â That any officer receiving such a sidearm shall be eligible to
receive same, including possessing all necessary state, federal or other
permits.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â That the officer shall sign a receipt for the sidearm.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Compliance With Other Regulations: In the disposition of any sidearms,
the city police department shall otherwise comply with all applicable federal,
state and other ordinances and regulations. (Ord. 2004-O-39, 5-4-2004)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
(Rep. by Ord. 16-O-18, 4-19-2016, eff. 7-1-2016)
CHAPTER 3
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Title
6-3-2: Purpose
6-3-3: Definitions
6-3-4: Configuration Regulations
6-3-5: Fire Alarm Systems
6-3-6: False Alarm Fees
6-3-7: Misuse Of Alarm System Prohibited
6-3-8: Maintenance And Inspections
6-3-9: Compliance Required
6-3-10: Enforcement Officials
6-3-11: Penalties
6-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the PUBLIC SAFETY ALARM SYSTEM ORDINANCE. (Ord.
2003-O-26, 5-6-2003; amd. Ord. 20-O-10, 3-3-2020)
6-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth regulations governing burglary,
robbery, fire, and medical alarm systems, and other types of alarm systems,
within the city, to require permits therefor, to provide the authority to
establish fees, and to provide for punishment of violations of provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2003-O-26, 5-6-2003)
6-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall be defined as follows unless it is apparent from the context
that a different meaning is intended:
ALARM HOLDER: The owner of the alarm system, or the person responsible for the
existence of an alarm system within or on a premises.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any mechanical or electrical device that is designed or used for
the detection of a burglary, robbery, fire or need for medical assistance
within a building, structure or facility or for alerting others to the
commission of an unlawful act or hazard or other abnormal condition (such as,
but not limited to, water flow) within a building, structure, or facility, or
both, and which emits a sound or transmits a signal or message when actuated.
"Alarm systems" include, but are not limited to, direct dial telephone devices,
audible alarms and proprietor alarms. Devices which are not designed or used to
register alarms that are audible, visible or perceptible outside of the
protected building, structure or facility are not included within this
definition, nor are auxiliary devices installed by the telephone company to
protect telephone systems that might be damaged or disrupted by the use of an
"alarm system". An "alarm system" includes all of the necessary equipment
designed and installed for the detection of burglary, robbery, fire, need for
medical assistance, other hazard or abnormal condition in a single building,
structure or facility or for alerting others of the commission of an unlawful
act within a building, structure, or facility, or both.
BUILDING OWNER: The person who owns any building, structure or facility which
is subject to any requirement(s) of this chapter.
BURGLAR ALARM: An alarm system activated automatically, signaling an entry or
attempted entry into the area protected by the alarm system.
CENTRAL ANSWERING POINT: An office or place to which alarms are connected and
where operators supervise or monitor such alarms.
CITY: The city of Highwood, Lake County, Illinois.
DIRECT CONNECTION: The method of using a telephone line that has as its sole
use the transmission of an alarm signal or other transmission facility for the
transmission of an alarm signal to a central answering point's monitoring
equipment.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of an alarm system for any reason other than the
detection of a burglary, robbery, fire, need for medical assistance or other
condition which the alarm is designed or intended to detect, within a building,
structure or facility or for alerting others to the commission of an unlawful
act or hazard within a building, structure, or facility, or both, and shall
include, but is not limited to, the activation of the alarm system through
mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation, human error, or the
negligence of the owner or lessee of an alarm system, or his employees or
agents. In addition, the use of an alarm to summon police or fire department
personnel for reasons other than those listed on alarm system permits will also
be considered a "false alarm".
FIRE ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system designed to detect heat, smoke, operation of
a manual fire pull station or alarm, operation of an automatic sprinkler
system, operation of a hood suppression system, or other condition indicating
danger or risk of fire.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The department responsible for emergency fire and EMS services
in the City of Highwood.
HOLDUP ALARM: An alarm system that is activated manually to signal a robbery or
attempted robbery.
LOCAL ALARM: An alarm system that, when activated, causes an audible and/or
visual signal in or on the premises the system is designed to protect. Such
type of alarm may or may not be part of a system to notify a central answering
point.
PERMITTEE: Any person who shall be granted a permit as provided in this chapter
and his agents and representatives.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, partnership, entity, association or
corporation.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The police department of the city of Highwood, Illinois, the
activities of which department under this chapter shall be carried out by the
police chief or his designee.
RADIO TRANSMISSION FACILITY: A means by which alarm signals are conveyed from
the location of the building, structure or facility where the alarm is detected
to a central answering point by means of radio frequency (RF) energy. "Radio
transmission facilities" must have capability for separate distinct signals to
indicate true alarms, trouble alarms, supervisory signals, low battery signal,
panel tamper signal and loss of electric utility signal.
SERVICE CHARGE: An assessment by the city against an alarm holder for false
alarms emitted from the alarm system as provided in this chapter.
TROUBLE INDICATION: A transmitted signal different from the alarm signal which
indicates a mechanical/electrical problem in the system, including, but not
limited to, difficulty in transmission by direct connection. (Ord. 2003-O-26,
5-6-2003; amd. Ord. 20-O-10, 3-3-2020)
6-3-4: CONFIGURATION REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Local Alarm Annunciation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Local alarms shall not transmit an audible sound which, upon
actuation, emits a sound exceeding eighty (80) decibels (when measured from
outside the premises), or which is similar to sirens in use on emergency
vehicles or in vehicles used for civil defense purposes, or is similar to or
imitates the city's emergency services and disaster agency system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Local alarms shall have an automatic shutoff that will deactivate
the sound after ten (10) minutes. The police and fire departments may enter the
premises to deactivate a sound signal that has not shut off within fifteen (15)
minutes of activation and that disturbs surrounding residents. Such action
shall be taken only after reasonable efforts to contact the responsible party.
Neither the city nor its employees shall be liable for any damages resulting
from such action. (Ord. 2003-O-26, 5-6-2003; amd. Ord. 20-O-10, 3-3-2020)
6-3-5: FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Systems Required: New Construction: Every building hereafter
constructed in the city (other than those excluded in subsection A3 of this
section) shall have installed and maintained therein a fire alarm system that
complies with the adopted building and fire codes. No occupancy certificate
shall be issued unless the building is in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Key Boxes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each alarm holder for any new or existing occupancy for which an
alarm system is required pursuant to this section shall provide, keep and
maintain an approved key box. The city shall maintain a supply of approved key
boxes, both with and without tamper detector and transfer switch, and shall
make the same available to alarm holders and permittees at its cost.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Said key box shall be installed in a location approved by the fire
department. The key box shall contain keys allowing access to all entry doors
to the building and the fire alarm panel servicing said building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Connection of any tamper or trouble detector to a key box must be on
a separate, independent zone. (Ord. 2003-O-26, 5-6-2003; amd. Ord. 20-O-10, 3-
3-2020)
6-3-6: FALSE ALARM FEES:
False Alarm And Trouble Indication Charges:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Three (3) fire or burglar false alarms and/or trouble indications shall
be allowed in any twelve (12) month period. A service charge as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code shall be billed to the alarm holder for each false alarm
and/or trouble indication thereafter in any twelve (12) month period.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notwithstanding the above, public schools, elementary and high, or
private schools having a curriculum equivalent to a public elementary school,
public high school or public institution of higher learning shall be entitled
to six (6) fire and six (6) burglar false alarms and/or trouble indications in
any twelve (12) month period. A service charge as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code shall be billed to the alarm holder for each false alarm
and/or trouble indication thereafter in any twelve (12) month period. (Ord.
2003-O-26, 5-6-2003; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 20-O-10, 3-3-2020)
6-3-7: MISUSE OF ALARM SYSTEM PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to activate or knowingly cause activation of an
alarm system for any purpose other than what the alarm system was originally
designed to detect. (Ord. 2003-O-26, 5-6-2003)
6-3-8: MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Each alarm holder shall maintain each alarm system in good working
order, providing the necessary service to prevent false alarms and/or trouble
indications, to prevent malfunctions endangering persons or property, and to
prevent other malfunctions, whether or not the premises or any part thereof is
occupied or unoccupied.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each alarm holder shall cause each alarm system to be inspected
regularly, at least once every twelve (12) months, by a representative of the
company with a service contract or other person qualified to inspect and
service such equipment. Inspections shall be complete enough to detect any
likely malfunctions and may include testing of the equipment. Particular
attention shall be paid to the conditions that have the potential of causing
false alarms and/or trouble indications. The person making the inspection shall
provide a written report to the alarm holder, and the report shall be kept on
the premises for twelve (12) months, subject to being shown to any
representative of the city (including, but not limited to, the fire and police
departments) when requested during business hours. Further, a copy of the
report shall be immediately transmitted to the city fire department for all
fire alarm systems.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The alarm holder shall be responsible for maintaining the alarm system,
and he shall look to the report of the inspector for guidance, but shall not
limit his maintenance effort to matters on the report of the inspector.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Once a required alarm has been installed as required pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, the alarm (unless specifically disconnected
pursuant to direction of the city) shall be continuously maintained in
operation whether or not the building or structure is occupied. It shall
specifically be the duty of each alarm holder and the building owner of the
premises upon which the alarm is installed to ensure the continuous maintenance
and operation of the alarm system. (Ord. 2003-O-26, 5-6-2003)
6-3-9: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The alarm holder, permittee, and building owner are all jointly and severally
responsible for full compliance with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
2003-O-26, 5-6-2003)
6-3-10: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Each alarm holder shall maintain each alarm system in good working
order, providing the necessary service to prevent false alarms and/or trouble
indications, to prevent malfunctions endangering The chief of police and/or
fire chief, as appropriate, shall have the responsibility for enforcement of
this chapter. (Ord. 2003-O-26, 5-6-2003)
6-3-11: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this chapter shall not
release such person from paying the permit fee or reimbursement for false
alarms due and unpaid at the time of such conviction, nor shall payment of any
permit fee or reimbursement for false alarms prevent criminal prosecution for
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. All remedies shall be
cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies by the city shall not bar the
use of any other remedy. The amount of any permit fee or reimbursement for
false alarms shall be deemed a debt to the city. An action may be commenced in
the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of
any delinquent permit fee or reimbursement for false alarms. All unpaid permit
fees or reimbursement for false alarms shall be deemed delinquent thirty (30)
days after they are due and payable. (Ord. 2003-O-26, 5-6-2003)
CHAPTER 4
DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Title
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Dog Rabies Tags
6-4-4: Dogs At Large
6-4-5: Impoundment, Redemption And Disposition Of Dogs
6-4-6: Dangerous Dogs
6-4-7: Animals That Bite
6-4-8: Keeping Of Chickens In Residential Zoning Districts
6-4-9: Noisy Animals
6-4-10: Penalties
6-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter is designated as the CITY OF HIGHWOOD ANIMAL REGULATION CODE OF
2006. (Ord. 2006-O-12, 3-21-2006)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except when the context otherwise requires and except where
another definition set forth in another section of this chapter and applicable
to that section or a designated part thereof is applicable:
Â 
CHICKEN:       The common domestic fowl, species - Gallus gallus.
COOP:          A small building for housing chickens.
               Means and includes:
               A. Any dog which is known to his keeper or harborer, or
               reasonably should be known to his keeper or harborer, to have a
               propensity, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to
               cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
               or domestic animals. It is hereby declared to be the policy of
               the City that keepers and harborers of dogs that are of a size
               and breed that allow the animal to be capable of inflicting life
DANGEROUS DOG: threatening injuries upon human beings are hereby held to a very
               high standard of care regarding their knowledge of such
               propensity, tendency or disposition as to their animal; or
               B. Any dog which has attacked a human being or domestic animal
               without provocations; or
               C. Any dog kept or harbored primarily, or in part, for the
               purpose of dogfighting, or any dog trained for dogfighting; or
               D. Any dog not owned by a governmental or law enforcement unit
               used primarily to guard public or private property.
DOG:           Any animal, male or female, of any kind, age and description, of
               the canine species, which is more than two (2) months of age.
HEN:           An adult female domestic chicken.
PERSON:        Any person, firm, corporation or association.
ROOSTER:       An adult male domestic chicken. (Ord. 2006-O-12, 3-21-2006; amd.
               Ord. 21-O-27, 11-2-2021)
Â 
6-4-3: DOG RABIES TAGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Rabies Vaccination Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Every owner of a dog within the City limits shall obtain a rabies
vaccination and tag from Lake County Health Department pursuant to the Lake
County, IL Code of Ordinances chapter 172.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Rabies Tag And Collar:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Rabies Tag And Collar Required: The owner of a dog shall keep a
collar upon the dog's neck with a metallic or plastic tag securely fastened
thereto that identifies the dog and provides the date of the rabies
vaccination. Any dog found within the City without a tag so fastened upon its
neck shall be deemed a nuisance and shall be disposed of as provided in this
chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Removing Collar And Tag Prohibited; Expired Tags: No person shall
remove or take away the collar or tag from any dog, or entice or decoy any dog
out of any house or enclosed lot or from without the City limits to within the
City for the purpose of impounding such dog. When any dog is at large within
the City and a tag for any preceding year is attached to the dog, the owner of
the dog shall be notified where possible and required to procure a current tag.
(Ord. 19-O-04, 4-16-2019)
6-4-4: DOGS AT LARGE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Leash Required: No owner of a dog shall permit the dog to run at large
in any part of the City at any time. Any dog off the premises of the owner and
not under the control of the owner or a member of his immediate family over ten
(10) years of age, by leash, shall be considered "at large". "Leash" means a
cord, thong or chain, not more than ten feet (10') in length, by which a dog is
controlled by the person accompanying it. A dog within the car of its owner
shall be deemed to be upon the owner's premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Removal Of Excrement: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or
permit a dog to be on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed
by such person unless such person has in his immediate possession a device for
the removal of excrement and a depository for the transmission of excrement to
a receptacle located upon property owned or possessed by such person. Further,
it shall be unlawful for any person in control of, causing or permitting any
dog to be on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such
person, to fail to remove excrement left by such dog to a proper receptacle
located on property owned or possessed by such person.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Impoundment: Any dog found at large on any street of the City contrary
to the provisions of this section shall be impounded according to the
directions of the Chief of Police. (Ord. 2006-O-12, 3-21-2006)
6-4-5: IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF DOGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Impoundment: Any dog found within the City not having a collar upon its
neck and a current rabies tag attached thereto shall be caught and impounded at
the direction of the Chief of Police.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Records; Notice Of Impoundment; Failure To Redeem: The City official,
upon receiving any dog, shall make a complete registry, entering the breed,
color and sex of such dog, and whether tagged. If tagged, he shall enter the
name, address, and telephone number of the owner and the number of the tag.
Tagged dogs shall be separated from untagged dogs. Not later than eight (8)
hours after the impounding of any dog, the owner shall be contacted by phone.
If the owner does not retrieve the dog, or if the owner of the dog is unknown,
the County Animal Control Office will be contacted to retrieve the animal.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Redemption: The owner of any tagged dog so impounded or the person
claiming to be the owner of any untagged dog may redeem such dog in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter upon payment of an impounding fee and a
maintenance charge, all as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. All fees and charges shall be paid to the City Collector,
and upon presentation of a proper receipt from the City Collector, the City
official in possession of the dog shall release such dog in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 19-O-04, 4-16-2019)
6-4-6: DANGEROUS DOGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Confinement Requirements: Any person who keeps or harbors a dangerous
dog shall keep such dog confined, except as set forth hereinafter. "Confined",
as that term is used in this section, shall mean such dog is securely kept
indoors or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or dog run area made of, at
least, 9-gauge chainlink with no more than one inch (1") spacing. Said pen or
run must be locked with a key or combination lock whenever such dog or dogs are
within the structure. Said pen or dog run area must have sides at least six
feet (6') high and be secured over the top. If the pen or dog run area has no
bottom secured to the sides, the sides must be embedded into the ground no less
than one foot (1') deep.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Unconfined; Muzzle And Chain Required: Any person keeping or harboring
a dangerous dog, at any time said dog is not confined, shall ensure such dog is
securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having a minimum tensile strength
of three hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in length.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Warning Sign: Any person keeping or harboring a dangerous dog shall
display, in a prominent place on the premises where the dog is kept, a sign,
easily readable by the public, using the words "Beware Of Dog". In addition, a
similar sign shall be posted on the pen or run of such animal.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Destruction Of Dog: In addition to any penalties the court may
prescribe for violation of this section, if the court finds, after notice to
the keeper or harborer and an opportunity for hearing, that such dangerous dog
represents a continuing threat of serious harm to human beings or other
domestic animals, the court may order such animal destroyed. (Ord. 2006-O-12,
3-21-2006)
6-4-7: ANIMALS THAT BITE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall allow any dog to run at large which has previously
bitten any person.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If any person is bitten by a dog or other animal, the Police Department
shall forthwith cause the animal to be examined for rabies at the expense of
the owner or keeper thereof, and if the animal is so afflicted, it shall be
immediately destroyed. (Ord. 2006-O-12, 3-21-2006)
6-4-8: KEEPING OF CHICKENS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Chickens are permitted in all residential zoning districts on
properties with single, two, or three-family residences only.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The total number of chickens permitted on any residential zoning lot is
five (5).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Roosters (male adult chickens) are prohibited.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Chickens shall not be allowed in any residence or attached garage.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Chickens must be confined in a coop in the backyard of the residence
with a minimum of one (1) square foot per bird.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The maximum coop size is eight (8) square feet.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â An outside, screen enclosed run is permitted. Said run shall be no
larger than sixty-four (64) square feet, and shall be attached to the coop.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The coop and run shall be a minimum of five (5) feet from any property
line and at least fifteen (15) from any neighboring residence.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â The owner shall dispose of waste materials (feed, manure, and litter)
in an environmentally responsible manner. The materials may be composted or
bagged and disposed of in the trash. Piling waste materials on the property is
prohibited.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Owners shall store all feed supplies in rodent-proof containers and
promptly dispose of dead birds and waste eggs.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â The owner must feed and water the chickens on a daily basis.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Sales of eggs is prohibited. (Ord. 21-O-27, 11-2-2021)
6-4-9: NOISY ANIMALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall keep or harbor any dog or other animal shut up or tied
up in any yard, enclosure, stable, house or other place, which animal, by
barking, howling, bawling or by any other noise, disturbs the peace and quiet
of any family, individual or neighborhood.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person shall keep or harbor any chicken, hen, rooster, or other
poultry or other birds which animal, by crowing, squealing, escaping,
attacking, pecking, chasing or by any other noise or activity disturbs the
peace and quiet of any family, individual or neighborhood. (Ord. 2006-O-12, 3-
21-2006; amd. Ord. 21-O-27, 11-2-2021)
6-4-10: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Except as provided herein, any person, firm or corporation violating
any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for each
offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 19-O-04, 4-16-2019)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person, firm or corporation violating section
6-4-6 of this chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2006-O-12, 3-21-2006)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any person violating section
6-4-9B of this chapter shall remove the offending animal within ten (10) days'
notice by the City of Highwood. (Ord. 21- O-27, 11-2-2021)
CHAPTER 5
CRIMINAL CONDUCT CODE
SECTION:
6-5-1: Title
6-5-2: State Criminal Code Adopted
6-5-3: Penalty
6-5-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the CITY OF HIGHWOOD CRIMINAL CONDUCT CODE OF
1977. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-1977)
6-5-2: STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter.
(2009 Code)
6-5-3: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, any person, partnership, firm,
entity or corporation in violation of any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Theft
6-5A-2: Theft Of Lost Or Mislaid Property
6-5A-3: Deceptive Practices
6-5A-4: Criminal Damage To Property
6-5A-5: Damaging Streetlights, Street Signs And Appurtenances
6-5A-6: Defacing Buildings Or Public Property
6-5A-7: Criminal Trespass To Vehicle
6-5A-8: Criminal Trespass To Land
6-5A-9: Depositing Dangerous Substances Upon Streets
6-5A-10: Damage To Street Surfaces
6-5A-11: Damage To Public Property
6-5A-12: Recordkeeping Requirements For Resale Dealers
6-5A-1: THEFT:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-1 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5A-2: THEFT OF LOST OR MISLAID PROPERTY:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-2 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5A-3: DECEPTIVE PRACTICES:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/17-1 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5A-4: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-1 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5A-5: DAMAGING STREETLIGHTS, STREET SIGNS AND APPURTENANCES:
No person shall deface, carry away, injure or destroy any public lamp, street
sign, or any sign, gate, sidewalk or fence, or climb upon any public lamppost,
or hang or place any goods or merchandise thereon, or place any goods, boxes,
wood or any other heavy material upon or against the same. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-
1977)
6-5A-6: DEFACING BUILDINGS OR PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall cut, injure, mark or deface any building not his own, or any
tree, shrub, or walk in any street or public park, or any sewer, water pipe or
hydrant laid or placed by the city. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-1977)
6-5A-7: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO VEHICLE:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-2 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5A-8: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO LAND:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-3 shall apply. Said
statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Entry upon the land or any part thereof of the municipal water
treatment plant by any person not an official, employee, or agent of the city
in the performance of his duties is prohibited and shall be deemed a criminal
trespass to land, and a violation of this code. (Ord. 97-O-21, 7-15-1997; amd.
2009 Code)
6-5A-9: DEPOSITING DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES UPON STREETS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottle,
nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle upon such highway or street.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive, dangerous, hazardous or injurious material shall
immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway or
street shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
6-5A-10: DAMAGE TO STREET SURFACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be driven a vehicle of
any description in or upon any portion of the highway or street or alley
immediately after the same has been dragged and before such portion of the
highway or street shall have partially dried out or frozen; provided, that
nothing in this section shall apply in those instances where it is impossible
to drive with safety at one side of said dragged portion of the road, or where
a vehicle does not make a rut on such dragged portion of the road, injurious to
the work accomplished by use of the road drag or where a vehicle does not make
a rut nearer than nine feet (9') from the center of the dragged portion of the
road. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
6-5A-11: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully injure or damage any public
highway or street or any bridge, culvert, sign, signpost, or structure upon or
used or constructed in connection with any public highway or street for the
protection thereof or for protection or regulation of traffic thereon by any
wilful unusual, improper or unreasonable use thereof, or by wilful careless
driving or careless use of any vehicle thereon, or by wilful mutilation,
defacing or destruction thereof. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
6-5A-12: RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS FOR RESALE DEALERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â "Resale dealer" is defined as anyone engaged in a for profit business
which buys, sells, or trades jewelry, stamps, electronics, or any precious
metals previously owned by a consumer. The following are exempt: residential
garage sales, sales conducted by governmental, civic, religious, educational or
benevolent organizations that are exempt from taxation under 501(c) of the
federal internal revenue code, automobile dealers, consumer shows or
exhibitions, auctioneers, pawnbrokers, recyclable metal sales, coin dealers,
and providers of commercial mobile service as defined in 47 USC 332(d).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All resale dealers must keep records in accordance with the provisions
of the resale dealers act, 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 398/1 et seq. The
records must include accurate descriptions of each sale, including the goods
purchased, the name and address of the seller, and serial number or
identification number of the item received. The records must also identify each
item received by the resale dealer from any source, the time of the receipt,
and the name and address of the source. These records must be maintained in a
manner approved of by the Highwood police department, and must be kept for
three (3) years.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All resale dealers are required to deliver an exact copy of the
previous day's record, in a daily report to the Highwood police department by
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon each day. The daily report must contain an accurate
account and description, in the English language, of all goods, articles, and
other things purchased, the amount of money, value or thing loaned thereon, the
time of sale and the name and address of the person selling such item, include
the serial number or identification numbers of the items received, shall be
printed, typed, or written in ink, and must otherwise comply with the resale
dealers act, 815 Illinois Compiled Statutes 398/1 et seq.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The records may be hand delivered to the Highwood police department
each day in hard copy, or they may be delivered through LeadsOnlineÂ©, an
internet based software program that is fully funded by the Highwood police
department and free for resale dealers to use. (Ord. 15-O-44, 7-7-2015)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES RELATING TO PERSONS, HEALTH AND SAFETY
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Assault And Aggravated Assault
6-5B-2: Battery And Aggravated Battery
6-5B-3: Intimidation
6-5B-4: Reckless Conduct
6-5B-5: Disorderly Conduct
6-5B-6: Possession Of Burglary Tools
6-5B-7: Vagrancy, Loitering
6-5B-8: Abandoned Containers
6-5B-9: Curfew For Juveniles
6-5B-1: ASSAULT AND AGGRAVATED ASSAULT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Assault: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 shall
apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Aggravated Assault: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-
2 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject
to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5B-2: BATTERY AND AGGRAVATED BATTERY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Battery: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3 shall
apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Aggravated Battery: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-
4 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject
to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5B-3: INTIMIDATION:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-6 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5B-4: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-5 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5B-5: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-1A1 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5B-6: POSSESSION OF BURGLARY TOOLS:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/19-2 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5B-7: VAGRANCY, LOITERING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any mendicant, vagrant, or loiterer to
frequent any depot, store, theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other
public place or place frequented by the public in the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person found sleeping in any such place and who has no established
domicile or residence shall be considered to be a vagrant or loiterer.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any person found loitering or strolling in, about or upon any street,
alley or other public way or public place, or at any public gathering or
assembly, or in or around any store, shop, or business or other commercial
establishment, or on any private property without lawful business and
conducting himself in a lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in speech or behavior
shall be considered to be a vagrant or loiterer. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-1977)
6-5B-8: ABANDONED CONTAINERS:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5B-9: CURFEW FOR JUVENILES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: In this section, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
Â Â Â  EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, a motor vehicle accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
Â Â Â PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
Â Â Â SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Offenses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of seventeen (17)
years to be upon any public street, highway, road, alley or other public ground
or public place between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the
following day, and between the hours of eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M.
on Friday and Saturday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day. (Ord.
2004-O-24, 4-6-2004)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of a minor child under the age of seventeen (17)
years to knowingly permit such a minor to go or be in or upon any of the public
streets, highways, roads, alleys or other public ground or public place in the
city during the days and times set out in subsection B1 of this section. (Ord.
2004-O-24, 4-6-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of the state of
Illinois authorize a person less than seventeen (17) years of age to perform,
or going to or returning home from such employment activity, without detour or
stop; or (Ord. 2004-O-24, 4-6-2004)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â On an errand, directed by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of the minor, without any detour or stop; or
(Ord. 2004-O-24, 4-6-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Involved in an emergency; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from such an activity, without any detour or stop; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or (Ord. 2004-O-24, 4-6-2004)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Married or has been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act 1 , as amended. (Ord. 2004-O-24, 4-6-2004; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based upon any response and other circumstances, no defense
in subsection C of this section is present. (Ord. 2004-O-24, 4-6-2004)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1.
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES RELATING TO MORALS AND DECENCY
SECTION:
6-5C-1: Gambling And Related Offenses
6-5C-2: Prostitution And Related Offenses
6-5C-3: Fornication
6-5C-4: Public Indecency; Improper Language
6-5C-5: Obscene Material
6-5C-6: Graffiti
6-5C-1: GAMBLING AND RELATED OFFENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Gambling: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1 shall
apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Keeping A Gambling Place: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/28-3 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation
subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5C-2: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prostitution: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14
shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to
the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Soliciting For A Prostitute: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-15 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance
violation subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Patronizing A Prostitute: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-18 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation
subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Pimping: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-19 shall
apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Keeping A Place Of Prostitution: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-17 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance
violation subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5C-3: FORNICATION:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-8 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5C-4: PUBLIC INDECENCY; IMPROPER LANGUAGE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Public Indecency: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
9 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject
to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Indecent Acts; Improper Language: No person shall commit any indecent,
lewd or filthy act, or utter any lewd or filthy words, or use any threatening
or abusive language toward any other person tending to a breach of the peace,
or make any obscene gesture to or about any other person publicly. (Ord. 77-O-
11, 10-7-1977)
6-5C-5: OBSCENE MATERIAL:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5C-6: GRAFFITI:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Inscription Of Graffiti:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It is unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise place
upon the surface of any structure or wall that is privately or publicly owned
any word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch or letters where the contents thereof
are visible to any member of the general public and contain references to
sexual activity, to any portion of the human anatomy, to gang or criminal
activities, to personal relationships or to defamatory material about public or
private persons. (Ord. 92-O-30, 6-16-1992)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be a defense to the alleged violation of subsection A1 of
this section if such activity was undertaken with the prior written consent of
the owner of the property demonstrating that the owner of the content and the
method by which the inscription was to be placed upon the structure or wall
were authorized by said owner. (Ord. 92-O-30, 6-16-1992; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A mandatory requirement shall be imposed by any court finding a
person guilty of violating the provisions of this subsection as a condition to
any probation, conditional discharge, or supervision that full and complete
restitution be made to the owner of the property for expenses incurred in the
removal of the material and repair of the structure or wall.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Removal Of Graffiti; Restitution:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be duty of each person, firm, corporation, partnership or
entity (hereinafter "owner") which is the owner or occupant of any structure or
wall upon which any inscription or representation prohibited in subsection A1
of this section is made to remove such inscription or representation and to
otherwise repair or restore the structure or wall to its prior condition within
five (5) days of receipt of a written request from the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The owner of the property shall be entitled to restitution and
compensation for the direct costs incurred in the repair and restoration of his
property from any person convicted of the prohibited activity upon the
submission of receipts evidencing payments of such costs and provided the court
entering the finding or conviction for the offense shall so order. (Ord. 92-O-
30, 6-16-1992)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Cannabis
6-5D-2: Drug Paraphernalia
6-5D-3: Possession Of Liquor
6-5D-1: CANNABIS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Possession Of Cannabis Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person
to knowingly possess cannabis within the limits of the city. This section shall
not be construed as conflicting with or limiting the enforcement of the
Illinois cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Possession Of Less Than Ten Grams Of Cannabis:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any person who violates this section by possessing not more than ten
grams (10 g) of cannabis shall be issued a notice of violation directing the
individual to appear before the city's administrative hearing officer for an
administrative adjudication hearing in accordance with the provisions of title
1, chapter 5 of this code, as may be amended from time to time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any person appearing before the administrative hearing officer and
found to have violated this section by possessing not more than ten grams (10
g) of cannabis shall be fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation, and in the
discretion of the hearing officer, may be referred to a suitable drug
education, counseling, or rehabilitation program, and/or ordered to perform
community service.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Possession Of More Than Ten Grams Of Cannabis: Persons possessing more
than ten grams (10 g) of cannabis and who are cited for violations of this
section will have such citations adjudicated in the circuit court of the 19th
judicial circuit, Lake County, Illinois. Any person found to have violated this
section by possessing more than ten grams (10 g) of cannabis shall be fined not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each violation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Annual Report: The chief of police shall make an annual report and
evaluation to the city council of the disposition of all violations of this
section. (Ord. 14-O-18, 7-1-2014)
6-5D-2: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq., shall apply. Said
statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5D-3: POSSESSION OF LIQUOR:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definition: As used in this section, the term "alcoholic liquor" means
any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more than one-half of
one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage purposes.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Unlawful Possession:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to be in possession of any alcoholic liquor in
or upon a public way or other public place within the city unless the alcoholic
liquor is in its original container with the seal unbroken, or unless the
possession is on the premises of an establishment holding valid classes 1, 2
and 4 city liquor licenses. For the purpose of this subsection B1, a public way
or other public place shall include, but is not limited to, all city streets
and alleys, city owned parking facilities, all drives, parking lots and common
areas serving commercial establishments, and all drives, parking areas and
common areas serving multi-family residential structures containing four (4) or
more dwelling units; provided, that this prohibition shall apply to such multi-
family drives, parking areas, and common areas only if the owner, manager or
owners' association has stated, in writing, that it is the intention of the
ownership of such drives, parking areas and common areas that such prohibition
be applicable thereto. The written statement may reserve the right of
management to give one day permits for residents or tenants to hold social
gatherings in a common area at which alcoholic liquor is consumed. The
provisions of this subsection B1 shall not apply to block parties for which the
city clerk has issued a one day permit. (Ord. 93-O-26, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, transfer, consume,
or sell any alcoholic beverage in or upon the grounds of the municipal water
treatment plant. (Ord. 88-O-12, 6-21-1988)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES INVOLVING WEAPONS
SECTION:
6-5E-1: Discharge Of Firearms; Killing Birds
6-5E-2: Unlawful Use Of Weapons
6-5E-3: Sale Of Firearms
6-5E-4: Defacing Identification Marks Of Firearms
6-5E-5: Confiscation And Disposition Of Weapons
6-5E-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS; KILLING BIRDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Discharge Of Firearms: Any person not lawfully authorized to bear arms
in the discharge of his duty shall not discharge any firearm in the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person shall shoot a bow and arrow or conduct archery practice
within city limits.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Killing Birds:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall kill or wound, or attempt to kill or wound, by the
use of firearms, slingshot, bow and arrow, pelting with stone or otherwise, any
quail, pheasant, robin, bluejay or other songbird, plumage bird or game bird,
or shoot an arrow or throw a stone, club or other missile at any of the above
named birds within any private ground, public park, square, street or grounds,
or take or destroy the eggs or young of any such bird or birds within any
private enclosure or public ground.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No person shall discharge or set off or have in his possession for
such purpose any toy firearm, air rifle, or toy cannon that discharges
projectiles, either by air, spring, explosive substance, or any other force.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Exemptions: This section does not apply to the discharge of firearms or
other weapons upon a rifle range, pistol range or shooting range owned by the
city or authorized by the city council. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-1977; amd. Ord. 21-
O-12, 6-1-2021)
6-5E-2: UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5E-3: SALE OF FIREARMS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Unlawful Sale: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-
3 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject
to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Register Of Sales By Dealer: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-4 shall apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance
violation subject to the penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5E-4: DEFACING IDENTIFICATION MARKS OF FIREARMS:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-5 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5E-5: CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Upon conviction of a violation of section
6-5E-2 of this article, any weapon seized shall be confiscated by the court.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any stolen weapon so confiscated, when no longer needed for evidentiary
purposes, shall be returned to the person entitled to possession, if known. All
other confiscated weapons, when no longer needed for evidentiary purposes,
shall, in the discretion of the court, be destroyed, preserved as city property
or sold. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-1977)
ARTICLE F. OFFENSES INVOLVING GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS
SECTION:
6-5F-1: Obstructing A Peace Officer
6-5F-2: Obstructing Justice
6-5F-3: Refusal To Aid An Officer
6-5F-4: Impersonating A Public Official
6-5F-5: Damage To, Improper Use Of License, Tag Or Badge
6-5F-6: Forged Signatures
6-5F-7: False Identification
6-5F-8: Perjury; False Statements
6-5F-1: OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/31-1 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5F-2: OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/31-4 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5F-3: REFUSAL TO AID AN OFFICER:
Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/31-8 shall apply. Said statute
can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the penalty provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
6-5F-4: IMPERSONATING A PUBLIC OFFICIAL:
No person, unless authorized by the city or an official thereof, shall cause to
be exhibited or displayed upon his person, or upon any animal or vehicle, or
upon any article or substance or thing, any metal plate or tag, badge, official
star or license issued as a mark of identification otherwise than in compliance
with the ordinances of the city. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-1977)
6-5F-5: DAMAGE TO, IMPROPER USE OF LICENSE, TAG OR BADGE:
No person shall take, use carry away, detach, or mutilate any metal plate, tag,
badge, or license worn by or attached to any person or vehicle or attached to
any article, substance or thing as a mark of identification, or otherwise
needed in compliance with the requirements of any ordinance of the city or the
laws of the state. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-1977; amd. 2009 Code)
6-5F-6: FORGED SIGNATURES:
Whenever it may be necessary in order to procure a license, permit, grant or
privilege of any kind, or to obtain a referendum vote on any proposition, to
secure signatures to a petition for the same under any ordinance of the city or
under any law or ordinance affecting the whole or any part of the city, no
person shall forge the signature or procure the forging of the signature to
same of any person, or sign or procure the signing of a fictitious name to such
petition, or procure the signature of any person by payment of money or other
valuable thing to the person so signing. (Ord. 77-O-11, 10-7-1977)
6-5F-7: FALSE IDENTIFICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â For purposes of this section, the following words and terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
Â Â Â  FALSE INFORMATION: Includes, but is not limited to, any information
concerning the name, sex, date of birth, social security number, or any
photograph that falsifies all or in part the actual identity if the individual
issued or presenting or displaying the identification document.
Â Â Â GOVERNMENTAL STYLE IDENTIFICATION: One which is, or purports to be, an
official document made or issued by or under the authority of the United States
government, the state of Illinois, or any political subdivision thereof, or any
other state or political subdivision thereof, or any other governmental or
quasi-governmental organization which, when completed with information
concerning the individual, is of a type intended or commonly accepted for the
purpose of identification of an individual.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to knowingly
possess any identification document or purported document of identification
which:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Contains any false information concerning the identity of the
individual to whom the identification document has been issued; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Has been physically altered or changed in such a manner that false
information appears upon the identification document; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Purports to be a governmental style identification, but which has
not in fact been issued by the purported entity; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Has been canceled, suspended, revoked, or the like; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Was issued or belongs to any other person.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to display or cause
to be displayed an identification document which:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Is represented to be that of a person to whom it was not issued; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Was issued to a person other than the individual presenting such
identification.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lend any identification document to any other person; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To knowingly allow the use of his identification document by
another; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Allow any unlawful use of an identification document issued to him.
(Ord. 92-O-23, 5-5-1992)
6-5F-8: PERJURY; FALSE STATEMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Perjury: Provisions of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/32-2 shall
apply. Said statute can be enforced as an ordinance violation subject to the
penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â False Statements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Prohibited: A person commits making a false statement when, in a
proceeding or any other matter involving the city or any of its agents, he
makes a statement with reckless disregard for its truth or falsity or without
reasonable basis for believing the truth of such statement, and such statement
is false.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Scope:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â This subsection shall apply both to oral as well as written
statements, including, but not limited to, documents and applications filed
with the city. The filing of any written document with the city shall subject
any person making a statement therein to the provisions of this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â This subsection shall apply to any proceeding, judicial or
administrative, in which the city, or any of its departments or officers or
agents is a party, or which is brought in the name of the people of the state
of Illinois, and charges a violation of law committed within the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exemptions: A person exempt under 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/32-2
(d), as amended, shall likewise be exempt from prosecution under this section.
(Ord. 2002-O-49, 8-6-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE G. TOBACCO CONTROL
SECTION:
6-5G-1: Definitions
6-5G-2: License Requirements
6-5G-3: Location Restrictions
6-5G-4: Prohibitions Regarding Minors
6-5G-5: Additional Prohibitions
6-5G-6: Tobacco Accessories And Smoking Herbs
6-5G-7: Administration And Enforcement
6-5G-8: Penalties
6-5G-1: DEFINITIONS:
BIDI CIGARETTE: A product that contains tobacco that is wrapped in temburni or
tendu leaf or that is wrapped in any other material identified by rules of the
department of public health that is similar in appearance or characteristics to
the temburni or tendu leaf.
CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service
device which, upon insertion of money, coins, tokens or any other form of
payment, dispenses tobacco products.
CITY: The city of Highwood, Lake County, Illinois.
LICENSEE: Any individual, sole proprietor, firm, entity, partnership,
association, limited liability company or corporation to whom a license has
been issued for the sale of tobacco products.
PERSON: Any individual, sole proprietor, firm, entity, partnership,
association, limited liability company or corporation.
SMOKING HERBS: All substances of plant origin and their derivatives, including,
but not limited to, broom, calea, California poppy, damiana, hops, ginseng,
lobelia, jimson weed and other members of the Datura genus, passion flower and
wild lettuce, which are processed or sold primarily for use as smoking
materials.
TOBACCO ACCESSORIES: Any cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials
of all types, cigarette rolling machines, and other items designed primarily
for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products, or of substances made illegal
under any ordinance or statute, or of substances whose sale, gift, barter, or
exchange is made illegal by this article or any statute.
TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including,
but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, smokeless tobacco,
chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco and/or tobacco in any of its forms. (Ord.
2002-O-20, 3-19-2002)
6-5G-2: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale, at
retail, to give away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at
retail, giving away or delivering tobacco products within the city, without
having first obtained a license therefor. Said license shall be required
regardless of the method of sale or dispensing and shall include sales and
dispensing by self-service, manual service, mechanical service or coin operated
device.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event the licensee chooses to offer such materials for sale
by means of a cigarette vending machine device exclusively, the provisions of
this section shall not be interpreted to require an additional license and fee
for the premises whereon such device is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The license shall authorize the licensee named therein to sell
tobacco products only at the place designated therein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For License: In order to obtain a license, the applicant
shall file with the city collector a written statement setting forth the full
name and address, date and place of birth of the applicant; or the names and
addresses, dates and places of birth of the partners, if the applicant is a
partnership; or the names and addresses of each of the directors, officers and
shareholders of the corporation, if the applicant is a corporation; and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application. In the case of a corporation, the application shall disclose the
number and class of shares owned by each shareholder. The application shall be
in substantially the same form as is attached to the ordinance codified herein
as exhibit A. The application shall be signed and notarized under oath by the
applicant.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Investigation Of Applicant; Ineligibility For License: The application
shall be referred by the city collector to the mayor, who shall cause an
investigation of the applicant to be made by the chief of police who shall make
his report and recommendations on the application to the mayor. Said report
shall be presented to the mayor within a reasonable time for approval by the
mayor; provided, however, that the mayor may opt not to issue license to any of
the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A person who is not of good character and reputation in the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of any
state or of the United States within the immediately preceding five (5) years
(unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted, within the immediately preceding
five (5) years, of violations of law regarding the sale of tobacco products or
tobacco accessories, unless the mayor finds that a repeat offense is unlikely.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution,
pandering or other crime or misdemeanor or ordinance violation opposed to
decency and morality within the immediately preceding five (5) years (unless
pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A person who, at the time of application for renewal of a license
hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A partnership, unless all of the partners of said partnership shall
be individually qualified to obtain a license hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A corporation, unless all officers, managers, or directors thereof,
or any shareholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the
shares of the corporation, shall each be individually qualified to obtain a
license hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A limited liability company, unless all the members thereof, or any
shareholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the shares
of the company, shall each be individually qualified to obtain a license
hereunder.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Authority To Reject License: The city reserves the right to reject any
and all applications for any license hereunder or for the renewal of any
license previously issued by the city, and upon such rejection, the annual
license fee tendered by the applicant shall be returned. (Ord. 2002-O-20, 3-19-
2002)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â License Fees: The license fee to sell tobacco within the city shall be
as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. The license fee for each additional cigarette vending
machine at the same premises operated by the same licensee shall be determined
by title 4, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 2002-O-20, 3-19-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Expiration Of License: Each license issued hereunder shall expire on
June 30 following its issuance. The license fee shall be due and payable on or
before July 1 of each year.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Renewals: The issuance of any license hereunder shall not be construed
as creating any future right in the applicant to receive a renewal therefor.
The licenses issued hereunder expire on an annual basis, and the person making
application under this article acknowledges that, upon expiration of the annual
license, the city shall not be obliged to renew or extend said license, and the
granting of the license hereunder is a privilege granted to the applicant and
creates no property right in the applicant and no expectation of continued
renewal thereof.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Posting License: The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in
the premises designated therein.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Transfer Of License: The license shall be nonassignable and
nontransferable by the licensee, but may be transferred from one cigarette
vending machine to a replacement device within the same premises. Any such
transfer must be reported within two (2) working days from the date of
transfer, in writing, to the city. The notification of transfer must include
the name, serial number and location of each device transferred.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Disposition Of Funds; Records Kept: The city collector shall deposit
all funds received under this article in the general fund of the city. In
addition, the city collector shall cause to be kept a record of all operator
licenses, arcade licenses and device licenses issued pursuant to the terms of
this article, showing the names and addresses of all persons to whom operator
licenses and arcade licenses are issued and the description of the device and
location for each device issued hereunder, as well as any other information
deemed essential. (Ord. 2002-O-20, 3-19-2002)
6-5G-3: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away or
deliver tobacco products within one hundred feet (100') of any school,
childcare facility or other building used for education or recreational
programs for persons under the age of eighteen (18) years. Such restriction
shall not apply to such businesses in existence prior to the effective date
hereof; provided, that such businesses continue to provide the same service and
remove all tobacco advertising from the premises. This exemption shall apply to
any new owner at the same location providing the same service. (Ord. 2002-O-20,
3-19-2002)
6-5G-4: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to distribute or
cause to be distributed to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years,
without charge or at nominal cost, any tobacco product.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver any smokeless tobacco product to any person under
the age of eighteen (18) years.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to distribute or
cause to be distributed to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years,
without charge or at nominal cost, any smokeless tobacco product.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â For any person, including a licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ
or permit any person under eighteen (18) years of age to sell tobacco products
in any licensed premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â For any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to purchase
tobacco products or to misrepresent his/her identity or age or to use or
display any false, forged or altered identification for the purpose of
purchasing tobacco products.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any person without performing an
identification check to determine that the sale or delivery of tobacco products
is not permitted to that person by reason of age. The age shall only be
ascertained from a valid driver's license, Illinois identification card,
military identification card, or other identification card issued by a federal,
state or local government agency. In the event the identification was not
issued by an agency of the state of Illinois, the licensee shall institute any
other procedures which are necessary to ensure that the person is of
appropriate age, which procedure, at a minimum, shall include the presentation
of a second identification card.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â For any person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age to
possess any tobacco products; provided, that the possession of tobacco by a
person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age under the direct supervision
of a parent or guardian of such minor in the privacy of the parent's or
guardian's home shall not be prohibited hereunder. In addition to any other
penalty for violation hereof, all tobacco products found in the possession of
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age in violation hereof
shall be confiscated and destroyed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to fail to post and
maintain signs on the premises and as required in this subsection A9, informing
the public of the age restrictions provided for herein at or near every display
of tobacco products and on or upon every cigarette vending machine which offers
tobacco products for sale. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall
state: "THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW". The text of such sign shall be in red letters on a white
background; said letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to any other penalty, a
licensee convicted of violating any provision of this section may be subject to
having his/her license revoked, suspended or not renewed by the mayor. (Ord.
2002-O-20, 3-19-2002)
6-5G-5: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any person without having
obtained a license from the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â For any person, including a licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell or offer
for sale, give away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling, giving
away or delivering tobacco products by use of a cigarette vending machine. Such
cigarette vending machines located in the following areas are exempt from this
provision:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Factories, businesses, offices, private clubs, and other places
not open to the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Places to which minors under the age of eighteen (18) years of
age are not permitted access.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Places where the vending machine is under the direct supervision
of the owner of the establishment or an employee over eighteen (18) years of
age. The sale of tobacco products from a vending machine under direct
supervision of the owner or an employee of the establishment is considered a
sale of tobacco products by that person. As used in this article, "direct
supervision" means that the owner or employee has an unimpeded line of sight to
the vending machine.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Places where the cigarette vending machine can only be operated
by the owner or an employee over the age of eighteen (18) years, either
directly or through a remote control device, if the device is unaccessible to
all customers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For any person, including a licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, or any person in
the business of selling or otherwise distributing, promoting, or advertising
tobacco products, or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of the person, in the course of such licensee's or person's business,
to distribute, give away, or deliver tobacco products free of charge to any
person on any sidewalk, street, road, right of way, park, playground, public
property, or other property owned by the city, any school district, any park
district or any public library.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to fail to post and
maintain signs on the premises and as required in this subsection A4, informing
the public, as provided herein, in plain view on or upon every cigarette
vending machine which offers tobacco products for sale. Each such sign shall be
plainly visible and shall state: "SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: SMOKING BY
PREGNANT WOMEN MAY RESULT IN FETAL INJURY, PREMATURE BIRTH, AND LOW BIRTH
WEIGHT". The text of such sign shall be in red letters on a white background;
said letters to be at least one-half inch (1/2") high.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to fail to post and
maintain signs on the premises and as required in this subsection A5, informing
the public, as provided herein, in plain view at or near every display of
tobacco products. Each such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
"SURGEON GENERAL'S WARNING: SMOKING BY PREGNANT WOMEN MAY RESULT IN FETAL
INJURY, PREMATURE BIRTH, AND LOW BIRTH WEIGHT". This subsection A5 does not
apply to sales of cigarettes through cigarette vending machines to which
subsection A4 of this section applies. The text of such signs shall be in red
letters on a white background; said letters to be at least one-half inch (1/2")
high.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A separate offense shall he deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to any other penalty, a
licensee convicted of violating any provision of this section may be subject to
having his/her license revoked, suspended or not renewed by the mayor. (Ord.
2002-O-20, 3-19-2002)
6-5G-6: TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell, barter,
exchange, deliver, or give away, or cause or permit or procure to be sold,
bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given away, tobacco accessories or smoking
herbs to any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell, barter,
exchange, deliver, or give away, or otherwise furnish a bidi cigarette to
another person, nor shall a person cause or permit or procure a bidi cigarette
to be sold, bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given away to another person.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell, barter,
exchange, deliver, or give away, or cause or permit or procure to be sold,
bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given away, tobacco accessories or cigarette
paper, or cause, permit or procure tobacco accessories or cigarette paper to be
sold, offered, bartered, exchanged, delivered or given away except from
premises or an establishment where other tobacco products are sold. (Ord. 2002-
O-20, 3-19-2002)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to offer, sell,
barter, exchange, deliver, or give away tobacco accessories or cigarette paper
or cause, permit, or procure tobacco accessories or cigarette paper to be sold,
offered, bartered, exchanged, delivered, or given away by use of coin operated
machines or devices. For purposes of this subsection A4, "cigarette paper"
shall not include any paper that is incorporated into a product which a tax
stamp must be affixed under the cigarette tax act 1  or the cigarette use tax
act 2 . (Ord. 2002-O-20, 3-19-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â For any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to purchase
tobacco accessories or smoking herbs or to misrepresent his/her identity or age
or to use or display any false, forged or altered identification for the
purpose of purchasing tobacco accessories or smoking herbs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell, offer for
sale, give away or deliver tobacco accessories or smoking herbs to any person
without performing an identification check to determine that the sale or
delivery of tobacco accessories or smoking herbs is not permitted to that
person by reason of age. The age shall only be ascertained from a valid
driver's license, Illinois identification card, military identification card,
or other identification card issued by a federal, state or local governmental
agency. In the event the identification was not issued by an agency of the
state of Illinois, the licensee shall institute any other procedures which are
necessary to ensure that the person is of appropriate age, which procedure, at
a minimum, shall include the presentation of a second identification card.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â For any person, including any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, operating a place
of business where tobacco accessories and smoking herbs are sold or offered for
sale, to fail to post and maintain signs on the premises and as required in
this subsection A7, informing the public as provided herein, in plain view at
or near every display of such products. Each such sign shall be plainly visible
and shall state: "SALE OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS TO PERSONS
UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE OR THE MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE TO PROCURE SUCH A
SALE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW". The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a
white background; said letters to be at least one- half inch (1/2") high.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to any other penalty, a
licensee convicted of violating any provision of this section may be subject to
having his/her license revoked, suspended or not renewed by the mayor. (Ord.
2002-O-20, 3-19-2002)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 135/1 et seq.
6-5G-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Administration And Enforcement Official: The mayor or his designee is
charged with the administration of tobacco sales licenses.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inspections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The inspection of all places where tobacco products are licensed to
be sold within the city may be conducted by the mayor or his designee or any
other enforcement officer of the city. The city, through its officers, agents
and employees, shall have the right to enter at all times any establishment,
place or building in which any license as described herein has been issued for
the purpose of inspecting the premises for compliance with all requirements of
this article.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Neither the chief of police nor the city, nor their officers, agents
or employees, shall be liable to any person, partnership, corporation, firm or
association for failure to conduct the inspections required under this article.
Further, the failure of the chief of police or city, or their officers, agents
or employees, to comply with the inspection requirements of this article shall
not affect the required license fee nor the validity of the license issued
hereunder.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Fine In Lieu:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Suspension Or Revocation: Any license issued hereunder shall be
subject to revocation or suspension for just cause by the mayor, if he
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions hereof. Any
person making application under this article shall be deemed to recognize and
acknowledge that said license may be revoked pursuant to the terms of this
article, including the violation of any of the terms of this article.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Fine: In lieu of suspension or revocation of a license, the mayor
may, instead, levy a fine on the licensee. The fine imposed shall not exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day on which a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Agreement Or Hearing Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No such license shall be suspended or revoked and no licensee
shall be fined except by a written agreement entered into with the licensee, or
after a hearing by the mayor with a written notice of not less than seven (7)
days to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend
against the charges contained in such notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The mayor shall, within a reasonable time after such hearing, if
he determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked or
suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason for such
determination in a written order and either the amount of the fine, the period
of the suspension or that the license has been revoked, and serve a copy of
such order upon the licensee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Payment Of Fines: Fines shall be paid to the city within the time
designated by the mayor, but not later than thirty (30) days of said decision.
Failure to pay said fine in a timely manner is a violation of this article and
shall be cause for license suspension or revocation or the levy of a fine.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Hearing Costs: Any licensee determined by the mayor to have violated
any of the provisions of this article shall pay to the city the costs of the
hearing before the mayor on such violation. The mayor shall determine the costs
incurred by the city for said hearing, including, but not limited to, court
reporter fees, the costs of all transcripts or records, attorney fees, the
costs of preparing and mailing notices and orders and all other miscellaneous
expenses incurred by the city, or such lesser sum as the mayor may allow. The
licensee shall pay said costs to the city within the time designated by the
mayor, but not later than thirty (30) days of notification of the costs by the
mayor. Failure to pay said costs in a timely manner is a violation of this
article and shall be cause for license suspension or revocation or the levy of
a fine.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Time Period Of Revocation: When any license shall have been revoked
for any cause, no license shall be granted to said licensee for the period of
six (6) months thereafter for selling "tobacco products", as defined in section
6-5G-1 of this article, in the premises described in such revoked license.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Responsibility For Violations: Every act or omission of whatsoever
nature constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this article by any
officer, director, a manager or other agent or employee of any licensee shall
be deemed and held to be the act of such licensee, and such licensee shall be
punishable in the same manner as if such act or omission had been done or
omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord. 2002-O-20, 3-19-2002)
6-5G-8: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation, or employee of same,
violating any provision of this article shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this article shall not
release such person from paying any fee due and unpaid at the time of such
conviction, nor shall payment of any fee prevent prosecution for violation of
any of the provisions of this article.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The amount of any fee due hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the city.
An action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent fee. All unpaid fees shall be
deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 2002-O-20, 3-19-
2002)
CHAPTER 6
SOCIAL HOSTING RESPONSIBILITIES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Prohibited Gatherings
6-6-3: Exceptions
6-6-4: Penalties
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purposes of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except when the context otherwise requires and except where
another definition set forth in another section of this chapter and applicable
to that section or a designated part thereof is applicable:
ALCOHOL: Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine, whiskey,
rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions and
mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, and which contains one-half of
one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes
either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
CONVEYANCE: Any vehicle, trailer, or watercraft or container operated for the
transportation of persons or property.
GATHERING: Any group of three (3) or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
HOST: To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering.
ILLICIT DRUGS: Any drug, substance, or compound prohibited by law, including
drugs prescribed by a physician that are in the possession of or used by
someone other than the person to whom the drug was prescribed.
PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile as natural, adoptive, or
stepparent, as a legal guardian, as a person to whom legal custody has been
given by order of the court, or any other person over twenty one (21) years of
age who is in loco parentis of a minor.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any "public place" including, without limitation, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, parks, businesses, or parking lots.
REASONABLE STEPS: Controlling access to alcoholic beverages at a gathering,
controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at the gathering,
verifying the age of persons attending the gathering by inspecting drivers'
licenses or other government issued identification cards to ensure that minors
do not consume alcoholic beverages while at the gathering, supervising the
activities of minors at the gathering, and calling for police assistance in the
event underage persons are in possession of alcohol at the gathering or
advising law enforcement in advance of departing one's residence that such
person will be away and no underage person is authorized to be present and
consume alcohol at such person's residence.
RELIGIOUS CEREMONY: The possession, consumption, and dispensation of alcohol or
an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rites or
religious ceremony.
RESIDENCE OR PREMISES: Any home, yard, field, land, apartment, condominium,
hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, park,
or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied on a
temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically
for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased, rented, or
used with or without permission or compensation.
RESPONSE COSTS: The costs associated with responses by law enforcement, fire,
and other emergency response providers to a gathering including, but not
limited to: a) salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement,
fire, or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent
responding to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with a gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such response(s); b) the cost of any
medical treatment for any law enforcement, code enforcement, fire, or other
emergency response personnel injured while responding to, remaining at, or
leaving the scene of a gathering; c) the cost of repairing any city equipment
or property damaged, and the cost of the use of any such equipment, in
responding to, remaining at, or leaving the scene of a gathering.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any person which hosts a gathering or having custody or
control of private property where a gathering occurs.
UNDERAGE PERSON: Any individual less than twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord.
2009-O-45, 12-15-2009)
6-6-2: PROHIBITED GATHERINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â 1Â Â Â It is unlawful for any person to host, permit, allow, or fail to
take reasonable steps to prevent a gathering at any residence or premises, or
on any other property whether private or public, or in any conveyance, over
which that person has control or a reasonable opportunity for control where:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Illicit drugs are present, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Alcoholic beverages are present,
when that person knows or reasonably should know that an underage person will
or does consume or possess any illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A person is responsible for violating this chapter if that person
intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, conspires with, or solicits
another person to commit a violation of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A person is responsible for violating this chapter if that person
knows or should have known about the committing of a prohibited act and failed
to take reasonable steps to prevent the prohibited act.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It is unlawful for any responsible person to fail to take reasonable
steps to prevent possession or consumption of illicit drugs by any person, or
alcoholic beverages by an underage person at any such gathering. A responsible
person does not have to be present to be in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
2009-O-45, 12-15-2009)
6-6-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A responsible person shall not be in violation of this chapter if such
responsible person seeks assistance from the police department or other law
enforcement agency to remove any individual who refuses to abide by the
responsible person's performance of the duties imposed by this chapter or
terminates the gathering because illicit drugs are present or the responsible
person has been unable to prevent underage persons from consuming illicit
drugs, alcohol, or alcoholic beverages despite having taken all reasonable
steps to do so.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â This chapter does not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages that occurs at a religious ceremony or that is exclusively between an
underage person and his or her parent, as permitted by Illinois state law.
(Ord. 2009-O-45, 12-15-2009)
6-6-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-O-45, 12-15-2009)
CHAPTER 7
ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Assault Weapons And Large Capacity Magazines; Possession And Sale
Prohibited; Exceptions
6-7-3: Destruction Of Weapons Confiscated
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ASSAULT WEAPON:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A semiautomatic rifle that has the capacity to accept a large capacity
magazine detachable or otherwise and one or more of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Only a pistol grip without a stock attached;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can be
held by the nontrigger hand;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A shroud attached to the barrel, or that partially or completely
encircles the barrel, allowing the bearer to hold the firearm with the
nontrigger hand without being burned, but excluding a slide that encloses the
barrel; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A muzzle brake or muzzle compensator.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A semiautomatic pistol or any semiautomatic rifle that has a fixed
magazine, that has the capacity to accept more than ten (10) rounds of
ammunition.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A semiautomatic pistol that has the capacity to accept a detachable
magazine and has one or more of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can be
held by the nontrigger hand;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A shroud attached to the barrel, or that partially or completely
encircles the barrel, allowing the bearer to hold the firearm with the
nontrigger hand without being burned, but excluding a slide that encloses the
barrel;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A muzzle brake or muzzle compensator; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The capacity to accept a detachable magazine at some location
outside of the pistol grip.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A semiautomatic shotgun that has one or more of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Only a pistol grip without a stock attached;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any feature capable of functioning as a protruding grip that can be
held by the nontrigger hand;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A folding, telescoping or thumbhole stock;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A fixed magazine capacity in excess of five (5) rounds; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â An ability to accept a detachable magazine.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any shotgun with a revolving cylinder.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Conversion kit, part or combination of parts, from which an assault
weapon can be assembled if those parts are in the possession or under the
control of the same person.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Shall include, but not be limited to, the assault weapons models
identified as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The following rifles or copies or duplicates thereof:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â AK, AKM, AKS, AK-47, AK-74, ARM, MAK90, MISR, NHM 90, NHM 91, SA
85, SA 93, VEPR;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â AR-10;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â AR-15, Bushmaster XM15, ArmaLite M15, or Olympic Arms PCR;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â AR70;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Calico liberty;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Dragunov SVD sniper rifle or Dragunov SVU;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Fabrique National FN/FAL, FN/LAR, or FNC;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Hi-Point carbine;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â HK-91, HK-93, HK-94, or HK-PSG-1;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Kel-Tec sub rifle;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Saiga;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â l.Â Â Â SAR-8, SAR-4800;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â m.Â Â Â SKS with detachable magazine;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â n.Â Â Â SLG 95;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â o.Â Â Â SLR 95 or 96;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â p.Â Â Â Steyr AUG;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â q.Â Â Â Sturm, Ruger Mini-14;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â r.Â Â Â Tavor;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â s.Â Â Â Thompson 1927, Thompson M1, or Thompson 1927 Commando; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â t.Â Â Â Uzi, galil and uzi sporter, galil sporter, or galil sniper rifle
(galatz).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The following pistols or copies or duplicates thereof:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Calico M-110;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â MAC-10, MAC-11, or MPA3;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Olympic Arms OA;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â TEC-9, TEC-DC9, TEC-22 scorpion, or AB-10; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Uzi.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The following shotguns or copies or duplicates thereof:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Armscor 30 BG;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â SPAS 12 or LAW 12;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Striker 12; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Streetsweeper.
Â Â Â "Assault weapon" does not include any firearm that has been made permanently
inoperable, or satisfies the definition of "antique firearm", stated in this
section, or weapons designed for Olympic target shooting events.
DETACHABLE MAGAZINE: Any ammunition feeding device, the function of which is to
deliver one or more ammunition cartridges into the firing chamber, which can be
removed from the firearm without the use of any tool, including a bullet or
ammunition cartridge.
LARGE CAPACITY MAGAZINE: Any ammunition feeding device with the capacity to
accept more than ten (10) rounds, but shall not be construed to include the
following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A feeding device that has been permanently altered so that it cannot
accommodate more than ten (10) rounds.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A .22 caliber tube ammunition feeding device.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A tubular magazine that is contained in a lever action firearm.
MUZZLE BRAKE: A device attached to the muzzle of a weapon that utilizes
escaping gas to reduce recoil.
MUZZLE COMPENSATOR: A device attached to the muzzle of a weapon that utilizes
escaping gas to control muzzle movement. (Ord. 13-O-42, 6-18-2013)
6-7-2: ASSAULT WEAPONS AND LARGE CAPACITY MAGAZINES; POSSESSION AND SALE
PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall manufacture, sell, offer or display for sale, give,
lend, transfer ownership of, acquire or possess any assault weapon or large
capacity magazine. This subsection shall not apply to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The sale or transfer to, or possession by any officer, agent, or
employee of the city of Highwood or any other municipality or state or of the
United States, members of the armed forces of the United States; or the
organized militia of this or any other state; or peace officers to the extent
that any such person named in this subsection is otherwise authorized to
acquire or possess an assault weapon and/or large capacity magazine and does so
while acting within the scope of his or her duties;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Transportation of assault weapons or large capacity magazine if such
weapons are broken down and in a nonfunctioning state and are not immediately
accessible to any person.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any assault weapon or large capacity magazine possessed, sold or
transferred in violation of subsection A of this section is hereby declared to
be contraband and shall be seized and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of section
6-7-3 of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any person found in violation of this section shall be sentenced to not
more than six (6) months' imprisonment or fined not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or both.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any person who, prior to the effective date hereof, was legally in
possession of an assault weapon or large capacity magazine prohibited by this
section shall have ninety (90) days from the effective date hereof to do any of
the following without being subject to prosecution hereunder:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To remove the assault weapon or large capacity magazine from within
the limits of the city of Highwood; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To modify the assault weapon or large capacity magazine either to
render it permanently inoperable or to permanently make it a device no longer
defined as an assault weapon or large capacity magazine; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To surrender the assault weapon or large capacity magazine to the
chief of police or his designee for disposal as provided below. (Ord. 13-O-42,
6-18-2013)
6-7-3: DESTRUCTION OF WEAPONS CONFISCATED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Whenever any firearm or large capacity magazine is surrendered or
confiscated pursuant to the terms of this chapter, the chief of police shall
ascertain whether such firearm is needed as evidence in any matter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If such firearm or large capacity magazine is not required for evidence
it shall be destroyed at the direction of the chief of police. A record of the
date and method of destruction and inventory of the firearm or large capacity
magazine so destroyed shall be maintained. (Ord. 13-O-42, 6-18-2013)
CHAPTER 8
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: License Required
6-8-3: License Eligibility
6-8-4: Renewals
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The term "Assisted Living Facility" as used in this chapter, shall mean a
"facility", as that term is defined in section 1-113 of the Illinois Nursing
Home Care Act, 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1-113, as may be amended.
(Ord. 20-O-02, 1-7-2020)
6-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person or entity may operate an Assisted Living Facility within the City,
except upon receipt of an assisted living facility license issued by the City
Manager pursuant to this chapter. All assisted living facility licenses will be
for a term of one year. (Ord. 20-O-02, 1-7-2020)
6-8-3: LICENSE ELIGIBILITY:
An applicant for an assisted living facility license must submit a properly
completed application to the City Clerk, on a form to be provided by the City,
which application must include the payment of a non-refundable assisted living
facility license registration fee, in the amount set forth in the Annual Fee
Resolution. (Ord. 20-O-02, 1-7-2020)
6-8-4: RENEWALS:
For all applications for the renewal of an assisted living facility license,
for an Assisted Living Facility to which the City received a quantity of
requests for the provision of emergency medical services greater than the
number of beds in such Assisted Living Facility, the applicant must also pay an
Assisted Living Facility Impact Fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to
offset the costs incurred by the City's emergency services infrastructure
caused by the high frequency of calls for service and cause at least one
employee of the Assisted Living Facility charged with the responsibility of
managing and overseeing the facility's personnel, to attend an emergency
medical services training class, completed within three (3) months of license
renewal, to be conducted by representatives of the Fire Department providing
service to the community. (Ord. 20-O-02, 1-7-2020)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Title
7-1-2: State Vehicle Code Adopted
7-1-3: Definitions
7-1-4: Application Of Provisions; Exemptions
7-1-5: Emergency And Temporary Regulations
7-1-6: Accidents
7-1-7: Obstructing Traffic Or Persons
7-1-8: Transporting Alcohol
7-1-9: Depositing Snow And Ice On Public Ways
7-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the CITY OF HIGHWOOD TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLE
CODE OF 1975. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
7-1-2: STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100
et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this title, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this title if
proceeded hereunder. (2009 Code)
7-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101 et seq., shall apply.
(2009 Code)
7-1-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this title applicable to
the drivers of vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the state of Illinois or any
county, city, town, district or any other political subdivision of the state,
except as provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as
set forth in this title with references to authorized emergency vehicles.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law, or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions of this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion or visual signals meeting the
requirements of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â This subsection does not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor does this subsection protect the driver from the consequences
of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Public Works Vehicles: The provisions of this title do not apply to
persons, teams, motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in
work upon the surface of the highway, but apply to such persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
7-1-5: EMERGENCY AND TEMPORARY REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The chief of police is hereby authorized and empowered to promulgate
and enforce temporary emergency and/or temporary traffic regulations, including
imposition of regulations on street obstructions, traffic movement,
implementation of traffic control signalization and signage and limitations on
parking, standing or stopping of vehicles as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In situations where the chief of police shall determine that an
emergency exists and that the safety and welfare of the general public will be
served by such regulations; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Such other temporary regulations as the chief of police may
determine are necessary for control of parking, stopping, standing, street
obstructions, loading zones, signalization, traffic movement, or other traffic
and/or parking control on a temporary basis in order to evaluate the possible
permanent implementation of same.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Such emergency and/or temporary regulations shall remain in effect only
during the period of emergency, or for such time as determined by the chief of
police, but in no event for more than ninety (90) days without the adoption of
an enabling ordinance. Further, such temporary regulations may be revoked by
the mayor and/or the city council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Further, the mayor and/or the chief of police is hereby authorized and
empowered to make and enforce regulations relative to the operation of any
valet service within the city, including, but not limited to 1 :
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Use of any property, parking stalls or any city property by valet
operators; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Designation of streets, lots, or alleys upon which valet operators
are permitted to park vehicles; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Designation of streets, lots, or alleys upon which valet operators
are prohibited to park vehicles; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Valet operator signage. (Ord. 2004-O-68, 10-5-2004)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 8 of this code.
7-1-6: ACCIDENTS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-401 et seq., shall apply.
(2009 Code)
7-1-7: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR PERSONS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1416 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-1-8: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no driver may
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a highway in the state except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no passenger may
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a highway in the state except in the original container and
with the seal unbroken.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Exemptions: This section shall not apply to the passengers in a
limousine when it is being used for purposes for which a limousine is
ordinarily used, the passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for
purposes for which chartered buses are ordinarily used, or on a "motor home or
minimotor home", as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-145.01.
However, the driver of any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having
any alcoholic liquor in or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic
consumption by the driver shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's
failure to obey this section. For the purposes of this section, a "limousine"
is a motor vehicle of the first division with the passenger compartment
enclosed by a partition or dividing window used in the for hire transportation
of passengers and operated by an individual in possession of a valid Illinois
driver's license of the appropriate classification pursuant to 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-104. The exemption applicable to chartered buses under
this subsection does not apply to any chartered bus being used for school
purposes.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Penalties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any driver who is convicted of violating subsection A1 of this
section for a second or subsequent time within one year of a similar conviction
shall be subject to suspension of driving privileges as provided in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-206, subsection (a), paragraph 23.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any driver who is less than twenty one (21) years of age at the date
of the offense and who is convicted of violating subsection A1 of this section
shall be subject to the loss of driving privileges as provided in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-205, subsection (a), paragraph 13, and 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-206, subsection (a), paragraph 33. (Ord. 2001-O-20, 3-20-
2001)
7-1-9: DEPOSITING SNOW AND ICE ON PUBLIC WAYS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prohibitions: No person, firm or corporation removing snow or ice from
any building, parking lot, private property, driveway, driveway approach,
sidewalk or public sidewalk shall sweep, shovel, scrape, drag, or by any other
manner remove such snow or ice from the confines of such property and deposit
the same upon any street or public parking area, or upon any sidewalk or right
of way used or intended to be used for vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or upon
any adjoining property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Responsibility For Deposits: The owner and/or occupant of any private
property which has authorized, allowed or contracted for the removal or
receives the benefit of the removal of said snow and ice from the owner's or
occupant's private property shall also be deemed responsible for any violation
of subsection A of this section by any person, firm or corporation performing
snow and ice removal upon the property of said owner or occupant.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exemptions: The officers, agents, contractors and employees of the city
are hereby exempted from the provisions of this section when performed in
furtherance of municipal purposes.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section may avail themselves of the out of court settlement procedures
pursuant to section
7-5-19-2 of this title, notwithstanding any other provision of this section.
The provisions of section
7-5-19-2 of this title shall be applicable to persons, firms or corporations
violating this section. (Ord. 97-O-41, 12-2-1997)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Vehicle Licenses
7-2-2: Obedience To Traffic Laws And Police
7-2-3: Fleeing And Eluding Police
7-2-4: Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment
7-2-5: Penalties
7-2-1: VEHICLE LICENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Except as herein provided, every owner, operator, or lessee (whether
a natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
association, or other artificial person) of any motor vehicle, motorcycle,
motor bike, motor driven cycle and certain trailers (collectively "vehicle"),
who resides within the city, or who resides within the city and whose vehicle
is registered to a location within the city, or whose vehicle is stored, housed
or garaged within the city shall pay a license fee as specified herein for each
license period to permit the use of such vehicle on any public street, highway,
avenue or alley. In the event that a vehicle is registered to a location within
the city, it shall create a rebuttable presumption that the owner, operator or
lessee resides within the city. It shall be the burden of such owner, operator
or lessee to present sufficient documentation or evidence to overcome such
presumption.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a natural person, firm,
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, or other
artificial person, to fail to obtain a license for any vehicle required to
display same, or to use or cause or permit to be used any such vehicle upon any
public street, highway, avenue, alley or public place in the city, or to be
kept at any place in the city, unless such vehicle is licensed and proof
thereof is displayed as provided herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For License; Expiration:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Application shall be made and a city license shall be purchased and
displayed upon each vehicle as required herein within fourteen (14) days of the
acquisition of every such vehicle and not later than July 1 of each succeeding
year. Each license issued hereunder shall expire on June 30 next succeeding.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Application for any such city vehicle license shall be filed with
the city collector upon a form provided by said collector. Such form shall
specify:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The name and address of the applicant; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The number of months and/or years the applicant has resided at
the current address or other address within the city; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The description of the vehicle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The date such vehicle was acquired; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The place where such vehicle is to be kept when not in use; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Vehicle identification numbers and state license numbers; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Such other information as may be required by the city collector.
(Ord. 2003-O-64, 11-4-2003)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License Fees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Fees Established: The license fees shall be as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Reduced Rates:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Notwithstanding the above, motor driven noncommercial
passenger vehicles, motor driven noncommercial vehicles having a B license
plate, motor driven vehicles having an RV license plate, motorcycles, motor
driven cycles and motor tricycles registered to active duty military personnel
who reside within the city and whose vehicles are entitled to exemption
pursuant to the military veterans assistance act 1  may be licensed at a
reduced rate in accordance with the provisions of this subsection C1b. The
reduced rate shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code, and shall apply to each vehicle entitled to be registered
pursuant to the act. (Ord. 2003-O-64, 11-4-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Any vehicle listed in section
3-2A-1 of this code, entry reading "Vehicle stickers (annual fee)", and
subsection C1b(1) of this section may be licensed at a reduced rate in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection C1b.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â Where application is made for a license between August 16
and December 31, the applicant may pay the lower amount specified in section
3-2A-1 of this code, entry reading "Vehicle stickers (annual fee)", for that
year upon proof satisfactory to the city collector that such application is
made within fourteen (14) days of the acquisition of such vehicle as required
by this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Where a vehicle is newly acquired between January 1 and
March 31, or any person commences residency within the city during such time,
the license fee shall be one-half (1/2) of the initial annual license fee set
forth in section
3-2A-1 of this code, entry reading "Vehicle stickers (annual fee)"; provided,
that the applicant applies within fourteen (14) days of acquisition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (C)Â Â Â Where a vehicle is newly acquired on or after April 1, or
any person commences residency within the city during such time, the license
fee shall be one- fourth (1/4) of the initial annual license fee set forth in
section
3-2A-1 of this code, entry reading "Vehicle stickers (annual fee)"; provided,
that the applicant applies within fourteen (14) days of acquisition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (D)Â Â Â Each applicant seeking a reduced rate pursuant to the
terms of this subsection C1b shall provide to the city collector a bill of
sale, official proof of registration or such other proof of purchase as is
reasonably required by the collector to establish the date of acquisition of
the vehicle. Proof of residency date shall be provided to the collector by the
applicant through submission of such documentation as is satisfactory, in the
sole discretion of the collector. Such proof may be, but is not limited to, a
deed or written lease. Proof of age or entitlement due to the soldier and
sailors relief act shall be provided to the collector by the applicant through
submission of such documentation as is satisfactory, in the sole discretion of
the collector. (Ord. 2003-O-64, 11-4-2003)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Transfer Of License: An additional fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code shall be paid to the city by any person, partnership,
corporation or association having a valid license who desires to transfer the
said license to another vehicle of the same class. Provided, that said valid
license may only be transferred to another vehicle of the same class, titled to
the same resident owners or operators, and the old license delivered to the
city collector.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Late Payment: At the time of application for a city vehicle license,
an additional fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code shall be paid by every owner, operator, or lessee (whether
a natural person, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
association, or other artificial person) who has failed to obtain a city
vehicle license when required to do so. (Ord. 2003-O-64, 11-4-2003; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Donations: In addition to the fees provided herein, the city council
may, upon motion duly made and passed, authorize the city collector to collect
voluntary donations for special city vehicle licenses aiding municipal, not for
profit, charitable or other eleemosynary institutions. The issuance of such
special vehicle licenses shall be authorized by motion duly made and approved
by the city council and upon such terms and conditions as the city council may
impose regarding the collection of such funds, issuance of such licenses, and
administration of such program. These requirements may include, but shall not
be limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â That any additional costs be absorbed by the benefited program.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Control for accounting of license fees and donations and approval
of the proposed special sticker design format. (Ord. 2003-O-64, 11-4-2003)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Waiver Of Fees: The mayor may reduce or waive the late fee imposed
pursuant to the terms of this chapter in cases of financial hardship or other
good cause shown. Only one such waiver shall be granted per vehicle owner. For
the purposes of this section, financial hardship or other good cause shall be
demonstrated by the applicant as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The applicant or applicant's family is currently receiving aid
under article IV of the Illinois public aid code (aid to families with
dependent children); or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â He or she is receiving assistance under one or more of the
following public benefits programs: supplemental security income (SSI), aid to
the aged, blind and disabled (AABD), temporary assistance for needy families
(TANF), food stamps, general assistance, state transitional assistance, or
state children and family assistance; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â His or her available income is one hundred twenty five percent
(125%) or less of the current poverty level as established by the United States
department of health and human services; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The applicant demonstrates one or more of the following factors:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Illness in the family;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Unusual expenses such as fire, flood, storm damage, etc.;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Seasonal unemployment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Emergency situations; and/or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â The applicant is involved in a work stoppage.
The applicant shall submit written evidence of eligibility under one of the
aforementioned conditions, upon which the mayor shall act promptly to determine
whether the fee reduction/waiver request should be granted or denied. (Ord. 10-
O-28, 8-3-2010)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Plates And Stickers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon completion of the application and payment of the license fee,
the city collector shall deliver to the licensee a plate, emblem or sticker as
designated by the city council, and it shall be the duty of the licensee to
permanently affix such plate, emblem or sticker in accordance with the
instructions received therewith in a conspicuous place on the lower right front
side of the windshield of such vehicle or, if none, in the area immediately
adjacent to the license plate or where the license plate would be displayed,
where it can be readily seen.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of this section to the contrary,
no vehicle registered to the city and bearing a "municipal" plate issued by the
state of Illinois shall be required to display a vehicle sticker as set forth
herein. (Ord. 2003-O-64, 11-4-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 330 ILCS 45/0.01 et seq.
7-2-2: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS AND POLICE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Obedience To Traffic Laws: It is unlawful and, unless otherwise
declared in this title with respect to particular offenses, it is an ordinance
violation for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required in this title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obedience To Police: No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control, or regulate traffic. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
7-2-3: FLEEING AND ELUDING POLICE:
Any driver or operator of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or
audible signal by a peace officer directing such driver or operator to bring
his vehicle to a stop, wilfully fails or refuses to obey such direction,
increases his speed, extinguishes his lights, or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer, is guilty of fleeing and eluding a police officer. The
signal given by the peace officer may be by hand, voice, siren, or red light.
Provided, the officer giving such signal shall be in police uniform, and if
driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle. (Ord. 2001-O-20, 3-20-2001)
7-2-4: VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
Â Â Â BUSINESS DAY: Any day in which the office of the city clerk of the city of
Highwood is open to the public for a minimum of seven (7) hours.
Â Â Â MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles and motor scooters.
Â Â Â OWNER OF RECORD: The record title holder(s) of the vehicle.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Conduct Prohibited: A motor vehicle that is used in connection with any
of the following violations may be subject to seizure and impoundment by the
city, and the owner of record of said vehicle shall be liable to the city for
an administrative penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus any
applicable towing fees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A motor vehicle that is knowingly used in the commission of any
felony criminal offense as described in Illinois criminal code of 1961, chapter
720 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A motor vehicle that is used in the commission of the offense of
driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, and/or intoxicating compounds as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A motor vehicle that is used in the commission of the offense of
driving on a suspended or revoked license, as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-303, as a result of a conviction pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-501(a).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A motor vehicle that is used in the commission of the offense of
driving without a valid license or permit as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-101; except, that the vehicle of a driver whose license has been
expired for less than six (6) months, shall not be subject to seizure under
this subsection B2.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Seizure And Impoundment:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility approved by the chief
of police, if the towing of the vehicle is supported by probable cause or if it
is in the furtherance of public safety or community caretaking functions.
Provided, in the event the vehicle is not otherwise needed for law enforcement
purposes, and a person authorized by the owner, licensed and insured, is
available to immediately remove the vehicle, the officer shall permit such
removal by such authorized person. This subsection C1 shall not apply if the
vehicle used in the violation was stolen at that time, and the theft was
reported to the appropriate police authorities within twenty four (24) hours
after the theft was discovered, or reasonably should have been discovered.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The police officer shall notify any person identifying himself as
the owner of the vehicle or any person who is found to be in control of the
vehicle at the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the
fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner's right to request an
administrative hearing to be conducted under this section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Administrative Hearing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Within five (5) business days after a vehicle is seized and
impounded pursuant to this section, the city shall notify, by certified mail,
the owner of record of the owner's right to request a hearing to challenge
whether a violation of this section has occurred.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The owner of record seeking a hearing must file a written request
for a hearing with the chief of police or his designee no later than ten (10)
business days after notice was mailed. The hearing date must be no more than
fifteen (15) business days after a request for a hearing has been filed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the hearing, and
hearsay evidence shall be admissible. If, after the hearing, the hearing
officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that the vehicle was used in
violation of this section, then the hearing officer shall enter an order
finding the owner of record of the vehicle civilly liable to the city for the
administrative penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â If, after a hearing, the hearing officer does not determine by a
preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used in such a violation,
the hearing officer shall enter an order finding for the owner and for the
return of the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â If the owner of record requests a hearing but fails to appear at the
hearing or fails to request a hearing in a timely manner, the owner of record
shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a hearing, and the hearing
officer shall enter a default order in favor of the city in the amount of the
administrative penalty. However, if the owner of record pays such penalty and
the vehicle is returned to the owner, no default order need be entered if the
owner is informed of his or her right to a hearing and signs a written waiver,
in which case, an order of liability shall be deemed to have been made when the
city receives the written waiver.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Retention Of Impounded Vehicle: A penalty imposed pursuant to this
section shall constitute a debt due and owing the city. A vehicle impounded
pursuant to this section shall remain impounded until:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is paid to the city
and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case, the
owner of record shall be given possession of the vehicle;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is posted
with the police department and all applicable towing fees are paid to the
towing agent, at which time, the vehicle will be released to the owner of
record; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case, the vehicle shall be
disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned
vehicles.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Bond For Release: If a bond in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) is posted with the police department, the impounded vehicle shall be
released to the owner of record. The owner of the vehicle shall still be liable
to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees. If a five hundred dollar
($500.00) penalty is imposed for violation of this section, the five hundred
dollar ($500.00) bond will be forfeited to the city; however, if a violation of
this section is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the five hundred
dollar ($500.00) bond will be returned to the person posting the bond. All bond
money posted pursuant to this section shall be held by the city until the
hearing officer issues a decision or, if there is a judicial review, until the
court issues its decision.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Unclaimed Vehicles: Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed within
thirty (30) days after the expiration of the time during which the owner of
record may seek judicial review of the city's action under this section, or the
time at which a final judgment is rendered in favor of the city, or the time a
final administrative decision is rendered against an owner of record who is in
default may be disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as provided by law;
provided, however, that where proceedings have been instituted under state or
federal drug asset forfeiture laws, the subject vehicle may not be disposed of
by the city except as consistent with those proceedings. (Ord. 2008-O-29, 9-16-
2008)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-5-19-1 of this title.
7-2-5: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Penalty Amounts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Unless otherwise provided in this title, any person, partnership,
firm, entity or corporation in violation of this title shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each and every offense. Each day that such offense continues shall be
considered a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 2000-O-40, 7-18-2000)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The penalty for any person, partnership or corporation who violates
any provision of section
7-2-3 of this chapter or section
7-1-8 or
7-4-16 of this title shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
nor more than the maximum amount permitted by Illinois statute for each
offense. (Ord. 2000-O-40, 7-18-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Attorney Fees: In addition to any penalty or fine levied under this
title, any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation found to be in
violation of this title shall pay any and all reasonable attorney fees incurred
by the city in the enforcement of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Court Costs: Further, in the event the city deems it necessary to bring
any court action to enforce this title, there shall be assessed against any
person, partnership, firm or corporation found to be in violation of this
title, all reasonable costs, expenses and attorney fees incurred by the city in
bringing said action, in addition to the fines provided herein.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Other Sanctions: In addition to any penalty or fine levied under any
court disposition or adjudication for a violation of this title, the court
shall be authorized to consider any disposition authorized or permitted
pursuant to the applicable statutes of the state, including, but not limited
to, imposition of community service, court supervision, and/or restitution. The
imposition of a sentence of imprisonment shall not be authorized pursuant to
this section. A sentence of imprisonment shall be authorized only if
specifically referenced in the penalty section of the applicable ordinance, or
otherwise authorized pursuant to state statute due to the enactment of said
ordinance.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Towing Charges:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In the event of the towing, seizure or storage of any vehicle by the
city, whether incident to an arrest or in furtherance of the duties of the
city, unless alternate arrangements have been made with a tow provider or
storage facility, the owner of the vehicle shall pay to the city the greater of
the following amounts: (Ord. 2000-O-40, 7-18-2000)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any costs charged to the city by said tow provider or storage
facility, plus an administrative fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code in order to obtain the release of said vehicle; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If towed and/or stored by the city, the amounts provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The provisions of this subsection shall constitute a lien upon the
vehicle. (Ord. 2000-O-40, 7-18-2000; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
7-3-2: Flashing Signals
7-3-3: Unauthorized Signs, Signals And Markings
7-3-4: Obstructing Devices
7-3-5: Damage To Traffic Control Devices
7-3-6: Avoiding Signs And Signals
7-3-1: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-305, subsection (a) shall
apply. (2009 Code)
7-3-2: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-309 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-3-3: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-310 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-3-4: OBSTRUCTING DEVICES:
No owner or occupant of any real property in the city shall permit, allow, or
maintain any vegetation, weed, or bush upon such real property, if said
vegetation, weed, or bush obscures or interferes with the ability of any
motorist to view the movement of any other vehicular traffic upon the highway,
or interferes with the ability of any motorist to view any traffic control
device. (Ord. 80-O-19, 12-5-1980)
7-3-5: DAMAGE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-311 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-3-6: AVOIDING SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/305, subsection (b) shall apply.
(2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Fire Department Vehicles And Equipment
7-4-2: Prudent Driving
7-4-3: Right Of Way
7-4-4: Stop Intersections Designated
7-4-5: One-Way Streets And Alleys
7-4-6: Speed Restrictions
7-4-7: Turning Movements
7-4-8: Driving On Right
7-4-9: Overtaking, Passing Vehicles
7-4-10: Restrictions On Driving
7-4-11: Railroad Grade Crossings
7-4-12: School Buses; Stopping, Loading And Discharging Passengers
7-4-13: Truck Traffic
7-4-14: Funeral Processions
7-4-15: Skateboarding In Business District Prohibited
7-4-16: Improper, Dangerous Driving
7-4-17: Safe Carrying Of Passengers
7-4-18: Use Of Wireless Telephones And Electronic Devices While Operating A
Motor Vehicle
7-4-1: FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Following, Parking Near Fire Apparatus: Provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-1411 shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Crossing Fire Hose: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
1412 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-2: PRUDENT DRIVING:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall maintain control of his vehicle in such a
manner with regard to traffic and weather conditions and the use of the street
so as not to endanger or collide with any person, object, vehicle or thing.
(Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
7-4-3: RIGHT OF WAY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Approaching Or Entering Intersection:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Rule: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-901
shall apply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Stop And Yield Intersections: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-904 shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Turning Left: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-902
shall apply.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Entering Stop Crosswalk: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-903 shall apply.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Merging Traffic: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-905
shall apply.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Emerging From Private Road Or Driveway: Provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-906 shall apply.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles: Provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-907 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-4: STOP INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED:
The following intersections within the city are hereby designated as stop
intersections, and traffic control devices in the form of stop signs shall be
placed at one or more such intersections as follows:
STOP INTERSECTIONS
Street Intersection With Direction Of Traffic
Street                      Intersection With      Direction Of Traffic
Ashland Avenue              Green Bay Road         Eastbound
Â                           Western Avenue         Westbound
Bank Lane                   Washington Avenue      Northbound
Â                           Webster Avenue         Northbound
                            Drive-in bank roadway
Bank Lane (East)            approximately 215 feet Northbound
                            north of sidewalk at
                            Highwood Avenue
Bank Lane (West)            Highwood Avenue        Southbound
Burchell Avenue             Green Bay Road         Eastbound
Â                           North Central Avenue   Eastbound
Â                           North Central Avenue   Westbound
Â                           Western Avenue         Westbound
Burns Avenue                Prairie Avenue         Northbound
Clay Avenue                 Sheridan Road          Westbound
Elm Avenue                  Burtis Avenue          Northbound
Â                           Michigan Avenue        Southbound
Euclid Avenue               Green Bay Road         Eastbound
Â                           Western Avenue         Westbound
Euclid Court                Euclid Avenue          Southbound
Evert's Place               Prairie Avenue         Southbound
Evolution Avenue            Prairie Avenue         Southbound
Exmoor Court                Michigan Avenue        Northbound
Funston Avenue              Burchell Avenue        Northbound
Green Bay Road              Highwood Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Highwood Avenue        Southbound
Â                           North Avenue           Northbound
Â                           North Avenue           Southbound
Â                           Prairie Avenue         Northbound
Â                           Prairie Avenue         Southbound
Â                           Washington Avenue      Northbound
Â                           Washington Avenue      Southbound
Grove Avenue                Highwood Avenue        Southbound
Â                           North Avenue           Northbound
High Street                 Highwood Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Michigan Avenue        Southbound
Â                           Oakridge Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Oakridge Avenue        Southbound
Â                           Prairie Avenue         Northbound
Â                           Prairie Avenue         Southbound
Highwood Avenue             Green Bay Road         Eastbound
Â                           Grove Avenue           Eastbound
Â                           High Street            Eastbound
Â                           Palmer Avenue          Westbound
Â                           South Central Avenue   Westbound
Â                           Waukegan Avenue        Eastbound
Â                           Western Avenue         Westbound
Jeffrey's Place             Highwood Avenue        Northbound
Jocelyn Place               North Avenue           Northbound
Â                           Western Avenue         Westbound
Lakeview Avenue             Walker Avenue          Southbound
Leonard Wood West           Holabird Loop          Eastbound
Llewellyn Avenue            North Central Avenue   Westbound
Lockard Lane                Burchell Avenue        Southbound
Lyster Road                 Ronan Road             All traffic northbound,
                                                   eastbound and westbound
Maple Avenue                Summit Avenue          Northbound
Mears Place                 Evert's Place          Westbound
Â                           Green Bay Road         Eastbound
Michigan Avenue             Exmoor Court           Eastbound
Â                           Exmoor Court           Westbound
Â                           High Street            Eastbound
Â                           High Street            Westbound
Morgan Place                Prairie Avenue         Northbound
Â                           Prairie Avenue         Southbound
North Avenue                Funston Avenue         Eastbound
Â                           Funston Avenue         Westbound
Â                           Grove Avenue           Eastbound
Â                           North Central Avenue   Westbound
Â                           Western Avenue         Westbound
North Central Avenue        Burchell Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Burchell Avenue        Southbound
Â                           North Avenue           Southbound
Â                           Washington Avenue      Northbound
Oak Avenue                  Michigan Avenue        Southbound
Oak Ridge Avenue            High Street            Eastbound
Â                           South Central Avenue   Westbound
Oak Terrace                 North Avenue           Northbound
Palmer Avenue               Highwood Avenue        Southbound
Pleasant Avenue             Prairie Avenue         Northbound
Â                           Sard Place             Northbound
Â                           Sard Place             Southbound
Prairie Avenue              Green Bay Road         Eastbound
Â                           High Street            Eastbound
Â                           High Street            Westbound
Â                           South Central Avenue   Eastbound
Â                           South Central Avenue   Westbound
Â                           Western Avenue         Westbound
Rienzi Lane                 Lyster Road            Eastbound
Sard Place                  High Street            Eastbound
Â                           Pleasant Avenue        Eastbound
Â                           Pleasant Avenue        Westbound
Sheridan Avenue             Green Bay Road         Eastbound
Â                           North Central Avenue   Westbound
Sheridan Road               Walker Avenue/Depot    Southbound
                            Entrance
Â                           Washington Avenue      Northbound
Â                           Washington Avenue      Southbound
South Central Avenue        Highwood Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Oakridge Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Prairie Avenue         Northbound
Summit Avenue               High Street            Westbound
Â                           Maple Avenue           Eastbound
Â                           Maple Avenue           Westbound
Â                           Oak Avenue             Eastbound
Walker Avenue               Waukegan Avenue        Westbound
Washington Avenue           Green Bay Road         Eastbound
Â                           North Central Avenue   Eastbound
Â                           North Central Avenue   Westbound
Â                           Sheridan Road          Eastbound
Â                           Western Avenue         Westbound
Waukegan Avenue             Highwood Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Highwood Avenue        Southbound
Â                           Walker Avenue          Northbound
Webster Avenue              Lakeview Avenue        Eastbound
Â                           Sheridan Road          Westbound
Western Avenue              Ashland Avenue         Northbound
Â                           Burchell Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Highwood Avenue        Northbound
Â                           Highwood Avenue        Southbound
Â                           North Avenue           Northbound
Â                           North Avenue           Southbound
Â                           Prairie Avenue         Northbound
Â                           Prairie Avenue         Southbound
Â                           Washington Avenue      Northbound
Â                           Washington Avenue      Southbound
Wrendale Avenue             Maple Avenue           Northbound
Unnamed alley (running
parallel to North Avenue,   Green Bay Road         Eastbound
between Green Bay Road and
Funston Avenue)
Unnamed alley (running
parallel to Washington
Avenue between North        Washington Avenue      Westbound
Central Avenue and driveway
behind Green Bay Road)
Â 
(Ord. 2004-O-46, 6-15-2004; amd. Ord. 2009-O-39, 11-3-2009; Ord. 2009-O-40, 11-
3-2009; Ord. 2009-O-41, 11-3-2009; Ord. 12-O-47, 11-27-2012; Ord. 13-O-1, 1-8-
2013; Ord. 13-O-50, 9-3-2013; Ord. 14-O-24, 8-5-2014)
7-4-5: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Designation: The following streets and alleys are hereby designated for
one-way travel only by vehicles:
Street Direction Of Traffic From To
Street              Direction Of From                To
                    Traffic
Bank Lane           Â            Â                   Â 
On the east side of                                  Chicago and
the bank            Northerly    Highwood Avenue     Northwestern train
                                                     station parking lot
On the west side of              Chicago and
the bank            Southerly    Northwestern train  Highwood Avenue
                                 station parking lot
Clay Avenue         Easterly     Sheridan Road       Lakeview Avenue
Evert's Place       Southerly    Highwood Avenue     Prairie Avenue
Evolution Avenue    Southerly    Highwood Avenue     Prairie Avenue
Funston Avenue      Northerly    North Avenue        Llewellyn Avenue
Jeffrey's Place     Northerly    Prairie Avenue      Highwood Avenue
Lakeview Avenue     Southerly    Clay Avenue         Walker Avenue
North Avenue        Westerly     Green Bay Road      Palmer Avenue
Oak Terrace Avenue  Northerly    Highwood Avenue     North Avenue
Palmer Avenue       Southerly    North Avenue        Highwood Avenue
South Central       Northerly    Prairie Avenue      Highwood Avenue
Avenue
Webster Avenue      Easterly     Sheridan Road       Lakeview Avenue
Â                   Westerly     Sheridan Road       Bank Lane
Unnamed alley
(immediately east
of Sheridan Road    Southerly    Webster Avenue      Walker Avenue
and running
parallel to
Sheridan Road)
Unnamed alley
(immediately south
of Prairie Avenue   Westerly     Pleasant Avenue     South Central Avenue
and running
parallel to Prairie
Avenue)
Â 
(Ord. 15-O-22, 5-5-2015, eff. 7-1-2015)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Operation Of Vehicles: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-708 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-6: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Restrictions: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-601 and 5/11-606 shall apply. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Specific Speed Limits Established:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Streets: The maximum speed limit on all streets in the city shall be
twenty five (25) miles per hour. The twenty five (25) mile per hour speed limit
shall not apply to streets for which another maximum speed limit has been
declared and established by the city council when appropriate signs giving
notice of such other speed limits are erected at the proper place or along the
proper part or zone of such street. Traffic control devices in the form of
speed limit signs giving reasonable notice of this speed limit shall be placed
and maintained at the major or principal public way entrances to the city, as
follows:
Street And Direction Sign Facing On Street At Or Near Its Intersection With
Street And Direction Sign Facing On Street     At Or Near Its Intersection With
Green Bay Road, facing northwestbound traffic  Prairie Avenue
Highwood Avenue, facing westbound traffic      Easterly limits of the city
Lakeview Avenue, facing northbound traffic     Walker Avenue
Llewellyn Avenue, facing eastbound traffic     Western Avenue
Old Trail, facing eastbound traffic            Western Avenue
Prairie Avenue                                 Â 
Facing eastbound traffic                       Western Avenue
Facing westbound traffic                       Green Bay Road
Sheridan Road, facing southeastbound traffic   Washington Avenue
Walker Avenue, facing westbound traffic        Easterly city limits of the city
Washington Avenue, facing westbound traffic    Sheridan Road
Waukegan Avenue, facing northwestbound traffic Southerly limits of the city
Western Avenue                                 Â 
Facing northbound traffic                      Prairie Avenue
Facing southbound traffic                      Prairie Avenue
Â 
(Ord. 2003-O-63, 11-4-2003)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Alleys: No person shall drive a vehicle upon any alley within the
city in excess of ten (10) miles per hour, whether posted or unposted. (Ord.
75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Passing Schools: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-606
shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-7: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-801 and 5/11-802 shall apply.
(2009 Code)
7-4-8: DRIVING ON RIGHT:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-701 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-9: OVERTAKING, PASSING VEHICLES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Meeting and passing vehicles: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-702 shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Overtaking and passing vehicles: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-703 shall apply.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Overtaking vehicles on right: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-704 shall apply.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Limitations on overtaking on left: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-705 and 5/11-706 shall apply.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â No passing zones: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-707
shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-10: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Following too closely: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-710 shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Limitations on backing: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-1402 shall apply.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Coasting prohibited: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
1410 shall apply.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Driving on sidewalk prohibited: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1412.1 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-11: RAILROAD GRADE CROSSINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Obedience to signal indicating approach of train: Provisions of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1201 shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Certain vehicles must stop at all railroad grade crossings: Provisions
of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1202 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-12: SCHOOL BUSES; STOPPING, LOADING AND DISCHARGING PASSENGERS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1415 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-13: TRUCK TRAFFIC:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prohibited On Designated Streets; Exceptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Vehicles exceeding eight thousand (8,000) pounds' registered gross
weight or bearing a state of Illinois vehicle license, class D or over, or any
comparable class license issued by any other state, are prohibited from
movement upon the following named streets:
Â 
Street            Location
Michigan Avenue   Between the eastern city limits and the western city limits
Washington Avenue Between Green Bay Road and Western Avenue
Western Avenue    Between the northern city limits and the southern city limits
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Vehicles bearing a state of Illinois vehicle license, class L or
over, or any comparable class license issued by any other state, are prohibited
from movement upon the following named streets:
Â 
Street      Location
Lyster Road At any point
Ronan Road  At any point
Â 
(Ord. 2006-O-20, 6-6-2006)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The prohibitions established in this subsection shall not apply to
the following vehicles:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Vehicles making deliveries to or pick ups from property
accessible only via streets designated as "no truck" streets pursuant to this
subsection, unless said vehicle bears a state of Illinois vehicle license,
class S or over, or any comparable class license issued by any other state; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Vehicles operated on behalf of public utility companies for the
purpose of carrying out utility functions to service property accessible only
via streets designated as "no truck" streets pursuant to this subsection,
within the city; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â School buses; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Emergency vehicles when operating in the line of duty. (Ord.
2006-O-8, 3-7-2006)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Trucks In Alleys: It shall be unlawful for any vehicle with a gross
weight in excess of six (6) tons to operate or park in any alley within the
city. (Ord. 77-O-9, 9-16-1977)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Tractors And Trailers: All road tractors operated in combination with a
trailer or semitrailer shall be prohibited from movement upon the streets of
the city unless the operator displays in the windshield of the road tractor a
temporary use permit as defined in subsection D of this section. This
prohibition shall not apply to emergency vehicles when operating in the line of
duty. (Ord. 90-O-9, 5-15-1990; amd. Ord. 2006-O-8, 3-7-2006)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Permit Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Temporary street use permits may be granted by the mayor, chief of
police or any member of the police department authorizing the movement on city
streets by any vehicle otherwise prohibited by this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Application for a temporary street use permit shall be made by the
owner or operator of the vehicle or vehicles which will be the subject of the
permit, or by the owner of any property within the city to or from which such
vehicles will be traveling, and shall include all information which the mayor
or chief of police shall, from time to time, deem appropriate but shall, in any
event, include at least the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Name and address of applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Name and address of the owner of the vehicle or vehicles which
will be the subject of the permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The state of Illinois or other state vehicle license number of
the subject vehicle or vehicles;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A specific description of the vehicle or vehicles and load to be
operated or moved and whether such permit is requested for a single trip or for
limited continuous operation and date or dates of such trip or limited
continuous operation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The points of origin and destination of the subject vehicle or
vehicles;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Whether the vehicle or vehicles are being operated for hire; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The route or routes over which the applicant desires to operate
the subject vehicle or vehicles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The mayor, chief of police or any member of the police department
may issue such temporary street use permits upon determining that the proposed
street use is not inconsistent with traffic safety and maintenance of the
structural integrity of the city streets. Where a permit is issued, the issuing
officer may impose on such grant any conditions deemed appropriate to the
protection of the public safety and the structural integrity of all city
streets including, but not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Description of the route or routes to be traveled.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Establishment of season, weather condition or time limitations on
such operation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Restriction on the size and type of loads which may be moved by
virtue of such permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Description of appropriate safety measures and methods of
securing loads.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â In no event shall the mayor, chief of police, or any member of the
police department issue a temporary street use permit for a period exceeding
fourteen (14) days.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â During the term of such permit, the person to whom such permit is
issued and the owner and operator of the vehicle covered by the permit shall be
responsible for keeping all city streets used by such vehicle free and clear of
all dirt, mud, obstructions and hazards resulting from such use and shall
repair such damage thereby caused as may be necessary to keep routes for which
a permit has been issued in a reasonable state of repair for normal and safe
use. At the termination of the period for which such permit was issued, such
persons shall be responsible for causing all streets over which the subject
vehicles traveled to be restored to their condition prior to such use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The issuing officer may, as a condition to the issuance of a
temporary street use permit, require any applicant to post a bond, in an amount
to be established by the mayor or chief of police and in a form satisfactory to
the city attorney, to guarantee the adequate repair and restoration of all
streets over which travel is authorized by such permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Any temporary street use permit granted pursuant to this subsection
may be revoked by the mayor or chief of police or any member of the police
department if the person to whom the permit has been issued, or any person
acting on his behalf, violates any of the terms of the permit, any terms of
this section, or the terms of any other applicable ordinance, or where the
safety of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or the structural integrity of city
streets so require. Any such revocation may be appealed to the mayor and city
council for final determination.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The granting of a temporary use permit shall be in the sole
discretion of the mayor or chief of police. Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed as granting to any person, firm, corporation or entity any right to
the issuance of such a temporary permit. (Ord. 90-O-9, 5-15-1990)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Fees for temporary street use permits issued pursuant to this
subsection shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 90-O-9, 5-15-1990; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Signs Posted: The department of streets shall cause signs to be posted
at all appropriate locations within the city bearing the universal "no truck"
legend and a legend similar to the following: "No Semitrailer Trucks - Special
Permit Required". (Ord. 90-O-9, 5-15-1990)
7-4-14: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1420 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-4-15: SKATEBOARDING IN BUSINESS DISTRICT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard or ride upon a
skateboard within the business zoned districts of the city (B-1, B-2 and B-
3 zoning districts) including the public walkways, roadways, crosswalks and any
other municipally owned or leased property within said zoning districts. (Ord.
98-O-46, 5-19-1998; amd. 2009 Code)
7-4-16: IMPROPER, DANGEROUS DRIVING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Reckless Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or
wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless
driving.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Negligent Driving: Any person who drives any vehicle in a careless or
negligent manner so as to unnecessarily endanger persons or property is guilty
of negligent driving.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Drag Racing: No person shall drag race within the city. "Drag racing"
means the act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any street
or highway in the city in a situation in which one of the motor vehicles is
beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing driver, and
the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or
overtaking him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more individuals
competing in a race against time on any street or highway in the city. (Ord.
2001-O-20, 3-20-2001)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Driving Under The Influence Of Alcohol And/Or Drugs: Provisions of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-500, 5/11-501 and all subparts thereof, as
amended from time to time, through and including 5/11-501.1 through 5/11-501.5
shall apply. (Ord. 2001-O-20, 3-20-2001; amd. 2009 Code)
7-4-17: SAFE CARRYING OF PASSENGERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definition: The term "vehicle", as used in this section, shall have the
meaning defined in the Illinois vehicle code, as amended, or as may be defined
in any successor statute.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Scope: The provisions of this section shall apply to all areas and
parts of vehicles, whether interior or exterior.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Prohibitions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person or persons shall occupy a house trailer while it is being
moved upon a public street or highway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No person or persons shall occupy any area or part of a vehicle
designed or intended for pulling or carrying of property, freight or cargo
while such vehicle is being moved upon a public street or highway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No person or persons shall occupy any area or part of a vehicle not
designed or intended for the carrying of passengers while such vehicle is being
moved upon a public street or highway.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Approved Seating Areas: An area of a motor vehicle which is equipped
with a seat designed or intended for carrying of passengers and where required
by the Illinois vehicle code, as amended, seat safety belts shall be proper for
carrying of passengers under this section.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Violation Prohibited; Responsibility For Violation: No person shall
drive or move any vehicle upon a public street or highway while passengers
occupy any area in violation of this section. The driver of each vehicle shall
be responsible to assure compliance with all the provisions of this section
prior to commencing movement upon a public street or highway.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Prima Facie Proof: The fact that the number of passengers occupying a
vehicle exceeds the maximum number of passengers stated in the manufacturer's
specifications shall be prima facie evidence that one or more violations of
this section have occurred. (Ord. 92-O-24, 5-5-1992)
7-4-18: USE OF WIRELESS TELEPHONES AND ELECTRONIC DEVICES WHILE OPERATING A
MOTOR VEHICLE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall be
applicable:
Â Â Â  ELECTRONIC DEVICE: Any electronic device, including, but not limited to, a
wireless telephone, personal digital assistant, or a portable or mobile
computer while being used for the purpose of composing, reading, or sending an
electronic message, but does not include a global positioning system or
navigation system or a device that is physically electronically integrated into
the motor vehicle.
Â Â Â HANDS FREE DEVICE: An external device that connects to a mobile telephone
that allows the user to engage in a telephone call without touching the user's
mobile telephone.
Â Â Â USE OR USING: Talking or listening to another person, text messaging,
sending, reading or listening to an electronic message, or browsing the
internet.
Â Â Â WIRELESS TELEPHONE: A cellular, analog, wireless or digital telephone
capable of sending or receiving telephone messages without an access line for
service.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Use Of Wireless Telephones And Electronic Devices While Driving
Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided in subsection C of this section, no
person shall operate a motor vehicle while using any wireless telephone or
electronic device.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any person using a hands free device for voice communication,
provided that person does not touch the wireless telephone or electronic device
connected to such hands free device while operating or using the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any person using a wireless telephone or electronic device for
purposes of contacting or communicating with public safety or other emergency
service providers while driving a motor vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any person using a wireless telephone or electronic device while
maintaining a motor vehicle in a parked position.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any law enforcement officers and operators of emergency vehicles
when on duty and acting in their official capacities. (Ord. 13-O-28, 5-7-2013)
CHAPTER 5
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Manner Of Parking
7-5-3: Opening Vehicle Doors
7-5-4: No Parking Places; Moving Improperly Parked Vehicles
7-5-5: Parking Prohibited On Designated Streets
7-5-6: Overnight Parking
7-5-7: Parking On Parkways
7-5-8: Parking On Unpaved Surfaces
7-5-9: Parking In Fire Lanes
7-5-10: Parking Vehicles Containing Organic Waste
7-5-11: Parking For Sale, Washing Or Repairs
7-5-12: Truck Parking
7-5-13: Time Limit Parking
7-5-14: Leased Parking Areas
7-5-15: Prolonged Parking; Abandoned Vehicles
7-5-16: Storing Vehicles On Private Property
7-5-17: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
7-5-18: Exceptions
7-5-19: Enforcement
7-5-19-1: Removal Or Towing Illegally Parked Vehicles
7-5-19-2: Violation Settlements And Fines
7-5-19-3: Responsibility Of Lessors Of Vehicles
7-5-19-4: Prima Facie Proof
7-5-19-5: Removing Parking Violation Notice
7-5-19-6: Failure To Pay Fine; Suspension Of Driver's License
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
stated in this section. Any term not defined herein shall have the meaning
ascribed to it in other sections of this chapter or other ordinances of the
city, and if not defined in any other section or ordinance, shall have the
meaning ascribed in the Illinois vehicle code, as amended, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, unless used herein in a context that clearly requires
another definition.
ABANDONED: Factors which may be considered in ascertaining if a vehicle has
been abandoned include, but are not limited to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It does not have current valid state license plates (or a license
applied for sticker or temporary permit, in accordance with statute or the
rules and regulations of the Illinois secretary of state) displayed thereon; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Its condition; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The period during which it has not been moved; or
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Other circumstances indicating abandonment.
HAZARDOUS: Includes, but is not limited to, a vehicle:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In such a condition and such a position or location that it presents an
immediate danger to the health or welfare of members of the public; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â That presents a potential danger to pedestrians or operators of other
vehicles; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â That is parked in such a way as to block access to or use of a fire
hydrant or movement of any authorized emergency vehicle.
HIGHWAY: Shall include, but is not limited to, any publicly maintained off
street parking area.
INOPERABLE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any motor vehicle in view of the general public, whether on public or
private property, and from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â On which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered,
damaged, or otherwise treated so that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â "Inoperable" shall not include a motor vehicle:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â That has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under
its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations;
or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Kept within a building when not in use; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â That is an operable historic vehicle over twenty five (25) years of
age; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â On the premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or
junking of motor vehicles; provided, that such place of business shall be
otherwise properly licensed and authorized by or pursuant to the ordinances of
the city of Highwood.
OWNER: In subsections 7-5-19-1C2, E, F and G of this chapter, the term "owner"
of a vehicle may also include, in addition thereto, another person legally
entitled to possession of the vehicle, upon satisfactory proof thereof.
THIS CHAPTER: Shall mean or refer to all the provisions of this title relating
to towing or removal of vehicles hereunder, including sections
7-5-1 through
7-5-19-6 of this chapter, inclusive.
UNLAWFUL: Includes, but is not limited to, a vehicle parked in violation of any
statute or ordinance that authorizes the vehicle to be towed, especially when
signs posted at the location in question indicate that vehicles may be subject
to towing. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
7-5-2: MANNER OF PARKING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Outside Business Or Residence District: Upon any highway outside a
business or residence district, no person shall stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway when it is
practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off such part of the
roadway, but in every event, an unobstructed width of the roadway opposite a
standing vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a
clear view of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of two
hundred feet (200') in each direction upon such highway. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-
1993)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parallel Parking: Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a highway or
street where there is an adjacent curb shall be so stopped or parked with the
right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel with and within twelve inches (12")
of the right hand curb. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â One-Way Streets: Except when otherwise provided by ordinance, every
vehicle stopped or parked upon a one-way street shall be so stopped or parked
parallel to the curb or edge of the street, in the direction of authorized
traffic movement, with its right hand wheels within twelve inches (12") of the
right hand curb or edge of the street, or its left hand wheels within twelve
inches (12") of the left hand curb or edge of the roadway. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-
1993)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Stop Engine; Remove Key; Parking On Grade: No person driving or in
charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without first
stopping the engine and removing the ignition key and, when standing upon any
perceptible grade, without effectively setting the brake and turning the front
wheels to the curb or side of the street.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Starting Parked Vehicle: No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing, or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
7-5-3: OPENING VEHICLE DOORS:
No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to moving
traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and can be done without
interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person leave a
door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of
time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-
1975)
7-5-4: NO PARKING PLACES; MOVING IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Except when, and only so long as temporarily necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with law or the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device, no person shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked adjacent to
the edge or curb of a street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â On a sidewalk.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Within an intersection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â On a crosswalk.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â On any railroad tracks.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Upon residential property in locations other than driveway areas
and parking areas established in accordance with the applicable city
ordinances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Within an alley in such a position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In front of a public or private driveway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any stop sign,
yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â On any private property without the consent of the owner of the
property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Within an alley in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for the
free movement of vehicular traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily, for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â On any shoulder within the city, except that portion of a
shoulder cut back and improved for parking in accordance with a written permit
for the same pursuant to the ordinances of the city. Such permit may be issued
by the mayor of the city; provided, that the portion of the shoulder to be used
for parking shall be cut back and improved at the expense of the applicant, in
accordance with the standards and regulations approved by the city council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person other than a police officer shall move a vehicle into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful, or start
or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change, or
move the levers, brake, starting device, gears, or other mechanism of a parked
motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the owner
or driver of such vehicle, or attempt to do so. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993)
7-5-5: PARKING PROHIBITED ON DESIGNATED STREETS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Parking Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the
following streets:
Street From To
Street              From                         To
Bank Lane           Washington Street south      Webster Avenue
Burtis Place (all)  Â                            Â 
Highwood Avenue     Palmer Avenue west           City limits
Lockard Lane        Washington Avenue            Burchell Avenue
Mears Place         Green Bay Road west          Evert's Place
Michigan Avenue     West line of Pleasant Avenue West line of South Central
Oak Terrace Avenue  North Avenue                 Highwood Avenue
Prairie Avenue      Green Bay Road west          City limits
Sheridan Road       Washington Street north      City limits
Walker Avenue (all) Â                            Â 
Washington Street   Green Bay Road east          Sheridan Road
Webster Avenue for a distance of 200 feet east of Sheridan Road
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parking Between Seven O'Clock A.M. And Five O'Clock P.M.:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the following streets
between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., local time,
Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted:
Â 
Street               Side  From           To
Oakridge Avenue      North Â              Â 
South Central Avenue West  Prairie Avenue Highwood Avenue
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All parking on the west side of South Central Avenue, from Prairie
Avenue to Highwood Avenue, and on the north side of Oakridge Avenue, as an
exception to the provisions of subsection B1 of this section, is permitted only
if a valid parking sticker, decal or tag (hereinafter "parking permit") has
been purchased from the city for the vehicle and is properly and plainly
displayed upon the front windshield of the vehicle. The requirements and cost
of such a parking permit shall be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Subject to the provisions of subsections B2c and B2d of this
section, only residents of Highwood who reside on South Central Avenue, from
Prairie Avenue to Highwood Avenue, and on the north side of Oakridge Avenue,
shall be allowed to obtain such parking permits.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The costs of such parking permits are as follows: Three dollars
($3.00) per annum. The cost of an annual parking permit may be prorated on a
monthly basis if bought after July 1 of any year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Such parking permits shall be available to residents of the city
who reside on South Central Avenue, from Prairie Avenue to Highwood Avenue, and
on the north side of Oakridge Avenue, upon proof of residency.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â No more than four (4) parking permits per household shall be
issued to each household described in subsection B2c of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Residents of the city, as referred to in subsection B2c of this
section, may obtain additional daily parking permits, with each such permit
bearing the date of validity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The issuance of each parking permit referred to herein is subject
to the approval of the mayor and city administrator.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Parking Between Five O'Clock P.M. And Ten O'Clock P.M.: It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., as indicated by posted signage, of each day in any
posted parking zone so designated and authorized by the city, including, but
not limited to, all spaces on the west side of Green Bay Road between Highwood
Avenue, the last two (2) spaces north of the entrance to Bertucci's Restaurant
located at 246 Green Bay Road 1 , and the two (2) spaces located directly in
front of the property located at 256 Green Bay Road occupied by Washington
Gardens Restaurant.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Parking Between Eight O'Clock P.M. And Six O'Clock A.M.: It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on the following streets between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., local time:
Â 
Street       From           To
Morgan Place Prairie Avenue Mears Avenue
Â 
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Parking Between Ten O'Clock P.M. And Six O'Clock A.M.: It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on the following streets between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., local time:
Â 
Street        From           To
Evert's Place Prairie Avenue Highwood Avenue
Â 
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Parking On South Side Of Street: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle on the south side of the following streets:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Ashland Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Burchell Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Euclid Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Highwood Avenue, from High Street to a point seventy two feet (72') east
of the southeast corner of High Street and Highwood Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Llewellyn Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Michigan Avenue, from the east city limits to the west line of Pleasant
Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â North Avenue; except, during church services, parking shall be permitted
on the south side from Green Bay Road to Palmer Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Oakridge Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Sard Place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Sheridan Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Summit Place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Washington Street, from the city limits east to the middle of the
property known as 243 Washington Street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Washington Street, from the westernmost property line of the premises
known as 550 Green Bay Road (southwest corner of Washington and Green Bay Road)
west to Sheridan Road.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Webster Avenue.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Parking On East Side Of Street: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle on the east side of the following streets:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Euclid Court.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Evert's Place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Evolution Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Green Bay Road, from Washington north to the city limits.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Grove Street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â High Street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Jeffrey's Place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â North Central Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Palmer Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Pleasant Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â South Central Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Western Avenue, from that point which is the intersection of the north
curb line of Prairie Avenue with the east curb line of Western Avenue,
northward for a distance of one hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Western Avenue, from that point which is the intersection of the south
curb line of Highwood Avenue with the east curb line of Western Avenue,
southward for a distance of one hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Parking On West Side Of Street: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle on the west side of the following streets:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Elm Place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Funston Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Green Bay Road. No parking on the west side of Green Bay Road between its
intersection with North Avenue and the northerly line of the Highwood
recreation center (Don Skrinar Recreation Center) located at 428 Green Bay Road
1 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â High Street, from that point which is the intersection of the north curb
line Oakridge Avenue with the west curb line of High Street, northward for a
distance of sixty feet (60').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Maple Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Morgan Place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Waukegan Avenue, from that point which is the intersection of the north
curb line of Highwood Avenue with the west curb line of Waukegan Avenue,
northward for a distance of sixty feet (60').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Western Avenue between Jocelyn Place and Burchell Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Western Avenue, from its intersection with Highwood Avenue northward for
a distance of one hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Western Avenue, from that point which is the intersection of the north
curb line of Prairie Avenue with the west curb line of Western Avenue,
northward for a distance of one hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Western Avenue south of Prairie Avenue.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Parking On North Side Of Street: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle on the north side of the following streets:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Burchell Avenue, between Green Bay Road and Funston Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Highwood Avenue, from Palmer Avenue to a point sixty feet (60') east of
the northeast corner of Palmer Avenue and Highwood Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Washington Street, from the city limits east to Sheridan Road.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Additional No Parking Areas: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle
in any of the following places:
Street Location
Street                   Location
Carriage Lane            Northerly side
Deroo Loop               Easterly side
Deroo Loop cul-de-sac    Any part of the cul-de-sac at the northerly end of
                         Deroo Loop
Endicott cul-de-sac      On any part of the cul-de-sac at the intersection of
                         Endicott Lane and Endicott Road
Endicott Lane            Northerly side
Endicott Road            Easterly side
Holabird Circle (island) On any part of the inside portion
                         On the northerly and easterly sides, between its
Holabird Loop            intersection with Leonard Wood West, westerly and
                         northerly to the easterly end of the cul-de-sac
                         thereof
Holabird Loop cul-de-sac On the westerly 50 feet of the outside portion of the
                         cul-de-sac
Â                        On any part of the inside portion of the cul- de-sac
                         (island)
Janes Loop               Northwesterly side
Janes Loop cul-de-sac    On any part of the cul-de-sac, including the inside
                         portions thereof
Jocelyn Place            Northwesterly side
Lyster Road              On the easterly side, from its intersection with Ronan
                         Road, southward to the city limits
Â                        On the easterly side, from its intersection with Ronan
                         Road, northerly to the city limits
                         On any part of the cul-de-sac in Prall's Loop, and on
Prall's Loop cul-de-sac  the southerly side of that part of Prall's Loop in the
                         town of Fort Sheridan Subdivision running in a
                         generally westerly direction from such cul-de-sac
Reinzi Lane              On both sides of that portion which runs in a
                         generally easterly and westerly direction
Â                        On the easterly side of that portion which runs in a
                         generally northerly and southerly direction
Ronan Road               On both sides, from its intersection with Stables
                         Court East, easterly and northerly to the city limits
                         On the northerly side, from its intersection with
Â                        Lyster Road, easterly to its intersection with Stables
                         Court East
Stables Court            Northerly side
Stables Court East       Easterly side
Stables Court Way        Northerly side
Stables Court West       Easterly side
Westover Road            Northerly side in the town of Fort Sheridan
                         Subdivision
Â 
(Ord. 98-O-32, 4-21-1998; amd. Ord. 99-O-14, 3-2-1999; Ord. 2005-O-46, 8-16-
2005; Ord. 2006-O-7, 2-21-2006; Ord. 2006-O-35, 11-8-2006; Ord. 2008-O-17, 6-
17-2008; Ord. 2011-O-13, 6-7-2011; Ord. 13-O-8, 3-7-2013; Ord. 16-O-39, 8-16-
2016)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection H of this section.
1 1. See also subsection C of this section.
7-5-6: OVERNIGHT PARKING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prohibited Generally: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any
street in the city or any parking lot owned or operated by the city between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., local time. This
prohibition shall not apply to vehicles parked pursuant to section
7-5-14 of this chapter or vehicles parked pursuant to subsection C of this
section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Tow Away Zones: City parking lots are all hereby declared tow away
zones between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M., local time. Any vehicle parked or left unattended in any such lot during
such hours in violation of this section shall be subject to immediate towing
and removal. In addition to any other costs and penalties applicable to such
violation pursuant to this title, no person (other than officers and agents of
the city) may gain access to or recover such vehicle until they shall have
first paid in full the towing fee, storage fee, and all other applicable fees
arising out of such towing charged by the entity making such tow, as authorized
by the city. This subsection shall only be effective where signs are
prominently posted at such location giving notice of the tow away zone.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Permit Parking On Lakeview Avenue: Parking between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., local time shall be allowed
for passenger cars only, as defined by the Illinois vehicle code, on the west
side of Lakeview Avenue from Webster Avenue to Clay Avenue, provided that the
vehicle displays a valid parking sticker, decal, tab or permit which has been
purchased from the city of Highwood specifically allowing overnight parking for
the vehicle and is properly and plainly displayed upon the vehicle. Display of
such a valid overnight parking sticker, decal, tab or permit shall permit
parking on the above designated street area between the hours of two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., local time. A total of twenty four
(24) permits shall be available per quarter solely for residents with a maximum
of one permit available per residential unit. The cost of such a permit shall
be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code and shall be applied for as follows: (Ord. 15-O-25, 5-19-
2015)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The application for overnight parking shall be in such a form as
prescribed by the city manager, and shall contain the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The applicant's name;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The applicant's address, home telephone number and work telephone
number;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The description of the vehicle and the license number and
Highwood city sticker number of the vehicle to which the permit is issued (a
valid Highwood city vehicle sticker must have been purchased for the vehicle
seeking an overnight parking permit);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Such other information as is reasonably required by the city
council and/or city manager in order to process such application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event the application is granted, the city manager, or other
officer or employee designated by the city council, shall issue to the
successful applicant, an overnight parking sticker, decal, tag or permit, or
such other identification as is reasonably required to identify the granting of
the application for overnight parking on the designated street. However, the
permit shall not be granted until the applicant has paid in full the required
quarterly annual fee for such permit. (Ord. 14-O-28, 9-2-2014)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The permit and parking privileges may be rescinded by the city
council, or any municipal officer or employee designated by the city council,
with forty eight (48) hours' notice delivered to the applicant. However, in the
event the permit is rescinded, there shall be refunded to the applicant, a pro
rata share of the funds paid by the applicant. (Ord. 14-O-28, 9-2-2014; amd.
Ord. 15-O-24, 5-19-2015)
7-5-7: PARKING ON PARKWAYS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definition: For purposes of this section, the "parkway" is that portion
of real property lying between property owned by any entity other than the city
and the nearest curb line or lateral line of any improved road, street, or
alley within the city which is designed or intended for vehicular traffic.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Residential Districts: Except when, and only so long as temporarily
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with law or
the directions of a police officer or official traffic control device, no
person shall stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers, upon any portion of a parkway
(whether or not said parkway is paved or improved with a driveway or approach)
within any residential district within the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All Other Districts: In all other districts, other than the residential
districts, parking on parkways within the city is prohibited except where the
owner of the abutting property has secured a permit and built a parking space
thereon of concrete not less than five inches (5") in thickness, or an asphalt
surface upon a base not less than six inches (6") in thickness, and dimensions
of not less than nine feet (9') wide and twenty feet (20') long for each car.
No permits to construct a parkway parking space shall be granted in a zoned
residential district. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993)
7-5-8: PARKING ON UNPAVED SURFACES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any privately owned
property or premises within any zoning district within the city, whether
occupied or not, except momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers, if the
portion of the privately owned property or premises where the vehicle is parked
has not been paved with a previously permitted gravel lot/driveway, bituminous
or concrete pavement, cement paver bricks, or a similar hard, all weather,
durable and dustless surface, approved for the parking of vehicles and meeting
applicable ordinance requirements for the construction and maintenance of
parking areas.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Neither any person in possession or control of any property or premises
nor any owner or operator of any property or premises shall permit, suffer or
allow any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any privately owned property
or premises within any zoning district within the city, whether occupied or
not, except momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers, if the portion of
the privately owned property where the vehicle is parked has not been paved
with a previously permitted gravel lot/driveway, bituminous or concrete
pavement, cement paver bricks, or a similar hard, all weather, durable and
dustless surface, approved for the parking of vehicles and meeting applicable
ordinance requirements for the construction and maintenance of parking areas.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In no event shall any person stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied
or not, except momentarily to pick up or discharge passengers, upon any
privately owned property consisting of grass, dirt, earth or mud. (Ord. 2003-O-
66, 11-18-2003)
7-5-9: PARKING IN FIRE LANES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall park or allow any vehicle to stand or be left stopped
in any place which is designated as a fire lane, whether on public or private
property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â This section shall be effective at all locations within the city where
signs giving notice of the same are posted and are visible.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In addition to any other penalties and/or fines levied under this
section, any vehicle found in a marked fire lane in violation of this section
shall be subject to immediate towing as a hazardous vehicle in accordance with
other sections of this chapter. (Ord. 95-O-33, 12-5-1995)
7-5-10: PARKING VEHICLES CONTAINING ORGANIC WASTE:
No vehicle shall be parked within any area within the city limits when the
vehicle contains any organic waste material, unless the organic waste material
is fully enclosed so than no odor emanates therefrom, or unless the area of
such vehicle which contains the organic material is fully enclosed so than no
odor may escape therefrom. "Organic waste material", as used in this section,
shall include, but be not limited to, landscape waste, garbage, trash, building
material waste, etc. This section shall not apply to garbage, refuse or
sanitary trucks while actually engaged in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 98-O-70, 8-4-1998)
7-5-11: PARKING FOR SALE, WASHING OR REPAIRS:
No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway, public parking lot or
off street parking facility for the principal purpose of:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Displaying it for sale; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Washing, greasing, changing oil, or repairing such vehicle, except
repairs necessitated by an emergency. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993)
7-5-12: TRUCK PARKING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
Â Â Â  OPEN AREA: Any area other than the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A garage; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An accessory building which is completely enclosed and designed for
the storage of vehicles.
Â Â Â RESIDENTIAL AREA:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any area within the municipal limits of the city of Highwood zoned
other than B-1, B-2 or B-3; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any property zoned B-1, B-2 or B-3 which is vacant property, or is
actually used for residential purposes, including, but not limited to,
condominiums, apartments, single-family dwellings, or any multiple-family
dwellings.
Â Â Â TRUCK:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Every motor vehicle designed or altered and equipped for and used to
push, tow, draw, or transport vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar,
towline, or auxiliary axle, or to render assistance to disabled vehicles, or
any vehicle designed or altered and equipped as a flatbed truck for the purpose
of transporting upon it one or more vehicles, disabled or otherwise; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any vehicle bearing or registered under a state of Illinois class C
license plate, or any higher weight classification license plate or
registration, or any equivalent license plate or registration from any other
state.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibited In Residential Areas: No person shall stand or park any
"truck", as defined in subsection A of this section, on any street, driveway,
or open area within the residential areas of the city, except during and in
connection with the actual rendering, in the course of business, of services
within the residential areas. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
7-5-13: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to park a vehicle on the streets or lots in
excess of the time limits fixed by this section. (Ord. 2008-O-17, 6-17-2008)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Streets: No vehicle shall be parked for longer than two (2) hours at
any time between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
P.M., Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, upon the following streets
within the business district:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Bank Lane.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Clay Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Green Bay Road.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Highwood Avenue, from the east city limits to High Street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Highwood Avenue, north side, from Evert's Place to Green Bay Road.
Â Â Â Â Â Â North Avenue, from Green Bay Road west to Palmer Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Sheridan Road.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Washington Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Waukegan Avenue, except as provided in subsection C2 of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parking Lots:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â a. No vehicle shall be parked for longer than two (2) hours at any
time between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
in the following city owned or operated parking lots, Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays excepted:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The city owned parking lot adjacent to the city library.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The city owned or operated parking lot adjacent to the Union
Pacific Railroad tracks; provided, that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â The holder of a valid parking sticker shall be entitled to
park in any space in said lot, as provided below; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Any person who has deposited a fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code in the drop box for the designated space that the vehicle
occupies shall be entitled to park in the designated space for which the fee
has been paid for the remainder of the day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (C)Â Â Â The holder of a parking sticker as herein provided shall
not be entitled to park in any spaces leased pursuant to section
7-5-14 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The city owned parking lot located at 9 Walker Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Parking longer than two (2) hours in the city owned parking lot
adjacent to the city library, the city owned parking lot located at 9 Walker
Avenue, and the parking lot adjacent to the Union Pacific Railroad tracks,
which is owned, operated, leased or controlled by the city, as an exception to
the provisions of subsection B1a of this section is permitted as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â In all such lots if a valid parking sticker, decal or tag
(hereinafter "parking sticker") has been purchased from the city for the
vehicle and is properly and plainly displayed upon the vehicle. Display of such
a valid parking sticker shall permit parking in such lots during the hours of
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Display of such a parking
sticker shall not entitle any person to park in the twelve (12) hour parking
meter spaces designated in subsection B1b(2) of this section without properly
paying the parking meter as required. The cost of such a parking sticker shall
be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â As provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code, per quarter or per annum. The cost of an annual parking
sticker may be prorated if bought after January 1 of any year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Such parking stickers shall be available to residents of
the city (upon proof of residency) and individuals employed at locations within
the city (upon showing proof of such employment) at the reduced rate of thirty
dollars ($30.00) per quarter, or one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) per
annum. The cost of such parking sticker may be prorated if bought after January
1 of any year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (C)Â Â Â Such parking stickers shall be available to individuals
employed by the city (upon proof of employment) at no charge.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (D)Â Â Â Parking stickers allowing temporary parking shall be
available to any owner of a place of business within the city (upon proof of
same) for use by customers and employees of said businesses. Such temporary
parking stickers shall be transferable between vehicles belonging to customers,
owners and employees of said business, and shall permit vehicles displaying
such temporary parking sticker to park within said lots at the reduced rate of
thirty dollars ($30.00) per quarter or one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) per
annum.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (E)Â Â Â Any annual parking sticker issued hereunder may be
registered to an individual or to any owner of a place of business within the
city (upon proof of same). Such annual parking stickers shall be transferable
between vehicles belonging to customers, owners and employees of said business,
and shall permit vehicles displaying such annual parking sticker to park within
said lots.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Parking in spaces equipped with twelve (12) hour parking
meters in the city owned parking lot adjacent to the Union Pacific Railroad
tracks designated above is permitted at any time during the hours of five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. so long as the parking meter
has been properly paid and has not expired during such hours on such days.
Parking shall be permitted on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays without paying
said meter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â It shall be a violation of this subsection B1b(2) to have
any vehicle parked in any such parking meter space during such hours on such
days with the parking meter indicating time expired or not paid for pursuant to
the operation of such parking meter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Any person who violates the provisions of this subsection
B1b(2) shall, upon conviction or any finding of guilty thereof, pay a fine of
twenty dollars ($20.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be parked for longer than two (2) hours at any time
between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.,
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, in the entire city owned parking lot
adjacent to the Highwood city hall. No parking shall be permitted other than by
municipal officials and municipal vehicles in such areas of said parking lot as
are designated by the city council or any municipal officer or employee
designated by the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be parked for longer than four (4) hours at any
time between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
P.M., Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted, in the entire city owned
parking lot adjacent to the Highwood recreation center/municipal coliseum.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be parked at any time between the hours of five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. in the following city owned or
operated parking lots, Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The entire city operated parking lot adjacent to the Union
Pacific Railroad tracks at the Fort Sheridan commuter station at the northern
city limits; provided, that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The holder of a valid parking sticker shall be entitled to
park in any space in said lot, as provided below; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Any person who has deposited a fee in the sum as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code in the drop box for the designated space that the vehicle
occupies, shall be entitled to park in the designated space for which the fee
has been paid for the remainder of the day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Parking in the lot adjacent to the Union Pacific Railroad tracks
at the Fort Sheridan commuter station at the northern city limits is permitted
as follows: In all such lots if a valid parking sticker, decal or tag
(hereinafter "parking sticker") has been purchased from the city of Highwood
for the vehicle and is properly and plainly displayed upon the vehicle. Display
of such a valid parking sticker shall permit parking in such lots during the
hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Display of such a
parking sticker shall not entitle any person to park in the twelve (12) hour
parking meter spaces designated herein without properly paying the parking
meter as required. The cost of such a parking sticker shall be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â As provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code, per quarter or per annum. The cost of an annual parking
sticker may be prorated if bought after January 1 of any year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Such parking stickers shall be available to residents of the
city (upon proof of residency) and individuals employed at locations within the
city (upon showing proof of such employment) at the reduced rate of thirty
dollars ($30.00) per quarter, or one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) per
annum. The cost of such parking sticker may be prorated if bought after January
1 of any year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Such parking stickers shall be available to individuals
employed by the city (upon proof of employment) at no charge.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Parking stickers allowing temporary parking shall be
available to any owner of a place of business within the city (upon proof of
same) for use by customers and employees of said business. Such temporary
parking stickers shall be transferable between vehicles belonging to customers,
owners and employees of said business and shall permit vehicles displaying such
temporary parking sticker to park within said lots at the reduced rate of
thirty dollars ($30.00) per quarter or one hundred twenty dollars ($120.00) per
annum.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Any annual parking sticker issued hereunder may be registered
to an individual or to any owner of a place of business within the city (upon
proof of same). Such annual parking stickers shall be transferable between
vehicles belonging to customers, owners and employees of said business and
shall permit vehicles displaying such annual parking sticker to park within
said lots.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Posted Parking Zones:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be parked for longer than fifteen (15) minutes at
any time between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight of each day in any posted parking zone so designated and
authorized by the city, including up to three (3) spaces on the south side of
the 100 block of Washington Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be parked for longer than thirty (30) minutes at
any time between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. of each day in any posted parking zone so designated and authorized by the
city, including:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Up to two (2) spaces on the east side of Waukegan Avenue adjacent
to 311 Waukegan Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Up to one space on the east side of Waukegan Avenue adjacent to
313 Waukegan Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be parked for longer than fifteen (15) minutes at
any time between the hours of nine oâclock (9:00) A.M. and five oâclock (5:00)
P.M. of each day in any posted parking zone to designated and authorized by the
city, including up to two (2) spaces on the east side of the 300 block of
Waukegan Avenue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be parked for longer than fifteen (15) minutes at
any time between the hours of four oâclock (4:00) P.M. and nine oâclock (9:00)
P.M. of each day in any posted parking zone to designated and authorized by the
city, including up to three (3) spaces on the west side of the 200 block of
Green Bay Road. (Ord. 2000-O-19, 4-4-2000; amd. Ord. 2003-O-66, 11-18-2003;
Ord. 2006-O-25, 8-1-2006; 2009 Code; Ord. 14-O-27, 9-2-2014; Ord. 21-O-08, 5-4-
2021)
7-5-14: LEASED PARKING AREAS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city council, or designee, is hereby authorized to designate up to
twenty five (25) parking spaces in the city owned lot adjacent to the Union
Pacific Railroad tracks as "leased spaces" to be leased by the city for parking
of vehicles on a quarter-annual basis.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any city council designee is hereby authorized to grant to selected
applicants a permit to park a single vehicle in any such space as is designated
for the applicant's use. No space shall be leased to an applicant unless such
applicant is a resident of the city or the applicant's business is located in
the city. Any vehicle to be parked in the leased space shall display a current
city vehicle sticker and shall be registered to applicant. Any city council
designee is hereby authorized to promulgate such reasonable rules and
regulations as may be necessary to regulate the leased spaces.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The applicant shall remove all snow and ice or any other foreign matter
from the space in leased area.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The applicant shall promptly notify the city if any signs or
designations indicating the leased space are removed or damaged so as to allow
the city to replace said signage.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Only one vehicle may be parked in each leased space at any given time.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The applicant shall cause a valid parking sticker, decal or tag, as
issued by the city, to be properly and plainly displayed upon the vehicle at
all times when the vehicle is within the leased space, along with a current
city vehicle sticker. Such vehicle shall be registered to the applicant.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Any applicant leasing a space pursuant to this subsection agrees and
acknowledges that the city shall not be held accountable in any manner for any
damage to the vehicle, any person or property or in any other manner whatsoever
due to the leasing of said space. By application for and/or acceptance of a
vehicle parking sticker, decal or tag, the applicant indemnifies and holds
harmless the city for any and all claims, causes of action or otherwise from
the applicant or any other person, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney fees arising out of the leasing, use and occupancy of said leased
space.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The application for a permit shall be in such a form as prescribed by
the mayor and the city clerk, but shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The applicant's name.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The applicant's address, home telephone number and work telephone
number.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The description of the vehicle or vehicles and the license number
and city sticker number of the vehicles which are to occupy the designated
parking space.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Such other information as is reasonably required by the city council
and/or city clerk in order to process such application.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â In the event the application is granted, the city clerk or city council
designee shall issue to the applicant a parking sticker, decal or tag or such
other identification as is reasonably required to identify the granting of the
application for the use of the designated leased space. However, the permit
shall not be granted until the applicant has paid in full the required
quarterly-annual fee for such permit. (Ord. 98-O-83, 10-20-1998)
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The applicant shall pay in advance the sum as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code as a condition precedent to the issuance of the permit.
Said fee will allow parking of one vehicle at a time in a single designated
space. The permit and parking privileges may be rescinded by the city council
or designee, with forty eight (48) hours' notice delivered to the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â However, in the event the permit is rescinded, there shall be
refunded to the applicant a pro rata share of the funds paid by the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Once the parking permit is rescinded, the applicant shall cause any
vehicles to be promptly removed from such leased parking area. In the event the
applicant fails to remove said vehicles, in addition to any other fine or
penalty provision of this chapter, the applicant shall pay any and all towing
charges and any and all reasonable attorney fees incurred by the city in
bringing any action to enforce the provisions of this subsection.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â The department of streets shall cause signs to be posted at the parking
area designating the area as "permit parking area" and further indicating such
area as a "tow away zone", as provided by Illinois statute.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Any vehicle parked or left standing in such leased spaces for any
period of time shall be deemed abandoned and subject to towing and removal as
provided by law and in accordance with section
7-5-15 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-O-83, 10-20-1983; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the mayor or his
designee may authorize the leasing of such spaces to any entity using same to
foster car pooling or energy conservation or any governmental, transportation,
or not for profit entity. (Ord. 2001-O-57, 9-18-2001)
7-5-15: PROLONGED PARKING; ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any automobile or other vehicle parked or left standing in any one
place on any public street in the city for a consecutive period of forty eight
(48) hours or more shall be deemed abandoned and subject to towing and removal
as provided by law. Such towing and removal shall not be made pursuant to this
section unless and until notice thereof is first placed conspicuously on the
vehicle for a period of not less than twelve (12) hours. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-
1993)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The chief of police, as custodian of lost and abandoned property, shall
take possession of such vehicle and dispose of it as provided by section
7-5-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
7-5-16: STORING VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store, or leave, or to
permit the parking, storing, or leaving, of any licensed or unlicensed motor
vehicle or part thereof upon any private property within the city for more than
seven (7) days if said motor vehicle or part thereof, whether attended or not,
is in a discarded, wrecked, partially dismantled, inoperative, or abandoned
condition.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any motor vehicle or part thereof found to be parked, stored, or left
in violation of this section shall be deemed "abandoned" and subject to towing
and removal pursuant to law.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â This section shall not apply to any motor vehicle or part thereof that
is parked, stored, or left in a fully enclosed building. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-
1993)
7-5-17: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A "handicapped person", for the purposes of this section, shall be any
person defined as "a person with disabilities" pursuant to the Illinois vehicle
code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-159.1, and whose vehicle displays
handicapped license plates issued by the state of Illinois or who has obtained
a sticker, placard, or the like from the state of Illinois to be issued to
handicapped persons, and displays same on said vehicle.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to park a vehicle or
to leave a vehicle unattended in any area designated by the owner thereof or
the corporate authorities as "handicapped parking", unless either the driver or
a passenger in the vehicle is a handicapped person or a disabled veteran. Both
the owner of the property, or the corporate authority in the case of property
located in areas owned or controlled by the city, including, but not limited
to, public rights of way or municipal parking areas, may designate "handicapped
parking" by appropriate signage and/or pavement markings.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any property owner reserving a portion of a parking area for
handicapped parking is deemed to have granted the city the right to enforce
this parking restriction. (Ord. 99-O-65, 10-5-1999)
7-5-18: EXCEPTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â On the occasion of special public events creating unusual traffic
conditions, the chief of police, after investigation and upon his determination
that the public safety and convenience would be served, may temporarily
authorize the parking of vehicles in places and at times otherwise prohibited
under the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The chief of police shall, by posting or causing the posting of
appropriate signs or otherwise, give notice of the times and locations at which
the parking of vehicles is so temporarily permitted. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993)
7-5-19: ENFORCEMENT:
7-5-19-1: REMOVAL OR TOWING ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority To Remove:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway
or street in violation of any of the provisions of this title, such officer is
authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
main traveled part of such highway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety at the expense of the owner any unattended,
abandoned or disabled vehicle left standing upon any highway, causeway, alley
or street in such a position or under such circumstances as to obstruct the
normal movement of traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The removal or towing of vehicles by the city or its approved towing
service operators shall be authorized only by the Highwood police department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Towed vehicles shall be impounded only at facilities designated by
the Highwood police department until lawfully claimed or disposed of pursuant
to provisions of this chapter or the laws of the state.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inoperable Motor Vehicles:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All inoperable motor vehicles are hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. Notice thereof shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Be mailed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â By certified or registered mail, return receipt requested;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â With a second copy by regular first class mail;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â To the owner at his address indicated in the most current
registration list of the secretary of state of the state in which such vehicle
is registered;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Or to such other person in control of said inoperable motor
vehicle;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â As soon as possible after discovery of the inoperable motor
vehicle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Be in the form attached to the ordinance codified herein and:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Direct the owner, or other person in control of the same, to
remove the inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof, promptly, and within no
more than seven (7) days; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Indicate that failure to comply is a violation of city
ordinance, punishable by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00)
nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Failure to fully comply with the terms of such inoperable vehicle
notice in subsection B1b of this section shall be unlawful and:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Shall be punishable by a fine of not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each day; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Such inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof may be removed,
towed or impounded when authorized by the Highwood police department after
seven (7) days following such notice as provided above. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-
1993)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hazardous, Unlawful Vehicles:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Notice Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No notice shall be required prior to towing, removing or
impounding any hazardous or unlawful vehicle, or any other vehicle where not
otherwise required by law or by ordinance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â (1) When any abandoned or inoperable vehicle is to be removed or
towed, and the owner or person in charge of the vehicle is not present, prior
notice must be given as provided in this subsection, unless the vehicle:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â Endangers public safety; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Impedes the movement of traffic; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (C)Â Â Â Is illegally parked on a highway; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (D)Â Â Â Is or was reported stolen.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â During the months of October, November, December, January,
February, March, April, and May, where any vehicle is otherwise parked in
violation of the provisions of this chapter (including section
7-5-6 prohibiting parking between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 5:00 A.M.) where
the city, as evidenced by the directive of the mayor, the superintendent of
public works, or their respective designees, has declared a snow emergency, or
where a total snow accumulation of two (2) or more inches has occurred, such
vehicle may be removed or towed without notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Notice of intent to tow shall be placed on the vehicle
immediately. The notice shall contain:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The earliest date upon which the tow may take place; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The address and phone number of the Highwood police
department; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Information sufficient to apprise the owner or person in
charge of the vehicle of a right to a hearing to contest the proposed removal
or towing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â If the name and address of the owner of the vehicle can be
readily ascertained from records of the Illinois secretary of state, prior
written notice of intent to tow shall be given to such owner. Such notice shall
be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Mailed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â By certified or registered mail, return receipt requested;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â With a second copy by regular first class mail;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (C)Â Â Â To the owner;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (D)Â Â Â At his address indicated in the most current registration
list of the secretary of state of the state in which such vehicle is
registered;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (E)Â Â Â As soon as possible after determining to remove or tow the
vehicle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â In the form attached to the ordinance codified herein. (Ord.
99-O-05, 1-19-1999)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Intent To Tow Hearing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â When, pursuant to subsection C1 of this section, notice is given
or required before removing or towing a vehicle, the owner of such vehicle
shall have seven (7) days to request a hearing to contest such removal or
towing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The seven (7) day period for making such request shall begin:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â On the day of the first mailing of notice, in accordance
with subsection C1c of this section; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â If the name and address of the owner of the vehicle can
not be readily ascertained from records of the Illinois secretary of state, on
the day when notice is first placed on the vehicle, pursuant to subsection C1c
of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The request must be made in writing, and may, but need not
be, on forms furnished by the police department for such purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Unless such written request is delivered to and actually
received by the Highwood police department within said seven (7) day period,
the vehicle may be towed, and any pre-tow hearing rights under the provisions
of this subsection C2 shall be deemed waived.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Upon a timely request for a pre-tow hearing, pending a final
disposition of such hearing, the vehicle shall not be towed or removed, except
as otherwise authorized by law or an ordinance of the city.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notice Following Removal Or Towing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When removal, towing or impoundment of a vehicle is authorized by
the Highwood police department, notice thereof shall be given as provided by
law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event that such notice is not provided for by law, notice
thereof shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Be mailed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â By certified or registered mail, return receipt requested;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â With a second copy by regular first class mail;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â To the owner;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â At his address indicated in the most current registration
list of the secretary of state of the state in which such vehicle is
registered;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â As soon as possible after the vehicle has been removed, towed
or impounded, but not more than seven (7) days after such removal, towing or
impoundment; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Be in the form attached to ordinance 93-O-22; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Contain information sufficient to apprise the owner or person in
charge of the vehicle of a right to a hearing, as provided in this subsection
and subsection F of this section, to contest the removal, towing or
impoundment.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Release Of Towed Vehicle:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Vehicles which have been authorized to be removed, towed or
impounded by the Highwood police department shall be released as provided by
law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event that such release is not provided for by law, the
following provisions shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Before any person shall be permitted to remove such a vehicle,
the owner of such vehicle shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Furnish evidence of his or her identity, and ownership or
right to possession of the vehicle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Sign a receipt for the vehicle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Pay the standard towing and storage fees established by the
towing service operator and approved by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The chief of police is authorized to promulgate regulations as to
the documents or other proof necessary to establish these facts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The owner must take possession of the vehicle and remove it
within twenty four (24) hours of the payment required in subsection E2a(3) of
this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Payment as required in subsection E2a(3) of this section does not
prevent a person from subsequently requesting a hearing pursuant to subsection
F of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection to the contrary,
the owner may remove a vehicle without paying towing or storage fees upon
presentation of an order for release issued pursuant to subsection G3b(2)(B) of
this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Fees for towing and storage shall be posted in the city hall and
the Highwood police department at least fourteen (14) days before taking
effect, and said published fees shall remain available for inspection as long
as said fees are in effect.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Post-Tow Hearing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When the city has authorized a vehicle to be removed, towed or
impounded, the owner of such vehicle may request a post-tow hearing to
determine the validity of such tow, removal or impoundment, and any towing or
storage charges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Such request must be made within fifteen (15) days after the date of
mailing of notice or release of the vehicle, whichever occurs first.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The request must be made in writing, and may, but need not be, on
forms furnished by the police department for such purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â If such written request is not delivered to and actually received by
the Highwood police department within said fifteen (15) day period, the right
to a post-tow hearing under the provisions of this section shall be deemed
waived.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Hearing Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Scheduling Hearing: Upon proper request, the city shall schedule a
date, time and place for a hearing as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of such request for a
hearing, except as provided in subsection G1b of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Where the vehicle has already been removed, towed, or impounded,
and has not been released, the owner may request an expedited hearing, which
shall be scheduled:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Within twenty four (24) hours after such request for such
hearing, excluding weekends and holidays.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Except, that if such request is made after three o'clock (3:
00) P.M., then a hearing shall be held on the second working day following the
request.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Upon receipt of a proper request for a hearing, but not less than
forty eight (48) hours before such hearing, the city shall notify the owner of
the date, time and place for such hearing by telephone, by mail, or in person
as the circumstances require. Upon receipt of a request for hearing pursuant to
subsections G1b of this section, the city shall, at the earliest possible time,
notify the owner of the date, time and place of such hearing, by telephone or
in person.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Whenever a hearing is requested pursuant to subsection C2 or F of
this section, the chief of police or his designee shall serve as hearing
officer; provided, that no person shall serve as hearing officer who was
directly involved in the initial decision to tow the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing in an informal
manner and shall not be bound by the technical rules of evidence.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The issue to be determined at the hearing is whether lawful
authority exists for the towing and any storage of the vehicle. The person
demanding the hearing shall have the burden of establishing that he has a right
to possession of the vehicle. The city shall have the burden of establishing
that there was lawful authority for the towing and any storage of the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â After reviewing all relevant evidence presented at the hearing,
the hearing officer shall make his determinations based upon a preponderance of
the evidence. The hearing officer shall record this determination and the basis
for such determination in writing and provide the owner with a copy of such
written determination.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The hearing officer shall not determine or adjudicate, and the
hearing will not be determinative of or adjudicate, any citation issued
relative to any vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The city or the owner may contest the decision of the hearing
officer in any manner provided by law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Whenever the hearing officer determines that the owner is
entitled to reimbursement by the city, the hearing officer shall transmit a
copy of his written determination to the city treasurer, who shall remit
payment of the money due to the owner within twenty eight (28) days after the
decision of the hearing officer, unless the city files a lawsuit to contest the
decision of the hearing officer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Determination:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Towing Justified: If the hearing officer determines that lawful
authority exists for removal, towing or impounding the vehicle, as the case may
be, or that the owner of the vehicle failed to request a hearing pursuant to
subsection C2 or F of this section, the written determination of the hearing
officer shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â For pre-tow hearings, direct that the vehicle be towed, with
any towing and storage costs to be imposed upon the owner thereof, in
accordance with subsection E2a(3) of this section. The owner of the vehicle
having had such a hearing may avoid the towing, removal or impoundment by
immediately removing the vehicle from the improper location to a proper, lawful
location and correcting any unlawful condition of the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â For post-tow hearings, indicate the amount due for towing and
storage of the vehicle. The hearing officer may determine that the owner
incurred additional storage charges for reasons not the fault of the owner and,
therefore, excuse some or all of said storage charges. The specific amount owed
by the owner and the specific amount of any charges excused shall be stated in
the written determination of the hearing officer. If a specific amount of any
charges is excused, then:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â The owner of a vehicle that has been released shall be
reimbursed by the city for the amount of any charges excused.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â The owner of a vehicle that is still impounded may obtain
the release of the vehicle upon payment of the amount owed; provided, that the
owner presents the written determination of the hearing officer to the towing
service operator at the time of such payment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Towing Not Justified: If the hearing officer determines that
lawful authority does not exist for towing, removing or impounding the vehicle,
or that the requirements for towing a vehicle had not been satisfied, the
written determination of the hearing officer shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â For pre-tow hearings, direct that the vehicle shall not be
towed. The owner the vehicle may display his copy of the written determination
inside the vehicle. No vehicle about which such a decision has been rendered
shall be towed by the city unless:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â The circumstances under which the decision was rendered
have changed; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â The procedures for towing similarly situated vehicles
pursuant to law or under this chapter are followed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â For post-tow hearings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â If the vehicle has been released to the owner, note the
amount of towing and storage fees prepaid and advise the owner that such towing
and storage fees shall be reimbursed by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â If the vehicle is still impounded at the time of the
hearing, direct that the vehicle shall be released. This written determination
of the hearing officer shall be an order for release which, upon presentation
by the owner to the towing service operator, shall entitle said person to
release of the vehicle without payment of any towing or storage charges
theretofore incurred.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Disposition Of Towed Vehicle:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Compliance With Law: Any vehicle removed, towed or impounded
pursuant to the authority of the Highwood police department shall be disposed
of as provided by law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sale Of Towed Vehicle:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In the event that such disposition is not provided for by law,
the vehicle may be sold by the Highwood police department to the highest bidder
at either a private or public sale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be sold under this subsection H2 until at least
thirty (30) days after the latter of:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â If a hearing is requested, the date of a hearing officer's
written determination; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â If no hearing is requested, the expiration of the period for
requesting a vehicle tow hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Notice of any sale pursuant to this subsection H2 shall be
mailed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â By certified or registered mail, return receipt requested.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â To the owner of the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â At his address as indicated in the most current registration
list of the secretary of state of the state in which the vehicle is registered.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â At least thirty (30) days in advance of a sale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Such notice shall also be published:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â At least twenty (20) days in advance. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-
1993)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â In a newspaper of general circulation in the city. (Ord. 93-
O-22, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Vehicle Immobilization And Towing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Authorization: The police department of the city is hereby
authorized to direct and supervise a program of vehicle immobilization for the
purpose of enforcing the parking regulations of the city. Any police officer of
the city is hereby authorized to cause the immobilization, by placement of a
restraint in such a manner as to prevent its operation, of any vehicle parked
upon any public street or way, or upon any other city owned property, that is
eligible for immobilization and that has been included on the vehicle
immobilization list pursuant to this subsection. The chief of police may
establish such rules and procedures not inconsistent with the terms of this
subsection to administer the city's immobilization program.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Eligibility For Immobilization: A vehicle shall be considered
eligible for immobilization when the registered owner of the vehicle has
accumulated five (5) or more citations, all of which are more than thirty (30)
days old, and for which the fines and penalties have not been paid in full,
issued against any vehicle registered to such owner charging that such vehicle
was in violation of the city's standing, parking, or compliance regulations.
Every such vehicle shall hereafter be referred to as an eligible vehicle. Any
eligible vehicle found upon any street or public place within the city may be
immobilized in place by use of a mechanical device for such purpose. Such
device may be called a "boot", and the use of the same may be called "booting".
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Notice Of Pending Immobilization: The police department shall cause
a notice of pending immobilization to be sent to the registered owner of any
eligible vehicle. The notice shall be sent by certified mail or registered
mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the registered owner of the
eligible vehicle recorded with the Illinois secretary of state, or if the
eligible vehicle bears a registration number of a state other than Illinois,
then at the address of the registered owner recorded in that state's registry
of motor vehicles. The notice of pending immobilization shall provide the
following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A description of the vehicle, including the make, model, year,
and color of the eligible vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The eligible vehicle's vehicle identification number, and the
number and state of the license plate displayed on the eligible vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The name and address of the registered owner of the eligible
vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The number and issue dates of the outstanding parking citations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A statement that the registered owner's vehicle is subject to
immobilization pursuant to this subsection, unless the registered owner, within
ten (10) days of receipt of the pending immobilization notice:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Submits to the city payment for the full fine or penalty
amount due for each outstanding parking citation; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Requests a pre-immobilization hearing to contest the notice
of pending immobilization.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Pre-Immobilization Hearing Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Request For Hearing: The registered owner of an eligible vehicle
may contest the validity of a notice of pending immobilization by delivering to
the chief of police, within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice of
pending immobilization, a written request for a pre-immobilization hearing. If
the registered owner of an eligible vehicle does not request a pre-
immobilization hearing pursuant to this subsection I4a within said ten (10) day
period, then the right to a pre-immobilization hearing shall be deemed waived.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Scheduling Of Hearing: The chief of police or his or her designee
shall schedule a pre-immobilization hearing within ten (10) days after receipt
of the written request and shall promptly notify the registered owner of the
eligible vehicle of the scheduled hearing date and time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Conduct Of Hearing: The pre-immobilization hearing may be
conducted either by the chief of police or by his or her designee. The
registered owner of the eligible vehicle must appear in person at the hearing
and, to invalidate the notice of pending immobilization, submit evidence that
conclusively demonstrates that the registered owner's vehicle is not an
eligible vehicle. Such evidence may include demonstration of any of the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The registered owner is not the owner or lessee of the
subject vehicle on the date or dates that the parking citations were issued; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The fines or penalties for the parking citations identified
in the notice of pending immobilization have been paid in full; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The registered owner has not accumulated five (5) or more
outstanding parking citations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Decision:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Based on the evidence presented by the registered owner, the
chief of police or his or her designee shall issue a written decision either:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â Affirming the validity of the notice of pending
immobilization and confirming that the subject vehicle is an eligible vehicle
subject to immobilization pursuant to this subsection; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Revoking the notice of pending immobilization.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â A copy of the written decision shall be delivered to the
registered owner within forty eight (48) hours after the conclusion of the pre-
immobilization hearing. The decision of the chief of police or his or her
designee to affirm or revoke the notice of pending immobilization shall be
final.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Action If Affirmed: If the decision affirms the validity of the
pending immobilization notice, the decision shall be accompanied by a notice
that the registered owner has three (3) days to pay, or cause to be paid, all
outstanding parking citation fines and penalties, and that failure to do so
will subject the registered owner's vehicle to immediate immobilization.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â No Determination Of Violations: A pre-immobilization hearing
shall not be determinative of, and shall not be used or construed to
adjudicate, any of the individual parking violation citations on which the
notice of pending immobilization was based, or any other violation of any city
ordinance relating to the eligible vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Vehicle Immobilization List: The chief of police or his or her
designee shall create, keep, and maintain a vehicle immobilization list. The
chief of police or his or her designee shall place on the vehicle
immobilization list the vehicle registration number of all eligible vehicles
for which the registered owner has: a) failed to respond to a notice of pending
immobilization within ten (10) days after receipt of such notice; or b) failed
to pay all outstanding parking citation fines and penalties within three (3)
days after receipt of the decision following a pre-immobilization hearing to
affirm the validity of a notice of pending immobilization. Any police officer
may, in a manner consistent with this subsection, immediately immobilize any
vehicle included on the vehicle immobilization list without further notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Immobilizing Restraint: When immobilizing an eligible vehicle
pursuant to the provisions of this subsection, the police department shall use
the "Denver boot" or other similar wheel locking restraint in such a manner as
to prevent operation of the vehicle. Every such vehicle so restrained shall
hereafter be referred to as an "immobilized vehicle".
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Unauthorized Activities: It shall be unlawful for any person to
relocate or to tow any immobilized vehicle except in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection. It shall also be unlawful for any person to
damage an immobilizing restraint or to remove or attempt to remove an
immobilizing restraint without authorization. Any person who violates any
provision of this subsection I7 shall be: (Ord. 2006-O-15, 4-18-2006)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Subject to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation;
and (Ord. 2006-O-15, 4-18-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Pay all costs to repair or replace the immobilization restraint
damaged or destroyed by such person.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Notice Of Immobilization: Upon immobilization of a vehicle, the
police officer present shall immediately cause to be placed upon such vehicle,
in a conspicuous manner, notice sufficient to warn any individual that such
vehicle has been immobilized and that any attempt to move such vehicle might
result in damage to such vehicle and/or the boot device. A notice of
immobilization shall be immediately affixed to any eligible vehicle immobilized
pursuant to this subsection. The notice of immobilization shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â State that the eligible vehicle is immobilized, and that any
attempt to move the immobilized vehicle may result in damage to the vehicle.
(Ord. 2006-O-15, 4-18-2006)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â State that the unauthorized removal of or damage to the
immobilizing restraint is prohibited and punishable by a fine of not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each such violation. (Ord. 2006-O-15, 4-18-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Provide information on how the registered owner may secure
release of the immobilizing restraint.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Provide information on how the registered owner may obtain a
post-immobilization hearing pursuant to this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â State that if the registered owner fails to secure release of the
immobilizing restraint or to request a post-immobilization hearing within
twenty four (24) hours, the immobilizing restraint may be released by the city,
and the eligible vehicle may be towed and impounded.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Release Of Immobilizing Restraint: The registered owner of an
immobilized vehicle, or other person entitled to possession of such vehicle,
may secure the release of an immobilizing restraint by paying or causing to be
paid to the city the following fees and penalties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â An immobilization fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â All parking citation fines and penalties issued against the
immobilized vehicle that remain outstanding, including specifically, but
without limitation, the parking citations identified in the notice of pending
immobilization.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Towing And Impoundment Of Immobilized Vehicle: If the registered
owner of the immobilized vehicle or other authorized person does not secure the
release of the immobilizing restraint or request a post-immobilization hearing
within twenty four (24) hours of the immobilization, the police department
shall be authorized to cause such vehicle to be towed and impounded. If a
request for a post-immobilization hearing is received within this time, the
towing and impounding of the immobilized vehicle shall be deferred pending the
outcome of the post-immobilization hearing. The provisions set forth in
subsection E of this section regarding impounded vehicles parked illegally
shall apply fully to all immobilized vehicles impounded pursuant to this
subsection; provided, however, that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In addition to the towing and storage charges imposed pursuant to
subsection E of this section, the fees and penalties specified in subsection I8
of this section shall be paid before the owner or person entitled to possession
of the impounded vehicle shall be permitted to repossess or secure the release
of such vehicle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Notification to be provided to the owner of the impounded vehicle
under subsection D of this section shall include a statement that the vehicle
was impounded pursuant to the provisions of this subsection, and that the
registered owner has a right to appeal the immobilization, towing, and
impoundment of such vehicle by requesting a post-immobilization hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Post-Immobilization Hearing Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Request For Hearing: The registered owner of an immobilized or
impounded vehicle shall have the right to contest the validity of the
immobilization and any subsequent immobilization, towing, or storage fees by
delivering a written request for a post- immobilization hearing to the chief of
police within five (5) days after the immobilization of the vehicle. If the
registered owner of an immobilized or impounded vehicle does not request a
post-immobilization hearing pursuant to this subsection I11a within said five
(5) day period, then the right to a post- immobilization hearing shall be
deemed waived.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Scheduling Of Hearing: The chief of police or his or her designee
shall schedule a post-immobilization hearing within three (3) days after
receipt of the written request, and shall promptly notify the registered owner
of the eligible vehicle of the scheduled hearing date and time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Conduct Of Hearing: The hearing may be conducted either by the
chief of police or by his or her designee. At the hearing, the registered owner
must appear in person and present evidence conclusively establishing that the
immobilization, towing, or impoundment of the registered owner's vehicle was
not authorized.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Decision: Based on the hearing record, the chief of police or his
or her designee shall issue a written decision: 1) affirming, in whole or in
part, the validity of the immobilization, towing, or impoundment of the
registered owner's vehicle; or 2) invalidating, in whole or in part, the
immobilization, towing, or impoundment of the registered owner's vehicle. A
copy of the decision shall be delivered to the registered owner of the subject
vehicle within forty eight (48) hours after the close of the postimmobilization
hearing. The decision of the chief of police or his or her designee shall be
final.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Action:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Invalidation: If the decision is to invalidate the
immobilization, towing, or impoundment, the chief of police or his or her
designee shall immediately release the immobilizing restraint if the vehicle
has not yet been towed, or release the vehicle if impounded, and remove its
state registration number from the vehicle immobilization list.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Affirmation: If the decision is to affirm the immobilization,
towing, or impoundment, the registered owner shall be so informed. If the
immobilized vehicle has not yet been towed, the registered owner shall also be
informed that the immobilization fee and all outstanding parking citation fines
and penalties must be paid in full within twenty four (24) hours after receipt
of the decision, and that failure to make such payment may result in the
immediate towing and impoundment of the registered owner's vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â No Determination Of Violations: A postimmobilization hearing
shall not be determinative of, and shall not be used or construed to
adjudicate, any of the individual parking citations on which the
immobilization, towing, or impoundment was based, or any other violation of any
city ordinance relating to the eligible vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Removal From Vehicle Immobilization List: After payment in full of
all applicable fees, fines, and penalties specified in this subsection, the
state registration number of the eligible vehicle shall be removed immediately
from the vehicle immobilization list. (Ord. 2006-O-15, 4-18-2006)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-2-4 of this title.
7-5-19-2: VIOLATION SETTLEMENTS AND FINES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
(other than subsection 7-5-4A2a, A2b or A2e, or section
7-5-17 or
7-5-12 of this chapter for which the out of court settlement is set forth in
subsection E of this section) may make out of court settlement with the city
and avoid legal proceedings in the circuit court of the county by payment of an
out of court settlement in accordance with the schedule set forth in subsection
C of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Payment of out of court settlement may be made by mailing the amount
thereof by check or money order to: Police Department, City Of Highwood, 17
Highwood Avenue, Highwood, Lake County, IL 60040, or by leaving the amount
thereof with the police department. A receipt shall be issued for all money so
received if requested.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The out of court settlement schedule is as follows:
Â 
General parking and city sticker violations $25.00
After 30 days of issue                      50.00
Â 
(Ord. 15-O-6, 2-3-2015)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The notice of violation/parking ticket issued by the officer shall
indicate the amount of out of court settlement set forth in subsection C or E
of this section, as appropriate. (Ord. 93-O-38, 11-16-1993)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
subsection 7-5-4A2a, A2b or A2e, or section
7-5-12 of this chapter may make an out of court settlement by payment of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each offense, if paid within thirty (30) days of such
offense. More than thirty (30) days after the violation, out of court
settlement, pursuant to this subsection E1, may be made by payment in the sum
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord. 96-O-38, 12-3-1996)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of section
7-5-17 of this chapter may make an out of court settlement by payment of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) for each offense, if paid within thirty (30) days of
such offense. More than thirty (30) days after the violation, out of court
settlement, pursuant to this subsection E2, may be made by payment in the sum
of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2007-O-21, 7-
2-2007)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â If a defendant has failed to obtain a court hearing or make an out of
court settlement with respect to any violation of any provision of this
chapter, upon initiation of any legal action by the city against such defendant
for such violation, the out of court settlement provisions of this section
shall not apply to such violation. (Ord. 93-O-38, 11-16-1993)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation that fails to make
an out of court settlement as prescribed in this section and is placed on court
supervision for, found guilty of, or convicted of violating any provision of
this chapter shall be fined not less than the amount of the out of court
settlement set forth in this chapter, nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. The minimum fine hereunder shall be determined by
reference to the date on which a court hearing is requested by the violator,
and the minimum fine hereunder shall be no less than the amount of an out of
court settlement on that date, pursuant to subsection C or E of this section.
If no hearing is requested by the violator and court action is instituted by
the city, the amount of any fine imposed shall be not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) (but $300.00 for violation of section
7-5-17 of this chapter) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. (Ord. 96-O-38, 12-3-1996; amd. Ord. 2007-O-21, 7-2-2007; 2009
Code)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Each period of posted time limit, or if no time limit is posted, each
day that a vehicle is illegally parked or left standing, shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be prosecuted accordingly.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â In addition any penalty or fine levied under this section, any person,
partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of any provision of this
section shall pay any and all reasonable attorney fees incurred by the city in
enforcing this chapter in the event the person fails to pay the out of court
settlement amounts designated herein.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â In the event the city deems it necessary to bring any court action to
enforce this chapter, there shall be assessed against any person, partnership,
firm or corporation violating this chapter all reasonable costs, expenses and
attorney fees incurred by the city in bringing said action, in addition to the
fines provided herein. (Ord. 93-O-38, 11-1-1993)
7-5-19-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF LESSORS OF VEHICLES:
Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and who
leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a violation of
this title or parking regulation of the city involving such vehicle, shall,
upon request, provide a police officer of the city with a written statement of
the name and address of the lessee at the time of such offense and the
identifying number upon the registration plates of such vehicle. (Ord. 93-O-22,
8-3-1993)
7-5-19-4: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the name
of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993)
7-5-19-5: REMOVING PARKING VIOLATION NOTICE:
No person, other than the owner or driver of the vehicle to which a parking
violation notice has been attached, may remove the same from said vehicle.
(Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993)
7-5-19-6: FAILURE TO PAY FINE; SUSPENSION OF DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â State Law May Be Applied: The city may utilize the provisions of state
law, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5(f), or any successor statute or
legislation, to cause the suspension of the driver's license of any person who
fails to pay any portion of a fine or penalty due as a result of a final
judgment of a violation of any provision of this title or of state law
governing the parking, standing or stopping of vehicles within the city. (Ord.
93-O-22, 8-3-1993; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parking Judgment Scofflaw Determined:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When any portion of any fine or penalty so due remains unpaid on ten
(10) or more such violations after more than thirty (30) days after final
judgment, each defendant in such ten (10) or more cases shall be deemed a
"parking judgment scofflaw" pursuant to the provisions of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Where a vehicle is registered in the name of more than one person,
it shall be sufficient if any one such registered owner is a "parking judgment
scofflaw".
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Where a person is a named defendant in ten (10) or more such cases,
the same shall be sufficient, irrespective of how many different vehicles are
involved, or if such person is only one of the named registered owners for any
or all of such vehicles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Where the terms of any such final judgment in any such case provide
for time for the defendant to pay, such case shall not be counted toward the
required ten (10) or more such cases until more than thirty (30) days after the
last or final date specified for such payment by court order.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â In any such case in which an appeal is timely filed and prosecuted,
such case shall not be counted toward the required ten (10) or more such cases
until more than thirty (30) days after final disposition of such appeal by the
Illinois appellate court, the Illinois supreme court, or other court having
proper jurisdiction, as the case may be.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notice Requirements: Prior to making the required certification to the
Illinois secretary of state for driver's license suspension hereunder, notice
shall be given to the parking judgment scofflaw to be so certified. The notice
shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Be mailed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â By certified or registered mail, return receipt requested;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â With a second copy by regular first class mail;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â To the parking judgment scofflaw;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â At his address indicated in the most current registration list of
the Illinois secretary of state;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â More than forty five (45) days prior to such certification to the
Illinois secretary of state; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Be in the form attached to the ordinance codified herein; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Contain information sufficient to apprise the parking judgment
scofflaw that failure to pay fines and penalties owing within forty five (45)
days of the date of the notice will result in the city notifying the Illinois
secretary of state that the person's driver's license is eligible for
suspension pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Hearing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Request For Hearing: Once such certification is made to the Illinois
secretary of state hereunder, the parking judgment scofflaw shall have the
right to request a hearing to challenge the accuracy of such certified report.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The request must be made in writing, and may, but need not be, on
forms furnished by the police department for such purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If such written request is not delivered to and actually received
by the Highwood police department within one hundred eighty (180) days after
such certification, the right to such a hearing under the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed waived.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Scheduling Hearing: Upon proper request, the city shall schedule a
date, time and place for such a hearing as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of such request for a
hearing, except as provided in subsection D2b(2) of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Where the person's driver's license has already been suspended,
the parking judgment scofflaw may request expedited hearing, which shall be
scheduled:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Within forty eight (48) hours after such request for such
hearing, excluding weekends and holidays.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Except, that if such request is made after three o'clock (3:
00) P.M., then a hearing shall be held on the third working day following the
request.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Upon receipt of a proper request for a hearing, but not less than
forty eight (48) hours before such hearing, the city shall notify the parking
judgment scofflaw of the date, time and place for such hearing by telephone, by
mail, or in person as the circumstances require. Upon receipt of a request for
hearing pursuant to section D2b of this section, the city shall, at the
earliest possible time, notify the parking judgment scofflaw of the date, time
and place of such hearing by telephone or in person.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Whenever a hearing is requested pursuant to subsection D1 of this
section, the chief of police or his designee shall serve as hearing officer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing in an informal
manner and shall not be bound by the technical rules of evidence.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The issues to be determined at the hearing shall be limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Whether the person was not an owner, lessee, driver, or other
person in control of the vehicle or vehicles receiving ten (10) or more
parking, standing or stopping violation notices on the date or dates such
notices were issued; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Whether the person has already paid all fines and penalties
for the ten (10) or more violations indicated on the certified report.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The person demanding the hearing shall have the burden of
establishing either of the above grounds for determination of inaccuracy of the
certification to the Illinois secretary of state.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â After reviewing all relevant evidence presented at the hearing,
the hearing officer shall make his determinations based upon a preponderance of
the evidence. The hearing officer shall record this determination and the basis
for such determination in writing and provide the owner with a copy of such
written determination.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The hearing officer shall not determine or adjudicate, and the
hearing will not be determinative of, or adjudicate, any citation issued
relative to any vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The city or the owner may contest the decision of the hearing
officer in any manner provided by law. (Ord. 93-O-22, 8-3-1993)
CHAPTER 6
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Obedience To And Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
7-6-2: Right Of Way
7-6-3: Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks
7-6-4: Walking On Roadways
7-6-5: Soliciting
7-6-6: Bridges And Railroad Crossings
7-6-7: Pedestrians With Disabilities
7-6-1: OBEDIENCE TO AND APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1001 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-6-2: RIGHT OF WAY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Crosswalks: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1002
shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Sidewalks: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1008 shall
apply. (2009 Code)
7-6-3: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1003 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-6-4: WALKING ON ROADWAYS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1007 and 5/11-1010 shall
apply. (2009 Code)
7-6-5: SOLICITING:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1006 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-6-6: BRIDGES AND RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1011 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-6-7: PEDESTRIANS WITH DISABILITIES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1004 shall apply. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-7-1: Safe Vehicles Required
7-7-2: Obstruction Of Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
7-7-3: Windshields Unobstructed; Wipers Required
7-7-4: Lights
7-7-5: Signal Lamps And Devices
7-7-6: Horns And Warning Devices
7-7-7: Brakes
7-7-8: Tires
7-7-9: Noise Control; Mufflers
7-7-10: Safety Glazing Materials
7-7-11: Bumpers
7-7-12: Suspension System
7-7-13: Gas And Smoke Emissions
7-7-14: Projecting Loads To Be Identified
7-7-15: Towed Vehicles
7-7-16: Spilling Loads And Debris
7-7-17: Bicycle Equipment
7-7-1: SAFE VEHICLES REQUIRED:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-101 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-2: OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1406 and 5/12-502 shall
apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-3: WINDSHIELDS UNOBSTRUCTED; WIPERS REQUIRED:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-503 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-4: LIGHTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General requirements: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
12-201 shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Spot lamps and auxiliary driving lamps: Provisions of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/12-207 shall apply.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Additional lighting equipment: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-209 shall apply.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Use of headlamps: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-210
shall apply.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Number of driving lamps required or permitted: Provisions of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-211 shall apply.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Special restrictions on lamps: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-212 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-5: SIGNAL LAMPS AND DEVICES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-208 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-6: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-601 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-7: BRAKES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-301 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-8: TIRES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-401 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-9: NOISE CONTROL; MUFFLERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Noisy vehicles: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-505
shall apply.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Muffler: Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-602 shall
apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-10: SAFETY GLAZING MATERIALS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-501 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-11: BUMPERS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-608 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-12: SUSPENSION SYSTEM:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-607 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-13: GAS AND SMOKE EMISSIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke as to be dangerous or to endanger the operation of other
vehicles on the street. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
7-7-14: PROJECTING LOADS TO BE IDENTIFIED:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-204 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-15: TOWED VEHICLES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-110 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-16: SPILLING LOADS AND DEBRIS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-109 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-7-17: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1507 shall apply. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MOTORCYCLES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Riding On Motorcycles
7-8-2: Special Equipment
7-8-3: Handlebar Restrictions
7-8-1: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1403 shall apply. (2009 Code)
7-8-2: SPECIAL EQUIPMENT:
The operator of a motorcycle and every passenger thereon shall be protected by
glasses, goggles or a transparent shield. (Ord. 75-O-15, 11-21-1975)
7-8-3: HANDLEBAR RESTRICTIONS:
Provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1403, subsection (c) shall
apply. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 9
LOW SPEED VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Speed Limits
7-9-3: Required Equipment
7-9-4: Secretary Of State
7-9-5: Rules Of The Road
7-9-6: Compliance With Illinois Vehicle Code
7-9-7: License Required; Fees
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, "low speed vehicle" means such nonhighway vehicles as
defined by section 1-140.7 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 . (Ord. 2011-O-34,
11-1-2011)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-140.7.
7-9-2: SPEED LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful to operate a low speed vehicle upon any street with a
speed limit over thirty (30) miles per hour. This section does not prohibit a
low speed vehicle from crossing a street in the city at an intersection where
the street being crossed has a posted speed limit of not more than forty five
(45) miles per hour. A low speed vehicle shall not cross a street in the city
with a speed limit in excess of forty five (45) miles per hour unless it is
crossing at an intersection controlled by a traffic light or four-way stop
sign. (Ord. 2011-O-34, 11-1-2011)
7-9-3: REQUIRED EQUIPMENT:
A low speed vehicle may only be operated on a roadway if, at a minimum, it has
the following: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red
reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a headlight that emits a
white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a
taillamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred feet (100')
from the rear, brake lights, and turn signals. When operated on a roadway, the
low speed vehicle shall have its headlight and taillamps lighted as required by
section 12-201 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
12-201, as amended. (Ord. 2011-O-34, 11-1-2011)
7-9-4: SECRETARY OF STATE:
If the Illinois secretary of state issues registration plates for low speed
vehicles, it shall be unlawful to operate or park on any public way a low speed
vehicle that is not fitted with front and rear registration plates. Until such
time as the Illinois secretary of state issues registration plates for such
vehicles, the city is authorized to enforce any law applicable to low speed
vehicles by using a vehicle identification number in lieu of a registration
plate number. (Ord. 2011-O-34, 11-1-2011)
7-9-5: RULES OF THE ROAD:
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a low speed vehicle shall be
subject to all of the requirements of this code and of the Illinois vehicle
code. The low speed vehicle shall be operated in accordance with the state and
local rules of the road applicable to other motor vehicles. No person shall
operate a low speed vehicle on a sidewalk, on footpaths or on any other surface
where motor vehicle operation is otherwise prohibited.
It shall be unlawful to operate or to cause to be operated a low speed vehicle
on the public ways of the city unless such vehicle is covered by a liability
insurance policy as required by section 7-601 of the Illinois vehicle code,
codified at 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-601, as amended. The owner of a
low speed vehicle shall be required to carry the required liability insurance
policy on a low speed vehicle. (Ord. 2011-O-34, 11-1-2011)
7-9-6: COMPLIANCE WITH ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE:
All persons operating a low speed vehicle shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
100 et seq., as amended, including, but not limited to, section 11-1426.2 of
the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.2, as
amended. (Ord. 2011-O-34, 11-1-2011)
7-9-7: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Every owner, operator, or lessee (whether a natural person, firm,
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, or other
artificial person), of any low speed vehicle shall, prior to operating said low
speed vehicle on the streets designated in this chapter, shall pay a license
fee as specified herein for each license period to permit the use of such low
speed vehicle on any designated street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a natural person, firm,
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, or other
artificial person, to fail to obtain a license for any low speed vehicle, or to
use or cause or permit to be used any such low speed vehicle upon any
designated street in the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application: Application shall be made and a city license shall be
purchased and displayed upon each low speed vehicle as required herein within
fourteen (14) days of the acquisition of every such vehicle and not later than
July 1 of each succeeding year. Each license issued hereunder shall expire on
June 30 next succeeding. Application shall be made in the same manner as for
other vehicles in accordance with section
7-2-1 of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fee: The license fee for a low speed vehicle, and the additional late
fee for failure to obtain the required license within the time periods set
forth by this section shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Plates And Stickers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon completion of the application and payment of the license fee,
the city collector shall deliver to the licensee a plate, emblem or sticker as
designated by the city council, and it shall be the duty of the licensee to
permanently affix such plate, emblem or sticker in accordance with the
instructions received therewith in a conspicuous place on a low speed vehicle
where it can be readily seen.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of this section to the contrary,
no low speed vehicle registered to the city and bearing a "municipal" plate
issued by the state of Illinois shall be required to display a sticker or to
obtain a city license as set forth herein. (Ord. 2011-O-34, 11-1-2011)
CHAPTER 10
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
7-10-1: Definitions
7-10-2: Liability
7-10-3: Signage
7-10-4: Processing And Notice Of Automated Traffic Law Violations
7-10-5: Procedures
7-10-6: Confidentiality
7-10-7: Penalty
7-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning is required by the context:
Â 
                                  A device located within the City with one or
                                  more motor vehicle sensors working in
                                  conjunction with the visual signals on a
                                  school bus, as specified in sections 12-803
                                  or 12-805 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, to
                                  produce recorded images of motor vehicles
                                  that fail to stop before meeting or
                                  overtaking, from either direction, any school
                                  bus stopped at any location for the purpose
AUTOMATED LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: of receiving or discharging pupils in
                                  violation of section 11-1414 of the Illinois
                                  Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
                                  5/11-1414. The automated traffic law
                                  enforcement system is designed to obtain a
                                  clear recorded image of a violating motor
                                  vehicle and its license plate. The automated
                                  traffic law enforcement system shall not be
                                  used to record vehicle speeds or to enforce
                                  speed limit regulations.
                                  Images recorded by an automated traffic law
                                  enforcement system, which consist of either
                                  two (2) or more photographs, two (2) or more
                                  microphotographs, two (2) or more electronic
RECORDED IMAGES:                  images or a video recording showing the motor
                                  vehicle, together with at least one clearly
                                  recorded image identifying the vehicle's
                                  license plate. The recorded image shall also
                                  display the time, date and location of the
                                  violation.
                                  The police officer designated by the Police
TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: Chief to review evidence of violations and
                                  approve the issuance of citations for such
                                  violations. (Ord. 20-O-05, 2-18-2020)
Â 
7-10-2: LIABILITY:
The registered owner of a vehicle shall be liable to this section if such
vehicle disregards the visual signals on a school bus in violation of section
5/11-1414 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
1414. (Ord. 20-O-05, 2-18-2020)
7-10-3: SIGNAGE:
A school bus equipped with an automated traffic law enforcement system must be
posted with a sign indicating that the school bus is being monitored by an
automatic traffic law enforcement system. (Ord. 20-O-05, 2-18-2020)
7-10-4: PROCESSING AND NOTICE OF AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW VIOLATIONS:
When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor vehicle
overtaking or passing a school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging pupils in violation of section 11-1414 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, the Traffic Compliance Administrator shall, for each violation recorded,
review and approve a written notice of the violation to the registered owner or
lessee of the vehicle as the alleged violator. Prior to service of a notice of
violation, the associated recorded image shall be reviewed by a technician
employed or contracted by the City, who shall inspect the image and determine
whether the motor vehicle was being operated in violation of section 11-1414 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, and whether one of the defenses enumerated herein is
applicable upon inspection of the recorded image. Upon determination that the
recorded image captures a violation and that no defense applies, the notice of
violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle owner or lessee in the
manner herein provided.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Each notice of an automated traffic law violation shall include the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States Post Office approved database;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The registration number of the motor vehicle involved in the
violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The violations charged;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The location where the violation occurred;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The date and time of the violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A copy of the recorded images;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which the
civil penalty shall be paid if liability for the violation is not going to be
contested;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A statement that the recorded images are evidence of a violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â A warning that failure to either pay the civil penalty or to contest
liability is an admission of liability and may result in a suspension of
driving privileges of the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle in addition
to other specified penalties for failing to appear at the hearing or pay the
fine in advance of the hearing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â A statement that the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle may
elect to proceed either by paying the fine stated in the notice of violation or
by challenging the charge in a hearing.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The notice of violation shall be delivered by first class mail, postage
prepaid, within ninety (90) days after the violation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Each notice of violation shall be evidence of the facts contained in
the notice and shall establish prima facie evidence of a violation, subject to
rebuttal on the basis or the defenses established. (Ord. 20-O-05, 2-18-2020)
7-10-5: PROCEDURES:
The City shall adopt procedures for the processing of violations and the
collection of civil penalties and costs under this section to the extent that
those procedures do not contradict or are otherwise inconsistent with this
section. (Ord. 20-O-05, 2-18-2020)
7-10-6: CONFIDENTIALITY:
Recorded images made by the automatic traffic enforcement system shall be
confidential and shall be made available only to the alleged violator, to
governmental and law enforcement agencies for purposes of adjudicating
automated traffic law violations, or for statistical or other governmental
purposes. Any recorded image evidencing an automated traffic law violation,
however, may be utilized and admissible as evidence in any hearing or other
proceeding resulting from or relating to the violation. (Ord. 20-O-05, 2-18-
2020)
7-10-7: PENALTY:
Unless the driver of the motor vehicle in question received a uniform traffic
citation from a police officer at the time of the alleged automated traffic law
violation, a vehicle owner or lessee who violated this section shall be subject
to a civil penalty as provided in the Annual Fee Resolution for a violation of
this section. An additional penalty as provided in the annual fee resolution
will be imposed if the violator fails to pay the original penalty or to request
a hearing to contest the violation within thirty (30) days of the date of
issuance of the notice of violation. Any penalty imposed for a violation of
this section is a civil penalty and is not a violation of a traffic regulation
governing the movement of motor vehicles and shall not be recorded on the
driving record of the vehicle owner, provided that the City may record the
violation for the purpose of determining if a person is subject to a higher
fine for a second or subsequent offense. (Ord. 20-O-05, 2-18-2020)
CHAPTER 11
UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF BUSES
SECTION:
7-11-1:Â Â Â  Unlawful Operation Of Buses
7-11-1:Â Â Â UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF BUSES:
A.Â Â Â As used in this section, the following definitions shall apply:
BUS: Any type of commercial motor vehicle with a weight of at least 36,000
pounds, which is designed to carry, or is actually carrying, more than ten (10)
individuals and operating as a common carrier.
REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: Bus service that operates trips involving
passengers disembarking in the City on a predictable and recurring basis,
following a schedule that is published in advance and available to the general
public, and provides service in exchange for paying a fare.
UNSCHEDULED BUS STOP: The unloading or disembarking of passengers from a bus
subject to the requirements of chapter
4-23  of this code that is not operating pursuant to and in accordance with an
application approved in accordance with that chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibited Conduct:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Unscheduled Bus Stops: No person, including, but not limited to, the
owner, operator, or driver of any bus shall make an unscheduled bus stop in the
City. This section shall not apply to motor vehicles which are not subject to
chapter
4-23  of this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Operation Of A Bus Without A City License: Except as otherwise
provided by law, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bus on any
street, place or public highway in the City without first having obtained a
specific grant of authority to do so from the City board in the form of an
ordinance designating the routes, terms and conditions under which such bus may
be operated, and regulating such other matters pertaining to bus as is within
the scope of the powers granted to the City.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of, any of the provisions of this section, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. The operation of each bus contrary to the provisions of this section
shall be considered a separate offense for each day that the same is so
operated. (Ord. 24-O-2, 1-2-2024)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose; Scope; Interpretation
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-2-1: Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facilities
8-1-3: Annual Registration Required
8-1-4: Permit Requirements
8-1-5: Insurance; Indemnity; Security
8-1-6: Change Of Ownership, Identity Or Legal Status
8-1-7: General Construction Standards
8-1-8: Traffic Control
8-1-9: Location Of Facilities
8-1-10: Construction Methods And Materials
8-1-11: Vegetation Control
8-1-12: Removal, Relocation Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
8-1-13: Cleanup And Restoration
8-1-14: Maintenance And Repairs
8-1-15: Variances
8-1-16: Penalties
8-1-1: PURPOSE; SCOPE; INTERPRETATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights of way and the city as a whole.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Intent: In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the city
utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or on public
property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the city's residential neighborhoods;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Scope: This chapter applies to all facilities on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way within the jurisdiction of the
city. A facility lawfully established prior to the effective date hereof may
continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently
constructed and located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable
franchise, license or similar agreement.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Franchises, Licenses And Similar Agreements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The city, in its discretion and as limited by law, may require
utilities to enter into a franchise, license or similar agreement for the
privilege of locating their facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across, or within the city rights of way. Utilities that are not required by
law to enter into such an agreement may request that the city enter into such
an agreement. In such an agreement, the city may provide for terms and
conditions inconsistent with this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event that a utility other than a telecommunications provider
has a franchise, license or similar agreement with the city, such franchise,
license or similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such
agreement and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In the event of any conflict with, or inconsistency between, the
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any franchise, license or
similar agreement between the city and any telecommunications provider, the
provisions of such franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and
control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension
thereof.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Conflicting Provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â This chapter supersedes all city rights of way ordinances or parts
of city rights of way ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event that applicable federal or state laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, the utility shall comply with
the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible without
violating federal or state laws or regulations.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Sound Engineering Judgment: The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
thereto in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CITY: The city of Highwood.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear runout area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside Design
Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The city code of the city of Highwood or any ordinance in effect from
time to time regulating activity or construction within the rights of way of
the city of Highwood.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The city director of public works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: Any work that obstructs the right of way or causes a
material adverse effect on the use of the right of way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices, or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of
the soil, and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a
manner that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using, or in the vicinity of, the right of way, or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The city engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the city.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
director of public works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life,
health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products, or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC, pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under a right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by a street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to section
8-1-4 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, and coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If no
time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at the local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. "Right of way or rights of way" shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in this
definition and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and other structures
or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the "right of way".
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for its use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to subsection 8-1-5C
of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radios, paging services and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated, nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the city through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
"sales of telecommunications at retail" as defined in this section.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-201,
subsection (v).
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2007-O-35,
11-6-2007)
8-1-2-1: PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
Â Â Â  ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE: An existing pole or other structure within
the public right of way that can be used to support an antenna and is not a
utility pole or a city owned infrastructure.
Â Â Â APPLICANT: Includes any person or entity submitting an application to
install personal wireless telecommunication facilities within a public right of
way.
Â Â Â CITY OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE: Infrastructure including, but not limited to,
streetlights, traffic signals, towers or buildings owned, operated or
maintained by the city.
Â Â Â DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): A type of personal wireless
telecommunication facility consisting of a network of spatially separated
antenna nodes connected to a common source via a transport medium that provides
wireless service within a geographic area.
Â Â Â LANDSCAPE SCREENING: The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery,
bushes or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from public view.
Â Â Â MONOPOLE: A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower used to
support antennas or related equipment.
Â Â Â PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA: An antenna that is part of a
personal wireless telecommunications facility.
Â Â Â PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT: Equipment, exclusive of an
antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
Â Â Â PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An antenna, equipment, and
related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data, images, or other information including, but not
limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication service, paging, and
wi-fi antenna service.
Â Â Â SMALL CELL ANTENNAS: A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity in a limited defined
area.
Â Â Â TOWER: Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. Except as otherwise provided for by
this section, the requirements for a tower and associated antenna facilities
shall be those required in this chapter and code.
Â Â Â UTILITY POLE: An upright pole used to support electric cables, telephone
cables, telecommunication cables and related facilities owned and maintained by
a public utility company as defined by the Illinois commerce commission.
Â Â Â VARIATION: A grant of relief by the director of public works from specific
limitations of this section.
Â Â Â WI-FI ANTENNA: An antenna used to support wi-fi broadband internet access
service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Regulations And Standards: Personal wireless telecommunication
facilities shall be permitted to be placed in rights of way as attachments to
existing utility poles, alternative antenna structures, or city owned
infrastructure subject to the following regulations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Number Limitation: Not more than one personal wireless
telecommunication facility may be located on a single utility pole.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Separation And Setback Requirements: Personal wireless
telecommunication facilities may be attached to a utility pole, alternative
antenna structure or city owned infrastructure only where such pole, structure
or infrastructure is located no closer than one hundred feet (100') to any
residential building and no closer than five hundred feet (500') from any other
personal wireless telecommunication facility. A lesser setback may be allowed
by the city council as a variance to this section when the applicant
establishes that the lesser setback is necessary to close a significant gap in
the applicant's services or to otherwise provide adequate services to
customers, and the proposed antenna or facility is the least intrusive means to
do so.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Collocation: Unless otherwise authorized by the director of public
works as a variance for good cause shown, only one personal wireless
telecommunications facility shall be allowed on each utility pole, alternative
antenna structure, or single unit of city owned infrastructure for the use of a
single personal wireless telecommunications facility operator. This subsection
does not preclude or prohibit collocation of personal wireless
telecommunication facilities on towers that meet the requirements as set forth
elsewhere in this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â City Owned Infrastructure: Personal wireless telecommunication
facilities shall only be mounted to city owned infrastructure including, but
not limited to, streetlights, traffic signal, towers or buildings, if
authorized by a license agreement between the owner and the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â New Towers: No new monopole or other tower to support personal
wireless telecommunication facilities shall be installed on rights of way
within the corporate limits of the city unless specifically authorized by the
city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Attachment Limitations: No personal wireless telecommunication
antenna or facility shall be attached to a utility pole, alternative antenna
structure, or city owned infrastructure unless all of the following conditions
are satisfied:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Surface Area Of Antenna: The personal wireless telecommunication
antenna, including antenna panels, whip antennas or dish shaped antennas, shall
not have a surface area of more than seven (7) square feet and no single
dimension exceeding seven feet (7'). Omnidirectional or whip antennas may not
extend more than seven feet (7'), not including any pole extension.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Size Of Aboveground Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facility:
The total combined volume of all aboveground equipment and appurtenances
comprising a personal wireless telecommunication facility, exclusive of the
antenna itself, cannot exceed fifteen (15) cubic feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Personal Wireless Telecommunication Equipment: The operator of a
personal wireless telecommunication facility shall, whenever possible, locate
the base of the equipment or appurtenances at a height of no lower than eight
feet (8') above grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Personal Wireless Telecommunication Services Equipment Mounted At
Grade: In the event that the operator of a personal wireless telecommunication
facility proposes to install a facility where equipment or appurtenances are to
be installed at grade, screening shall be installed to minimize the visibility
of the facility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Height: A personal wireless telecommunication antenna shall not
exceed more than thirty five feet (35') above ground level. The top of the
highest point of the antenna may not extend more than seven feet (7') above the
highest point of the utility pole, alternative antenna support structure, or
city owned infrastructure and the combination of the height of the pole,
support structure or infrastructure and the antenna extension shall not exceed
thirty five feet (35').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Color: A personal wireless telecommunication facility, including
all related equipment and appurtenances, shall be a color that blends with the
surroundings of the pole, structure or infrastructure on which it is mounted
and use nonreflective materials which blend with the materials and colors of
the surrounding area and structures. Any wiring must be covered with an
appropriate cover or cable shield.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Antenna Panel Covering: A personal wireless telecommunication
antenna shall include a radome, cap or other antenna panel covering or shield
and shall be of a color that blends with the color of the pole on which it is
mounted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Wiring And Cabling: Wires and cables connecting the antenna to
the remainder of the facility shall be installed in accordance with the version
of the national electrical code and national electrical safety code adopted by
the city and in force at the time of the installation of the facility. In no
event shall wiring and cabling serving the facility interfere with any wiring
or cabling installed by a cable television or video service operator, electric
utility or telephone utility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Grounding: The personal wireless telecommunication facility shall
be grounded in accordance with the requirements of the most current edition of
the national electrical code adopted by the city and in force at the time of
the installation of the facility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Guywires: No guy or other support wires shall be used in
connection with a personal wireless telecommunication facility unless the
facility is proposed to be attached to an existing utility pole, alternative
antenna support structure or city owned infrastructure that incorporated
guywires prior to the date that an applicant has applied for a permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Pole Extensions: Extensions to utility poles, alternative support
structures and city owned infrastructure utilized for the purpose of connecting
a personal wireless telecommunications antenna and its related personal
wireless telecommunications equipment shall be fabricated from material similar
to the support pole, and shall have a degree of strength capable of supporting
the antenna and any related appurtenances and cabling and capable of
withstanding wind forces and ice loads in accordance with the structural
integrity standards set forth in subsection B6l of this section. An extension
shall be securely bound to the support pole, alternative antenna structure or
city owned infrastructure in accordance with applicable engineering standards
for the design and attachment of such extensions. No extensions fabricated from
wood shall be permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â l.Â Â Â Structural Integrity: The personal wireless telecommunication
facility, including the antenna, pole extension and all related equipment shall
be designed to withstand a wind force of at least ninety (90) miles per hour,
and be designed to withstand a wind force of at least forty (40) miles per hour
which includes at least three- fourths (3/4) of an inch of ice all without the
use of guywires. For any facility attached to city owned infrastructure or, in
the discretion of the city, for a utility pole or alternative antenna
structure, the operator of the facility shall provide the city with a
structural evaluation of each specific location containing a recommendation
that the proposed installation passes the standards described above. The
evaluation shall be prepared by a professional structural engineer licensed in
the state of Illinois.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Signage: Other than signs required by federal law or regulations, a
personal wireless telecommunication facility shall not have signs installed
thereon.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Screening: If screening is required under subsection B6 of this
section, it shall be natural landscaping material or a fence subject to the
approval of the city and shall comply with all regulations of the city. In lieu
of the operator installing the screening, the city, at its sole discretion, may
accept from the operator of the facility a fee of one thousand five hundred
dollars ($1,500.00) for the acquisition and installation of landscaping
material by the city. Appropriate landscaping shall be located and maintained
and shall provide the maximum achievable screening, as determined by the city,
from view from adjoining properties and public or private streets.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such screening is required to extend more
than nine feet (9') in height. Landscape screening when permitted in the right
of way, shall be provided with a clearance of three feet (3') in all directions
from the facility. The color of housing for ground mounted equipment shall
blend with the surroundings. For a roof mounted facility, the maximum
reasonably achievable screening shall be provided between such facility and the
view from adjoining properties and public or private streets.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Permission To Use Utility Pole Or Alternative Antenna Structure: The
operator of a personal wireless telecommunication facility shall submit to the
city copies of the approval from the owner of a utility pole, or an alternative
antenna structure, to mount the personal wireless telecommunication facility on
that specific pole, or structure, prior to commencement of the installation.
The utility company's approval shall also indicate that the occupation of the
pole by the personal wireless telecommunication equipment will not limit the
utility company's, or any other public utility currently utilizing the pole,
ability to expand their facilities on the pole in the future. Approval by the
utility company to allow the installation of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility shall also include a guarantee by the utility
company that the utility company will either cause the removal of abandoned
equipment in accordance with subsection B12 of this section or remove the
equipment themselves.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Licenses And Permits: The operator of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility shall submit to the city copies of all licenses and
permits required by other agencies and governments with jurisdiction over the
design, construction, location and operation of said facility and shall
maintain such licenses and permits and provide evidence of renewal or extension
thereof when granted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Variance Requirements: Each location of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility within a right of way shall meet all of the
requirements of this section. Variances may be requested pursuant to the
procedure and standards set forth in section
8-1-15 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Abandonment And Removal: Any personal wireless telecommunication
facility located within the corporate limits of the city that is not operated
for a continuous period of twelve (12) months, shall be considered abandoned
and the owner of the facility shall remove same within ninety (90) days of
receipt of written notice from the city notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Such notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to such owner at the last known address of such
owner. In the case of personal wireless telecommunication facilities attached
to city owned infrastructure, if such facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such
facility through the terms of the applicable license agreement or through
whatever actions are provided by law for removal and cost recovery.
Additionally, where existing aerial utilities within a city right of way are
underground, the operator of a personal wireless telecommunication facility
shall, at its own cost, either underground its facilities or shall move its
facilities to another location, pursuant to a newly issued city permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Governmental Wireless Telecommunication Facilities: This section
shall not apply to personal wireless telecommunication facilities owned by the
city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Permits And Application Fees: Permits for placement of personal
wireless telecommunication facilities are required. Except as otherwise
provided for by this section, the procedures for the application for, approval
of and revocation of such a permit shall be those required in section
8-1-4 of this chapter. Any applications shall demonstrate compliance with the
requirements of this section. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license,
or similar agreement, or federal, state or local law, all applications for
permits pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount
established in section
8-1-4 of this chapter. The application fee is to reimburse the city for
regulatory and administrative costs with respect to the work being performed,
which costs the city represents have been or will be incurred, and is not
deemed to be compensation for the use of the rights of way as herein defined.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Conflict Of Laws: Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of
this section regarding the siting and installation of personal wireless
telecommunication facilities are more restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed elsewhere in this chapter, code or in any other local law, ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation, the regulations of this section shall govern.
(Ord. 16-O-06, 1-19-2016)
8-1-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies a right of way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the engineer (director of public works), providing
the utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy
numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the
utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in
the right of way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such
person, and evidence of insurance as required in subsection 8-1-5A of this
chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required; Exemptions: No person shall "construct" (as defined in
section
8-1-2 of this chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across, or within any city right of way which: 1) changes the location of the
facility; 2) adds a new facility; 3) disrupts the "right of way" (as defined in
section
8-1-2 of this chapter); or 4) materially increases the amount of area or space
occupied by the facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the
right of way without first filing an application with the city engineer
(director of public works) and obtaining a permit from the city therefor,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customers' premises
where there will be no disruption of the right of way.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For Permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be filed
on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in such number of duplicate
copies as the city may designate. The applicant may designate those portions of
its application materials that it reasonably believes contain proprietary or
confidential information as "proprietary" or "confidential" by clearly marking
each page of such materials accordingly.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The application shall be made by the utility or its duly authorized
representative and shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy
numbers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and interest in the work;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-
mail addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant
with respect to the application;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature
of potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Evidence of insurance as required in subsection 8-1-5A of this
chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in
subsection 8-1-5C of this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
8-1-15 of this chapter); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In addition to the requirements of subsection B2 of this section,
the permit application shall include the following items, as applicable to the
specific utility that is the subject of the permit application:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land
and water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, Division of Water Pollution Control and the metropolitan water
reclamation district (other local or State entities with jurisdiction), have
been satisfied; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Throughout the entire permit application review period and the
construction period authorized by the permit, any amendments to information
contained in a permit application shall be submitted by the utility in writing
to the City within thirty (30) days after the change necessitating the
amendment. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fees; Exemption: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee or fees in the amounts established in section
3-2A-1 of this Code including a street opening fee for any non-exempt entities.
No application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the Municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Law 1 . (Ord. 19-O-11, 7-16-2019)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Action On Applications:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Review Of Applications; Grant Or Denial Of Permit: Completed permit
applications, containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the
Director of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Director of Public Works shall reject
such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the Director of
Public Works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the Director of Public Works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works, that the
construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Additional Review Of Telecommunications Retailers' Applications:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the City
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the City not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The director of
public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â In the event that the director of public works fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within
either: 1) ten (10) days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction; or 2) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to subsection A of this section, the
telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city an application for a
permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facility to be constructed. Such application shall be subject to
the requirements of subsection D1 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Additional Review Of Holders Of State Authorization Under The Cable
And Video Competition Law: Applications by a utility that is a holder of a
state issued authorization under the cable and video competition law of 2007
shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days after submission to the city,
unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided the holder has complied with
applicable city codes, ordinances, and regulations.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Effect Of Permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only
certain activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights of way, and
does not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge
upon the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a period
longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No construction shall begin pursuant to a permit issued under this
chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and all major contractors and
subcontractors who will perform any work under the permit at a preconstruction
meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held at a date, time and place
designated by the city with such city representatives in attendance as the city
deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work
under the permit and reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas
where work will occur, including, without limitation, presence or absence of
other utility facilities in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid
disruption of other utilities, use of rights of way by the public during
construction, and access and egress by adjacent property owners.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The issuance of a permit by the city does not excuse the permittee
from complying with other requirements of the city and applicable statutes,
laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Revised Permit Drawings: In the event that the actual locations of any
facilities deviate in any material respect from the locations identified in the
plans, drawings and specifications submitted with the permit application, the
permittee shall submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within
ninety (90) days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised
drawings or plans shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual
facilities deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation
from the permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall
be treated as a request for variance in accordance with section
8-1-15 of this chapter. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Grounds: The city may revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to
this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Noncompliance with this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or
welfare; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notice Requirements: The city shall send written notice of its
intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter stating
the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the alternatives
available to permittee under this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Options Of Permittee:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights
of way to the satisfaction of the city, providing written proof of such removal
to the city within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the
time periods provided in this subsection G3.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of
revocation or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection G1
of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Failure Or Refusal Of Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails to
comply with the provisions of subsection G3 of this section, the city or its
designee may, at the option of the city: a) correct the deficiencies; b) upon
not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or c) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to
the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and the
property of the city. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city
for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 645/5-1 et seq.
8-1-5: INSURANCE; INDEMNITY; SECURITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Insurance Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Coverages And Limits:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right of way or constructing any facility in
the right of way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the city and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in subsections A1a(1) and A1a(2) of this
section:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (C)Â Â Â Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types
of liability;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
personal injury and property damage for each accident;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this
subsection may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies.
Any excess or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying
insurance on a following form basis such that when any loss covered by the
primary policy exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or
umbrella policy becomes effective to cover such loss.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this subsection to the city within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the city. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-
2007)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The insurance policies required by this subsection shall contain
the following endorsement:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be
canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after
receipt by the City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the City Manager of such intent to
cancel or not to renew.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Within ten (10) days after receipt by the city of said notice,
and in no event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the
utility shall obtain and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance
policies meeting the requirements of this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A1 of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A1 of this section, or the requirements of
subsections A2, A3 and A4 of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure
shall provide to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial
ability to self- insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required
under subsection A1 of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a
"private self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act 1 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this subsection shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this
subsection shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by
insurers legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of
Illinois. (All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-
" or better and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Indemnification: By occupying or constructing facilities in the rights
of way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
city and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from, or alleged
to arise out of or result from, the negligent, careless or wrongful acts,
omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates,
officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction
of facilities or occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering
service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized,
allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar
agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations
hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages,
losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct
or breach of this chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees,
agents or representatives.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Security:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this subsection. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this subsection at the permittee's
sole cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the
permit. The security fund shall serve as security for:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The payment by the permittee of all liens and all damages,
claims, costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee in violation of this chapter
including, without limitation, any damage to public property or restoration
work the permittee is required by this chapter to perform that the city must
perform itself or have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's
failure to perform or complete, and all other payments due the city from the
permittee pursuant to this chapter or any other applicable law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant
to this subsection C2 shall, at a minimum:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection
by the city of any amounts covered thereby; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient
to provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the director of public works, and may also include
reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be
incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the director of
public works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C3 for any single phase.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Withdrawals: The city, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice, clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise
withdrawal rights under this subsection C4, may withdraw an amount from the
security fund; provided, that the permittee has not reimbursed the city for
such amount within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made
if the permittee:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due
and unpaid;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund,
the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C3 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest
accrued on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the
city, upon written request for said withdrawal to the city; provided, that any
such withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance
required in subsection C3 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation; provided,
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-
2007)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.
8-1-6: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the city no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
rights of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the
utility or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed
by the former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the rights of way.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city rights of
way.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2007-O-35,
11-6-2007)
8-1-7: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Standards And Principles: All construction in the rights of way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â "Highway Design Manual";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â "Highway Standards Manual";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Illinois
administrative code section 545);
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â "Flagger's Handbook"; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interpretation Of Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy exists
between or among differing principles and standards required by this chapter,
the director of public works shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply, and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the director of public works shall state which standard or
principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a
facility in the future. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Minimum Requirements: The city's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notice When Access Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
8-1-14 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compliance Required: The utility shall take immediate action to correct
any deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-9: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interference With City Facilities Prohibited: No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the director of public works determines that
the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
city utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the city utility facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with, the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Interference With Travel Prohibited: No utility facility shall be
placed in any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of
way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from the pavement
edge as practicable with a minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside
the outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in an existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line, and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Facilities Crossing Highways:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90Â°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC rules
entitled "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83 Illinois
administrative code 305);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Markers: The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Location Within Particular Rights Of Way: The city may require that
facilities be located within particular rights of way that are not highways,
rather than within particular highways.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Freestanding Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Aboveground Facilities: Aboveground facilities may be installed only
if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable. The installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk, and such installations are not
permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A utility shall include, in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure, supporting data demonstrating
the impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The proposed method of attachment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Appearance Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2007-
O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-10: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Boring Or Jacking:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the city
engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation. (Ord. 2007-
O-35, 11-6-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accordance with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the director of public works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Backfilling:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used. (Ord. 2007-
O-35, 11-6-2007)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement
and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and properly
compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
8-1-15 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the engineer. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â All saw cuts shall be full depth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Encasement:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair;
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
Â 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communications, cable or video service   18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by the city)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water lines                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
lines                                    protection
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code, part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communications lines" and the
national electrical safety code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction, and where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Underground Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided,
that special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
"snow drops", shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather
permitting, unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting,
utilities shall bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10)
business days after placement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of pipeline
safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 - transportation of
natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards (49 CFR
section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois". (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the engineer. With the approval of the engineer,
shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of a vegetation
free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be painted a
neutral color to blend with the surroundings. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007; amd.
2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Materials:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the right of
way without the prior written approval of the director of public works. When
such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be obtained from
the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities. (Ord. 2007-O-35,
11-6-2007)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Operational Restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the city, shall be required to be discontinued when such operations would
create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such
operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when
conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to the
right of way or other property. These restrictions may be waived by the
engineer when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The hours of construction shall be as set out in separate ordinance
of the city council, or if no applicable ordinance is in effect, as ordered by
the city manager. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct facilities in
the city shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and location of
existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights of way to be
occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit records
available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible facilities. When
notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by JULIE, a utility
shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities within forty eight
(48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the Illinois
underground facilities damage prevention act, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
50/1 et seq. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-11: VEGETATION CONTROL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations and, additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Other Utilities; Tree Trimming:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Tree trimming that is done by any other utility with facilities
in the right of way and that is not performed pursuant to applicable Illinois
laws and regulations specifically governing same shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required under this
chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Applications for tree trimming permits shall include assurance
that the work will be accomplished by competent workers, with supervision, who
are experienced in accepted tree pruning practices. Tree trimming permits shall
designate an expiration date in the interest of assuring that the work will be
expeditiously accomplished.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Chemical Use:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Except as provided in subsection D2 of this section, no utility
shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or
vegetation in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director of public works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
8-1-12: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon, the
rights of way.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the city, any
utility that owns, controls, or maintains any unauthorized facility or related
appurtenances within the rights of way shall, at its own expense, remove all or
any part of such facilities or appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility
is unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The city retains the right and privilege to cut or move any facilities
located within the rights of way of the city, as the city may determine to be
necessary, appropriate or useful, in response to any public health or safety
emergency. If circumstances permit, the city shall attempt to notify the
utility, if known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the
utility, if known, after cutting or removing a facility.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Upon abandonment of a facility within the rights of way of the city,
the utility shall notify the city within ninety (90) days. Following receipt of
such notice, the city may direct the utility to remove all or any portion of
the facility if the director of public works determines that such removal will
be in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event
that the city does not direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove
it, by giving notice of abandonment to the city, the abandoning utility shall
be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the
facility by another utility or person. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-13: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the right of way
is disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the director of public works. Such cleanup
and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding,
resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
director of public works for good cause shown. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-14: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Maintenance Requirements: Facilities on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the
utility in a manner satisfactory to the city and at the utility's expense.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
director of public works or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the city police shall be notified immediately.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Emergency Repairs: The utility must file with the city, in writing, a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-15: VARIANCES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the director of
public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Authority To Grant Variances: The director of public works shall decide
on an individual basis whether a variance is authorized for each provision of
this chapter identified in the variance request.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The director of public works may authorize a variance only if the
utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities
that would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â As a condition for authorizing a variance, the director of public
works may require the utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable
standards and conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this
chapter but which carry out the purposes of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Appeals: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including denial of a variance, made by the director of public
works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the city council, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the city clerk within
thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The city council shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven (7)
days after the filing of the appeal. The city council shall timely decide the
appeal. (Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
8-1-16: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in
accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. There may be times when the city will incur delay or other
costs, including third party claims, because the utility will not or cannot
perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility shows
that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action is
appropriate, the utility shall bear the city costs of damages and its costs of
installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the facility that
is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or commission may
review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions
may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs apportioned thereto.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional
or further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-O-35, 11-6-2007)
CHAPTER 2
TEMPORARY EASEMENTS AND REVOCABLE LICENSES FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Authority Of Mayor
8-2-2: Notice Requirements; Revocation Of Easement Or License
8-2-1: AUTHORITY OF MAYOR:
The mayor is authorized to enter into:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Temporary easement agreements which, by their term, do not exceed sixty
(60) days, or are revocable upon sixty (60) days' notice.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Temporary easements necessary or convenient for construction or
implementation of public improvements.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â License agreements permitting access or use of real estate or interest
therein which are revocable by their terms on notice of thirty (30) days or
less. (Ord. 99-O-36, 5-18-1999)
8-2-2: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; REVOCATION OF EASEMENT OR LICENSE:
The mayor shall notify the city council of the granting of any such easement,
construction easement or license within fourteen (14) days of the granting
thereof, and notwithstanding any other provision of said easement, construction
easement or license, same shall be revocable by its terms, pursuant to action
of the city council. (Ord. 99-O-36, 5-18-1999)
CHAPTER 3
SIDEWALK SNOW REMOVAL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Sidewalk Snow Removal Required
8-3-2: Width Of Space
8-3-3: Deposit Of Snow Or Ice Upon Streets
8-3-1: SIDEWALK SNOW REMOVAL REQUIRED:
Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person having charge or control
of any premises shall, whenever there is a fall of snow, within twenty four
(24) hours after the snowfall has ended, clear the sidewalks adjoining or
abutting such premises, from snow and ice, and keep the same conveniently free
therefrom. In the case where the snow and ice are so congealed as to not be
removed without difficulty or injury to the pavement of the sidewalk, spread
the same with sand, sawdust, salt or other substance manufactured for the
purpose of melting snow and ice. (Ord. 17-O-4, 1-17-2017)
8-3-2: WIDTH OF SPACE:
If the sidewalk is of greater width than four feet (4'), it shall not be
necessary for such person to remove snow and ice from the same for a space
wider than four feet (4'). (Ord. 17-O-4, 1-17-2017)
8-3-3: DEPOSIT OF SNOW OR ICE UPON STREETS:
No person, firm, corporation or institution, whether public or private, shall
plow or remove or cause to be plowed or removed any ice or snow from any
property and deposit such ice or snow upon any street, road or highway or along
the shoulder or edge of any street, road or highway, within the city of
Highwood. (Ord. 17-O-4, 1-17-2017)
CHAPTER 4
STREETLIGHT BANNERS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Policy Adopted; Compliance Required
8-4-2: Banners Permitted
8-4-3: Application Required
8-4-4: Approval Procedure; Conditions
8-4-5: Fee
8-4-6: Installation Of Banners
8-4-7: Number And Location Of Banners
8-4-8: Exemptions
8-4-9: Revocation Of Approval; Removal Of Banners
8-4-1: POLICY ADOPTED; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The streetlight banner policy of this chapter is hereby adopted by the city.
All individuals or organizations seeking to display such banners shall comply
with the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-O-65, 11-18-2003)
8-4-2: BANNERS PERMITTED:
An application for permission to display streetlight banners will be considered
by the city council only for either:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An event sponsored by a qualified not for profit entity or an
educational or governmental institution. Not for profit entities must provide
evidence that they are qualified with the internal revenue service under code
section 501(c)3.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Promotion of noncommercial special events or significant anniversaries.
(Ord. 2003-O-65, 11-18-2003)
8-4-3: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The applicant shall complete a streetlight banner application form and
submit it to the city at least seventy five (75) days prior to the desired date
of installation of the banners. The completed streetlight banner application
form shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Indicate the specific time period that the streetlight banners will
be displayed. Approved streetlight banners will not be permitted to be
displayed for a period longer than thirty (30) days unless specifically
authorized by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Include color renderings acceptable to the city of the proposed
streetlight banners.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application forms shall be provided to applicants by the office of the
city clerk in order to ensure compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2003-O-65,
11-18-2003)
8-4-4: APPROVAL PROCEDURE; CONDITIONS:
The city must approve all applications for streetlight banners. Therefore:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicants may be required to appear before the city council
approximately sixty (60) days prior to the desired date of the installation of
the proposed streetlight banners.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Streetlight banners should not be manufactured prior to design approval
by the city. Banners must measure eighteen inches (18") in width by thirty
seven and one-half inches (37.5") in height and must be of a material
acceptable to the city. (Ord. 2003-O-65, 11-18-2003)
8-4-5: FEE:
A fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code shall be paid upon approval of the application. This fee
covers the installation and removal of the streetlight banners and maintenance
of the pole brackets. This fee may be waived at the consent of the mayor and
city council. (Ord. 2003-O-65, 11-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
8-4-6: INSTALLATION OF BANNERS:
The city public works department will install all approved streetlight banners.
No exceptions will be granted. (Ord. 2003-O-65, 11-18-2003)
8-4-7: NUMBER AND LOCATION OF BANNERS:
The city reserves the right to decide how many streetlights may be used for
each approved application. Up to two (2) streetlight banners may be installed
on each streetlight. Banners will be allowed only along Highwood Avenue,
Waukegan Avenue, Sheridan Road and the downtown Highwood metra train station
parking lot. (Ord. 2003-O-65, 11-18-2003)
8-4-8: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to any banners installed and maintained by the
city. (Ord. 2003-O-65, 11-18-2003)
8-4-9: REVOCATION OF APPROVAL; REMOVAL OF BANNERS:
Any violation of this chapter shall be cause for immediate revocation of any
approval granted to display streetlight banners and shall result in their
immediate removal. (Ord. 2003-O-65, 11-18-2003)
CHAPTER 5
PARK USE REQUIREMENTS, REGULATIONS, AND GUIDELINES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Administration And Enforcement Authority
8-5-2: Rules And Regulations Applicable
8-5-3: Hours
8-5-4: Park Permit Required
8-5-5: Park Permit Application
8-5-6: Issuance Of Park Permit
8-5-7: Permit Fees
8-5-8: Park Permit; Denial
8-5-9: Revocation Of Permit
8-5-10: Supervision/Security
8-5-11: Rules And Regulations
8-5-12: Violation; Penalty
8-5-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The park area shall not be subject to the jurisdiction of the recreation board,
except to the extent specifically so designated by the city council. Rather,
the use and regulations of such park shall be pursuant to the order and
direction of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS APPLICABLE:
All rules and regulations governing the conduct of persons and operation of the
public parks either contained within or authorized by the ordinances of the
city are applicable to all public parks within the limits of the city of
Highwood, referred to as parks, public parks, or city parks, whether or not
enumerated within the following list:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Evert's Park.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fiore Park.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Memorial Park.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â 50 Pleasant Park. (Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-3: HOURS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Hours Closed: Except for authorized city personnel, it shall be
unlawful for any person to be in or remain in any public city park, except the
recreation center, from dusk to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day,
except as to such activities for which permits are issued. Any person who shall
violate this section shall be guilty of criminal trespass to land as set forth
in section
6-5A-8 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Exception To Closing Hours: The hours, as provided in this chapter,
shall not be applicable in cases where a city park program, sporting event,
sporting tournament, special events, activity or picnic is scheduled and
extends beyond the closing hours, which was either sponsored by the city or for
which a permit was obtained, in which case a participant therein may remain for
the duration of such program, activity or event. (Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-4: PARK PERMIT REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A permit shall be obtained from the city manager's office by any group
wishing to reserve any city park or any portion thereof for any sporting event,
sporting tournament, special event, activity or picnic exceeding twenty (20)
people.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to any group to utilize any city park for any
sporting event, sporting tournament, special event, activity or picnic without
said permit.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In such event the persons attending any sporting event, sporting
tournament, special events, activity or picnic shall be permitted to use the
park consistent with applicable rules and only during the time designated in
the permit. (Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-5: PARK PERMIT APPLICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A permit shall only issue upon proper application as prescribed by the
city manager's office. That application shall include, but shall not be limited
to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The name and address of applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The name and address of the person, persons, corporation or
association sponsoring the activity, if applicable;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The date and hours for which such permit is desired;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The location desired;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â An estimate of anticipated attendance;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Such other information the city manager's office reasonably
requires. (Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-6: ISSUANCE OF PARK PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city's manager, or his designee, shall review the park permit
application and shall approve and issue the permit if the city manager, or his
designee, determines:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The proposed activity or use of the park will not unreasonably
interfere with or detract from the general public's enjoyment of the park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere with
or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The proposed activity and use is not reasonably anticipated to
incite violence, crime or disorderly conduct.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The proposed activity will not entail unusual, extraordinary, or
burdensome expense or police operation by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The facilities desired have not been reserved for other use at the
day and hour requested on the park permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The anticipated attendance does not exceed one hundred (100) persons
in which case permission from the city manager shall be required. (Ord. 2009-O-
43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-7: PERMIT FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Resident fees: As determined by the city manager's office.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nonresident fees: As determined by the city manager's office.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nonprofit organizations/government fees: Fee waived.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Corporation fees: As determined by the city manager's office. (Ord.
2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-8: PARK PERMIT; DENIAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Within seven (7) days after receipt of a park permit application, the
city manager, or his designee, shall either approve or deny, in writing, the
application. The reasons for such denial shall be conveyed in writing to the
applicant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A denial of an application for a park permit may be appealed, in
writing, to the mayor's office. The mayor, or his designee, shall either grant
or deny the appeal in writing within seven (7) days of receiving the appeal.
(Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
A park permit may be revoked at any time by the city manager and/or chief of
police or their designees, for violation of any law or rules applicable to park
activities. (Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-10: SUPERVISION/SECURITY:
The city shall not provide any supervision or security for noncity sponsored
events. It will be the responsibility of the applicant/sponsor of the event to
provide any supervision/security that is reasonably expected to be needed for
the applied event. (Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
8-5-11: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The following rules and regulations shall apply to every person in and
upon the public parks of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the following
rules and regulations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall bring into, possess or consume in a public park any
alcoholic beverages.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No person shall bring into or possess any glass product upon the
premises of any public park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No person shall allow the entry of a dog or cat, or other domestic
animal into any portion of a public park, unless that animal is leashed and
controlled by an individual.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No person shall allow the entry of an agricultural or wild animal
into any portion of a public park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â No person shall camp or use any structures or vehicles for camping
purposes upon any portion of any public park, without obtaining a valid permit
issued from the city manager's office.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â No person shall wilfully mark, deface, disfigure, dig, injure,
displace or remove any building, structure, equipment, property, natural
resource or wildlife.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â No person shall drive or park any vehicle, as defined by the
Illinois vehicle code 1 , on any area within a public park except upon paved
roads or parking area specifically designated for such purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â No person shall erect any structure, tent or shelter of any kind
without obtaining a valid permit issued from the city manager's office.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â No person shall gamble or participate in a game of chance upon the
premises of any public park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â No person shall hunt or trap wildlife at any time upon the premises
of any public park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â No person shall build, maintain, or start a fire of any kind upon
the premises of a city park. This includes, but is not limited to, a campfire,
barbecue, stove, oven, gas flame, or any other open flame of any kind.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â No person shall bring into or possess any weapons as defined by the
Illinois criminal code of 1961 2  or any fireworks or explosives as defined by
the pyrotechnic use act 3  upon the premises of any public park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â No person shall pollute the air or water nor shall any person
litter in any public park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Every person must place all refuse and garbage in designated waste
receptacles. If no such waste receptacles are readily available, such refuse
and garbage shall be removed from the park and properly disposed of.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â No person shall, without a permit and/or license, offer for sale
any article or thing, nor shall any person solicit contributions for any
purpose upon the premises of any public park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â No person shall use, install, or erect any radios, tape machines,
CD/MP3 players, and amplification system in any public park without obtaining a
valid permit issued from the city manager's office.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17.Â Â Â No person shall act in such a manner as to interfere with another
person or persons' proper use of any park or recreational facility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 18.Â Â Â No person shall engage in any activity prohibited by any federal,
state or city of Highwood ordinance in any portion of any public park. (Ord.
2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
2 1. 720 ILCS 5/24 et seq.
3 2. 425 ILCS 35/0.01 et seq.
8-5-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be assessed a fine as
set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-O-43, 11-17-2009)
CHAPTER 6
CITY HALL
SECTION:
8-6-1: Food And Beverages Restricted
8-6-2: Animals Restricted
8-6-3: Penalty
8-6-1: FOOD AND BEVERAGES RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to consume any food or beverages
within the city hall building located at 17 Highwood Avenue, Highwood,
Illinois, or upon the public grounds surrounding the city hall building, except
when authorized by the city council for municipal functions or for municipal
officials and employees. (Ord. 73-O-3, 6-15-1973)
8-6-2: ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
Except as provided in the guide dog access act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
630/1, no person or persons shall enter the city hall building with any dog or
other animal, or allow or permit any dog or other animal to enter upon the
public grounds surrounding the city hall building. (Ord. 73-O-3, 6-15-1973;
amd. 2009 Code)
8-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-7-1: Established
8-7-2: Board Of Directors
8-7-1: ESTABLISHED:
In accordance with 75 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/2-1, the city public library
is established and is maintained for the benefit of the inhabitants of the
city. (Ord. 1975-O-10, 7-1-1975; amd. 2009 Code)
8-7-2: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The mayor, with the approval of the city council, shall appoint a board of
library directors consisting of nine (9) directors chosen from city residents
with reference to their fitness for such office. The board of library directors
shall carry out the spirit and intent of this chapter in establishing and
maintaining in the city a public library and shall have all the powers and
duties as by law made and provided. (Ord. 1975-O-10, 7-1-1975)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definition
8-8-2: Interpretation
8-8-3: Permit Required
8-8-4: Application For Permit; Fees
8-8-5: Review Of Application; Modifications; Approval Or Denial Of Permit;
Appeals
8-8-6: Indemnity And Insurance
8-8-7: Costs Of Event
8-8-8: Utility Service
8-8-9: Public Safety
8-8-10: Compliance With Other Laws
8-8-11: Waivers
8-8-12: Revocation Of Permit
8-8-13: Penalties
8-8-14: Sale Of Concessions At Special Events Held At The Highwood Recreation
Center
8-8-1: DEFINITION:
The term "special event", as used in this chapter, shall include the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any organized formation, procession, parade, or assembly of persons,
animals, vehicles, or any combination of one or more of the same, which will
travel together or with a common purpose upon any public street, road, highway,
alley, sidewalk, parking lot or other public way, and which will likely:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Not comply with normal and usual traffic regulations or controls; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Present an unusual obstruction to the normal and ordinary use of or
passage of pedestrians and/or vehicles upon any part of such a public way; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Would require the reservation or substantial use of any city parks
or public ways; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Would conflict with other events for which permits have been issued;
or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any organized assemblage of more than fifty (50) persons which will
gather in any park or other public place for a common purpose or under the
direction or control of one or more responsible persons, agencies or other
entities; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any other organized activity or set of activities conducted by one or
more individuals, groups or other entities, for a common or collective use or
benefit, and which:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Will involve the use of any public building, park, way, or other
public facility or any part thereof; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â May reasonably be expected to involve the provision of city services
ancillary thereto; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â May reasonably be expected to have a direct effect upon public
property, use of or traffic flow upon any public sidewalk, street or other
public way or any part thereof, or public health or safety within any part of
the city; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â May reasonably be expected to have a direct effect upon or cause a
substantial use of any public property including parks or public ways. (Ord.
95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-2: INTERPRETATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A "special event", as defined in section
8-8-1 of this chapter, shall include, but shall not be limited to, parades,
processions, circuses, fairs, mass participation sports such as marathons and
running events, bicycle races or tours, and spectator sports such as football,
basketball and baseball games and golf tournaments.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A "special event", as defined in section
8-8-1 of this chapter, shall not include any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Funeral processions; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sales held at residences that are subject to the Highwood house/
garage sale ordinance 1 , such as home, rummage or garage sales; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Use of the Highwood recreation center pursuant to a written lease
approved by the Highwood recreation board; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any event sponsored and controlled by the city or any of its
departments; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any procession or parade by the armed forces of the United States of
America, the military forces of the state of Illinois, or the police or fire
departments of the city of Highwood; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Use of the Highwood public library when approved by the library
board or a library director. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 12 of this code.
8-8-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person may conduct, organize, plan, promote, or otherwise hold or facilitate
any "special event", as defined in section
8-8-1 of this chapter, within any part of the city unless and until approval
for the same has been granted by the issuance of a permit for the holding of
such special event by the city hereunder. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995; amd. 2009
Code)
8-8-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Forms: The city clerk shall provide application forms to request
permits hereunder. Such application forms shall include all reasonable
information needed by each and every city department to evaluate all matters
within its area of responsibility.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Time Of Filing: The application form shall be submitted to the city
clerk at the city hall no later than sixty (60) days prior to the commencement
of the special event; except, that large scale events that require extensive
planning shall be submitted no less than six (6) months prior to the
commencement of the special event. Applications for small scale special events
which are not filed within the sixty (60) day deadline may be provisionally
accepted, subject to refusal if any city department does not have sufficient
time to process the application. Any application for a special event which,
because of its size or scope, requires more extensive planning than normal, may
be rejected if an insufficient time for advance planning is available for any
city department. No application shall be submitted more than thirteen (13)
months in advance. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fees: Each application for a permit for a special event shall include
full payment of a filing fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code for each day on which the special event will take place or
continue. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Return Of Application: An application shall be considered incomplete
and may be returned without any action by the city if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The application is not fully completed or any requested information
is missing or incomplete; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Full payment of the required fee is not tendered with the
application; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The insurance documents required under this chapter are not complete
and attached. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-5: REVIEW OF APPLICATION; MODIFICATIONS; APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT;
APPEALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Review Of Application: Once a fully complete application has been
filed, a copy thereof will be submitted to each city department which may be
affected for review and analysis. The applicant will then be contacted by the
city clerk or the appropriate city department, which will coordinate the city's
response to the proposed special event with the results of such review and
analysis. This shall include, but not be limited to, an estimate of all costs
that will be incurred by the city in any way connected or related to the
proposed special event, such as (but not limited to) for manpower, services,
equipment, and the like.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Modifications: The applicant may modify, add to, or delete from its
application as he may wish following such response from the city. The applicant
shall promptly notify the city clerk in writing when he has completed any
changes in his application and the application is in the final form that
applicant desires.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Review Of Application; Recommendations To Mayor: The application in
such final form shall then be reviewed by the appropriate city departments.
Such departments shall then make their final recommendations to the mayor with
respect to the application in its final form.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Approval Or Denial: The mayor shall then either approve or deny the
application for the special event. The city clerk shall promptly thereafter
notify the applicant, either by issuance of a permit pursuant to this chapter
or by notice of denial.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Contents And Conditions Of Permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any permit issued hereunder shall have all of the pertinent
information from the application made a part of the conditions and requirements
of the permit. The permit may be issued with any other or additional conditions
as the city may deem reasonable or necessary.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The permit shall be issued subject to the duty and obligation of the
applicant to maintain all information therein current with the city clerk,
including, but not limited to, address, telephone number, name of responsible
individual, etc.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Appeals: Any person aggrieved by a denial hereunder may appeal the same
to the city council. Such appeal shall be made in writing and shall be promptly
filed with the city clerk.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Posting Permit: A clearly legible copy of the city permit shall be
immediately available for display by all responsible persons during the special
event. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-6: INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nonliability Of City; Indemnification: No application hereunder shall
be complete unless the applicant has executed therein the prescribed portion
pursuant to which the applicant agrees to release, indemnify, defend, and hold
the city and all its officers, employees and agents harmless against any and
all claims, liabilities, suits, judgments, costs and expenses, including
attorney fees, arising out of or in consequence of any acts or omissions of the
applicant and, as may be the case, each of its directors, officers, employees
and agents in connection with the special event. Any application that is filed
with the city for a special event shall constitute such a release, hold
harmless and indemnification by the applicant. Any and all permits issued
hereunder shall likewise be subject to all such conditions.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Insurance Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The application shall not be complete, nor shall any permit be
issued hereunder unless and until the insurance requirements of this subsection
are satisfied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The minimum amount of general public liability insurance required
for a special event shall be one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The applicant shall provide the city with one or more certificates
evidencing the existence of insurance policies providing the applicant, and all
of its directors, officers, employees and agents, as the case may be, with
coverage equal to or exceeding that required in this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â All insurance certificates required hereunder shall provide that the
insurance will not be canceled or amended without thirty (30) days' prior
written notice to the city. The applicant shall name the city as additional
insured on each such general liability policy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The applicant shall further maintain, at all times during the
special event or otherwise, all such insurance and other coverage as may be
required by law, such as, but not limited to, workers' compensation and
unemployment coverage. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-7: COSTS OF EVENT:
The city shall be promptly reimbursed for all costs arising as a result of, or
in any way relating to, any special event. Such costs shall include, but are
not limited to, payment to city employees for all time spent on the special
event, replacement of any supplies or materials used, all cleanup, repair or
replacement of any damage, etc. The applicant shall be fully responsible for
and shall promptly pay to the city all such amounts upon billing for the same.
The city may require an advance deposit of any reasonable sum or a bond prior
to the special event in order to guarantee such payment. Any such advance
deposit shall be refundable after deduction of any amounts due the city
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-8: UTILITY SERVICE:
The applicant shall be responsible for and shall make all necessary
arrangements for any utility service that may be necessary or desirable, such
as, but not limited to, electricity, lighting, sound, telephone, water, sewer,
portable toilets, etc. The city shall not be made liable for any charges, costs
or expenses in connection therewith. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-9: PUBLIC SAFETY:
The applicant shall be responsible for and shall make all necessary
arrangements for public safety in connection with the special event, such as,
but not necessarily limited to, police protection, security, crowd control,
medical services (first aid, ambulance), fire protection, etc. The city shall
not be made liable for any charges, costs or expenses in connection therewith.
(Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-10: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
The acceptance of any application or issuance of any permit hereunder shall not
relieve the applicant or any other person from full compliance with all other
applicable federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances,
including any permits which may be required by other ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-11: WAIVERS:
Any requirement of this chapter may be waived by the mayor or the city council
upon a satisfactory showing that the same would be in the public interest, that
such requirement is impossible or infeasible to obey, that such requirement is
unreasonable under the circumstances, that a waiver would not be contrary to
the spirit and intent of this chapter, and that such a waiver would not
unreasonably impact the public safety, health or welfare. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-
1995)
8-8-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The mayor and each city department head shall have the right, at any time, to
revoke the permit upon substantial violation of any of its terms. This
condition shall be clearly indicated on the face of the permit. Unless
circumstances require otherwise, the applicant shall be given an opportunity to
abate or correct the violation before revocation during the event itself. (Ord.
95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-13: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every
offense, and each day that such offense continues shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995; amd. Ord. 99-O-09, 2-
16-1999)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In addition to any penalty or fine levied under this chapter, any
person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of any provision
of this chapter shall pay any and all reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
city in enforcing this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In the event the city deems it necessary to bring any court action to
enforce this chapter, there shall be assessed against any person, partnership,
firm, entity, association or corporation violating this chapter all reasonable
costs, expenses and attorney fees incurred by the city in bringing said action,
in addition to the fines provided herein.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this chapter shall not
release such person from paying any permit fee due and unpaid at the time of
such conviction, nor shall payment of any permit fee prevent criminal
prosecution for violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The amount of any permit fee shall be deemed a debt to the city. An
action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent permit fee. All unpaid permit
fees shall be deemed delinquent thirty (30) days after they are due and
payable.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The city clerk may immediately revoke the permit of any person who
violates any of the terms of this chapter. Any person aggrieved by such
revocation may appeal the same to the city council.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 95-O-11, 5-2-1995)
8-8-14: SALE OF CONCESSIONS AT SPECIAL EVENTS HELD AT THE HIGHWOOD RECREATION
CENTER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any vendor desiring to operate a concession stand for the sale of food
and/or beverage items in conjunction with a permitted special event held at the
Highwood Recreation Center shall require a permit to do so from the city of
Highwood. Applications for a concession permit shall be made on a form approved
by the city manager no less than fourteen (14) days in advance and shall
include full payment of the concession fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code for each day on which the sale of concessions will take
place. Payment of this concession fee shall be in addition to any other fees
charged in conjunction with the special event or under other provisions of this
code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any permit issued hereunder where the applicant has indicated a desire
to operate a concession stand and has paid the concession fee shall include
language allowing for such sale of conditions and any conditions related to
said sale of concessions deemed reasonable by the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Permits shall be issued or denied in the sole discretion of the city
manager or mayor. (Ord. 14-O-08, 5-6-2014)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Connection To System; Use Of Wells; Tap Fees And Costs
9-1-3: Authority To Turn On Water; Application For Service
9-1-4: Installation And Construction Requirements
9-1-5: Service To More Than One Premises
9-1-6: Meters
9-1-7: Repairs To System
9-1-8: Emergencies; Conservation Measures
9-1-9: Resale Of Water, Unauthorized Use Prohibited
9-1-10: Tampering With, Damage To System
9-1-11: Liability And Exemptions
9-1-12: Inspections
9-1-13: Penalties
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE:
Â Â Â Shall; May: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
CONSTRUCTION/IMPROVEMENT TERMS:
Â Â Â Curb Cock: A shutoff valve attached to a water service pipe from a water
main to a building installed near the curb, which may be operated by a valve
key to start or stop flow in the water supply lines of a building; also called
"curb stop".
Â Â Â Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
Â Â Â Service Box: A valve box used with corporation or curb cock.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Â Â Â Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection
agency.
Â Â Â Federal Act: The federal 1996 safe drinking water acts amendments.
IDENTIFICATION:
Â Â Â Consumer Or Customer: The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to the waterworks system.
Â Â Â Person: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Â Â Â City: The city of Highwood, Lake County, Illinois.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Â Â Â Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
Â Â Â State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970 1 .
Â Â Â State Loan: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of waterworks system as provided for by the Illinois anti-
pollution bond act and for making such loans as filed with the secretary of
state of the state of Illinois.
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Â Â Â Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the
waterworks system.
Â Â Â Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the waterworks system.
Â Â Â Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of (loan, bond, etc.) outstanding.
Â Â Â Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Â Â Â Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
Â Â Â Useful Life: The estimated period during which the waterworks system will be
operated.
Â Â Â User Charge: A charge levied on users of the waterworks system for the cost
of operation, maintenance and replacement.
Â Â Â Water Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the waterworks system.
Â Â Â Water Service Charge: The charge per period of time established by the city
levied on users of the water facilities. The service charge shall be computed
as outlined in article A of this chapter.
WATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
Â Â Â Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water constituent. It
is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters (1,000 ml) of
water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to
which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water
analysis.
Â Â Â ppm: Parts per million by weight.
Â Â Â pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA "Division
Of Laboratories Manual Of Laboratory Methods". (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
9-1-2: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM; USE OF WELLS; TAP FEES AND COSTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit And Connection Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No connections with the waterworks system shall be made without a
permit issued by the city. All such connections shall be made by city employees
under the supervision of the superintendent of water, superintendent of public
works, their designee, or a licensed plumbing company under the supervision of
the city, and no connections shall be covered until the work has been inspected
to the satisfaction of city. Whenever any premises shall hereafter be connected
with the waterworks system, a charge shall be made pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The owner, occupant or party or parties in possession of any house,
structure, factory, industrial or commercial establishment or any other
building or structure of any other character which uses water and is located on
property within the corporate limits shall cause such house, structure,
factory, industrial or commercial establishment or any other building or
structure of any other character to be connected with the waterworks system
within ninety (90) days from the date that water facilities become available to
such property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Every building with an installed plumbing system intended for human
habitation or occupancy on the premises which falls within any residentially
zoned district of the City (pursuant to the City zoning regulation) shall be
provided by the owner of said property with a connection to the public water
system and public sanitary system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Use Of Wells:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No new wells for the provision of water shall be constructed within
the corporate limits of the City. Existing nonresidential premises which are
supplied by existing wells shall be permitted to continue said use, provided it
is not expanded, altered or intensified. Such determination shall be made in
the sole discretion of the Superintendent of Water or his designees. (Ord.
2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Within fourteen (14) days of the effective date hereof, any person,
firm, corporation or entity operating an existing well shall register same with
the City. Such registration shall include identification of the well location,
when such well was put into service, the depth of the well, type of equipment,
maximum capacity, well water used on a monthly basis, and such further
information as may be reasonably required by the City. Such information shall
be updated by the operator on an annual basis on July 1 of each year. Each
registration shall be accompanied by a registration fee as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any well so permitted shall comply with the Illinois Plumbing Code,
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all other applicable State and
Federal Statutes and regulations and local regulations, and shall have
inspections and tests made of such permitted wells as required by the Illinois
Plumbing Code, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and all other
applicable State and Federal Statutes and regulations and local regulations. A
copy of such compliance records shall accompany the registration required
herein. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Tap Fees And Costs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Fees Established; Tap Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Water taps are by permission of the Superintendent of Water or
his designee only. The property owner/applicant shall install the required
water meter and pay the water tap fees as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any tap into the waterworks system shall be by full circle
stainless steel repair clamp with a welded tap of a type and kind approved by
the City, unless another tapping alternate is otherwise approved in the sole
discretion of the Superintendent of Water or his designee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Notwithstanding the above, any consumer that demonstrates to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent of Water that such consumer has a need for
an oversized meter to alleviate flow restriction may install such oversized
meter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Scope Of Fees: The water tap fees shall be due and payable for any
building or structure which is directly or indirectly connected to a City water
main. Evidence of connection to a City water main shall include, but not be
limited to, installation of a water meter for the provision of water to said
building or structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Additional Costs: The water tap fees do not include tapping,
corporation stop, curb stop, stop/buffalo box, meter pit (if permitted), meter,
materials, labor, or miscellaneous costs which shall be paid by the owner/
applicant. As set forth herein, water service lines to the main shall be
maintained by the property owner. If the property owner shall fail to maintain
said line pursuant to the direction of the City, the City may pursue any or all
of the following remedies:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Terminate the water service to the premises until repairs deemed
necessary by the City are made. The cost of said termination shall be paid by
the owner, and if not paid, said charges shall be deemed to be unpaid water
charges and shall, at the City's sole option, constitute a lien upon the
serviced property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Charge the property owner for the estimated cost of all water
that is determined by the City to have not been metered.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Perform the repairs or maintenance to the service lines. The cost
of said repairs shall be paid by the owner upon presentation, or said charges
shall be deemed to be unpaid water charges and shall, at the City's sole
option, constitute a lien upon the serviced property which may be foreclosed as
set forth herein, and if unpaid, the City may terminate service to the
property. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1-3: AUTHORITY TO TURN ON WATER; APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
No water from the waterworks system shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person other than the superintendent of the water department or
his designee. Applications to have water turned on shall be made in writing to
the city and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept
all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use and
service of the waterworks system by the applicant. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1-4: INSTALLATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Service Pipes: The state plumbing code shall control the design and
installation of new plumbing systems and the alteration of existing plumbing
systems. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Compliance With Plumbing Regulations: No water shall be turned on for
service in any premises in which the plumbing does not comply with the
ordinances of the city; provided, that water may be turned on for construction
work in unfinished buildings, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Excavations: Excavations for installing service pipes and laterals or
repairing the same shall be made in compliance with the ordinance provisions
relating to making excavations in streets; provided, that it shall be unlawful
to place any service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any
drainpipe or sewer lateral, unless approved by the city.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Shutoff Boxes: Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every
service pipe, and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line
where this is practicable. Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily
accessible and shall be protected from frost. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Costs: All service pipes and laterals required or permitted by the
city, from the waterworks system (water mains/corporation) to the stop box,
shall be installed at the sole expense of the owner of the property to be
served or the applicant for the service. If such water service must cross a
city or state road or alley that requires boring and casing, the cost of such
boring and/or casing shall be borne by the applicant for the service or the
owner of the property being served. All such water services shall have a curb
cock with a stop box flush with the ground and placed as directed and approved
by the superintendent of water or his designee. Repairs to existing water pits
for service connections may be permitted in the sole discretion of the
superintendent of water or his designee, at the sole cost of the owner of the
property to be served or the applicant for the service. (Ord. 14-O-11, 6-3-
2014)
9-1-5: SERVICE TO MORE THAN ONE PREMISES:
No owner or plumber shall be permitted to connect water pipes into any two (2)
distinct premises or tenements. Multiple units on single lots, consolidated
lots, single zoning lots, duplex flats, double houses, multi-family
construction, condominium structures and apartment houses shall be considered
as one "premises". (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1-6: METERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Metered Water Required: Any person who receives water from the city
public water supply shall install and maintain a water meter, approved and
supplied by the city in its sole discretion. All meters placed in service on
any premises using the city water supply will be provided by the city at the
cost of the property owner; however, such meters shall be owned by the city,
which retains the right to inspect, repair and replace them upon reasonable
notice to the owner of the premises. The property owner shall be responsible
for the cost of repair or replacement of the water meter if damaged by any
negligence or intentional act of the owner or occupant of the property being
serviced.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Location: All water meters required by ordinance and hereinafter
installed, replaced or serviced within the city shall be installed in a
location that will provide easy access thereto and shall be located in the
basement or crawl space of the structure being constructed or remodeled. In the
event the structure does not have a basement or crawl space, the location of
the water meter shall be designated by the code official or superintendent of
water or their designee. Further, the water meter, when installed, replaced or
serviced, shall provide for and include an exterior remote receptacle for
reading the installed water meter. Said receptacle shall be of a type approved
by the city and installed and maintained in a location which is easily
accessible to personnel of the water department. The location of said
receptacle shall be approved by the code official or superintendent of water or
their designee. In the event that there is any suspected malfunction of the
metering system, then, upon notice, access to the property shall be made
available to the superintendent of water or his designee for inspection and
repair. Upon failure to make the premises immediately available, water service
to the premises may be terminated. Once so terminated, all of the charges,
fines and fees specified in article A of this chapter for disconnection of
delinquent consumers shall be applicable for such disconnection and
reconnection. All owners and occupants shall, at their own expense, keep all
water meters, including those previously located in outside meter pits, in good
repair and properly protected from frost and other dangers, and shall be
responsible for the cost of replacing or repairing water meters that are
damaged due to the failure of the owner or occupant to keep said meter in good
repair or to protect said meter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Reading Meters: The superintendent of water shall read or cause to be
read every water meter used in the city at such times as are necessary so that
the bills may be sent out at the proper times.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Testing Meters: Upon request or complaint of the consumer, any water
meter shall be tested for accuracy. If, upon testing, the meter is found to be
over three percent (3%) off in accuracy, the meter shall be replaced at no cost
to the consumer. If the meter is found to be three percent (3%) or less in
accuracy, then the consumer shall pay a testing fee equal to the cost charged
by the contractor or facility performing the test, which contractor or facility
shall be selected by the city. The city may also impose an administrative fee
not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of the testing fee. (Ord. 14-O-11, 6-3-2014)
9-1-7: REPAIRS TO SYSTEM:
All repairs for service pipes and laterals from the waterworks system (water
mains/corporation) to the stop box shall be made at the sole expense of the
owner of the property to be served or the applicant for the service. All
repairs and excavations from the stop box to the property being served shall be
made at the sole expense of the owner of the property to be served or the
applicant for the service. The proposed repairs shall be approved by the
superintendent of water or his designee who may require the replacement of all
or a portion of such service. All owners and/or occupants shall, at their own
expense, keep their water service pipe from the point of connection with the
stop box to their premises, and all other apparatus, such as meters, including
any meters located in outside meter pits, in good repair and properly protected
from frost and other dangers. (Ord. 14-O-11, 6-3-2014)
9-1-8: EMERGENCIES; CONSERVATION MEASURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
Â Â Â  A PERIOD OF EMERGENCY WATER CONDITIONS: Any of the conditions listed in
subsection B1 of this section.
Â Â Â SPRINKLING: The transfer of water by means of hoses, tubing, pipes or
otherwise from any water source under the control of or supplied by the city
waterworks system to any lawn or any outdoor plants or vegetation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Emergencies:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Declaration Of Emergency: The mayor or the superintendent of water
or their designee is empowered to declare that a state of emergency water
condition exists, in his sole discretion, including, but not limited to,
whenever any one or more of the following conditions exist:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Pump breakdown in wells.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Failure in distribution systems of water.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Pump breakdown in the water plant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A contamination of the city water supply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A regional water shortage is determined by the state.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â A local water shortage is determined to exist.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Procedures: During the time when the emergency water condition
exists, the mayor or superintendent of water or their designee shall take the
following steps as deemed necessary:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Order closed all commercial car wash facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Order closed all commercial laundries.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Require the cessation of all water main flushing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Require the cessation of all sewer flushing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Limit the exterior water use by commercial and residential
consumers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Limit or cut off the industrial use of water.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Lower the distribution system pressure so long as there is enough
pressure for adequate fire protection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Notice Of Emergency: Notice of the declared state of emergency water
condition must be served either by mail, in person or by posting in city hall
of any steps taken in subsection B2 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Shut Off Of Water: The mayor or superintendent of water or their
designee may limit or cut off the water supply to any structure which fails to
comply with the terms and conditions of this section, with or without notice,
until said structure and all facilities thereunder meet with the standards of
this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Outside Water Use: Outside water use is hereby regulated in the
following manner:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The users of the city waterworks system shall be encouraged to
voluntarily regulate their sprinkling to every other day, with the consumers
with odd numbered addresses watering on odd numbered days (i.e., 17 Highwood
Avenue watering on the first, third, etc.) and even numbered addresses watering
on even numbered days (i.e., 300 Green Bay Road on the second, fourth, etc.).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All outdoor sprinkling during May, June, July, August and September
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
(or such other times as prohibited by regulation of the state) is hereby
banned. Sprinkling shall be permitted only between the hours of one minute past
five o'clock (5:01) P.M. and eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) A.M. of the next
day, or such other times as may be permitted by regulation through the state.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â During the period of emergency water conditions, as proclaimed by
the mayor of the city pursuant to this section, users of the waterworks system
may be required to restrict sprinkling to every other day, with the users with
odd numbered addresses watering on odd numbered days (i.e., 17 Highwood Avenue
watering on the first and third, etc.) and even numbered addresses watering on
even numbered days (i.e., 300 Green Bay Road on the second and fourth, etc.).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â During a period of extended emergency water conditions as proclaimed
by the mayor or superintendent of water or their designee, sprinkling or all or
some outside use of water for the duration of the period of extended emergency
water conditions may be banned.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â When such proclamation is made pursuant hereto, the city shall take
reasonable steps to communicate same to the public.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Violations: For failure to obey an order to limit or cease use of water
when the emergency condition or an extended emergency condition exists and any
sprinkling which is in violation of this chapter, each hour shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1-9: RESALE OF WATER, UNAUTHORIZED USE PROHIBITED:
No water supplied by the waterworks system of the city shall be resold by any
consumer. No water consumer may supply water to other families or allow them to
take water, except for use on the premises and for the purpose specified in
such consumer's approved application. After water is introduced into any
building or upon any premises, no person shall make or employ any other person
to make any tap or connection with or work upon the premises for alterations,
repairs, extensions or attachments without a written permit therefor. Resale or
unauthorized use of water shall be grounds for discontinuance of water service
to the consumer or the premises, or both. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1-10: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city council to
connect to, tamper with, alter or injure any part of the city waterworks or
supply system, or any meter. If any person allows damage to occur, either
intentionally, through negligence, or in any other fashion to any water meter,
including meters located in outside meter pits, or any portion of the city's
water supply system, it shall be said person's and the property owner's
responsibility to contact the city for an inspection. Pursuant to said
inspection, the city may recommend that the respective water meters, remote
reader or any other portion of the municipal waterworks or system be replaced
or repaired and such repair or replacement shall be at the sole expense of the
property owner or person causing the damage. For purposes of this section, a
meter with a broken seal or a frozen meter shall be deemed to be a damaged
meter. (Ord. 14-O-11, 6-3-2014)
9-1-11: LIABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Service Failures: All waterworks service supplied by the waterworks
system shall be upon the express condition that the city shall not be liable
nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or injury caused by reason
of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with said system or any part or portion thereof, or for
any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of machinery, or by
reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewals.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interruption Of Service: The city reserves the right to shut off water
at any time in the mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making
connections with or extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in
any part of the city, and for restricting the use of water in case of
deficiency in supply, including the suspension of the use of water for
sprinkling lawns or gardens. No claim shall be made against the city by reason
of the breaking of any service pipe or service cock, or damage arising from
shutting off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or
other connections, or repairing any part of the waterworks system, or from
failure of the water supply, or by increasing or decreasing the water pressure
at any time, or from concentrated or restricted use of water as above.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Indemnification Of City: The city does not waive the immunities
provided by law to itself, its officers, officials, employees, or agents,
including, but not limited to, those under the Illinois tort immunity act 1 .
However, to the extent any liability may exist for which said immunity does not
apply, by accepting service, each consumer does hereby release, indemnify and
hold harmless the city, and each of its corporate authorities, elected and
appointed officials, officers, boards, commissions, legal counsel, agents, and
employees from and against the following: Any and all liability, claims,
damages, losses and expenses, including, without limitation, attorney fees and
costs, from any claim whatsoever related to the provision of water services,
the waterworks system, or service pipes and laterals required or permitted by
the city.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â City Exempt: The city and its agents, employees and contractors shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter where determined to be in the
best interests of the city, in the opinion of the superintendent of water.
(Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.
9-1-12: INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Right Of Access:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The city and its employees and the Illinois environmental protection
agency shall have ready access at all reasonable times to the premises, places
or buildings where water service is supplied for the purpose of inspecting,
examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to interfere with, prevent or obstruct the city or any
duly authorized agent of the city or the Illinois environmental protection
agency in its duties hereunder. Every consumer of the system shall take the
same upon the conditions prescribed in this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event that there is any denial of the aforesaid right of
access, then upon notice from the city, and upon failure to make access to the
premises immediately available, water service to the premises may be
terminated. Once so terminated, all of the charges, fines and fees specified in
article A of this chapter for disconnection of delinquent consumers shall be
applicable for such disconnection and reconnection.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Powers And Authority Of Inspectors:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The superintendent of water, his designee and other duly authorized
employees of the city and the Illinois environmental protection agency, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
superintendent of water or his representative shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for
waste treatment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The superintendent of water, his designee and other duly authorized
employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which a city water line
exists through a duly negotiated easement or otherwise for the purposes of, but
not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the waterworks system lying within said easement.
(Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1-13: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of
any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In addition to any penalty or fine levied under subsection A, B, C or D
of this section, any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the city for any
expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any amount due hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the city. An action
may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction
for the amount of any delinquent permit fee. All unpaid permit fees shall be
deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-
2004)
ARTICLE A. RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Basis For Water Service Charges
9-1A-2: Measurement Of Flow
9-1A-3: Rate Categories; Charges Established
9-1A-4: Computation Of Charge
9-1A-5: Appeals
9-1A-6: Audit Required
9-1A-7: Bills Rendered; Liability; Late Payment Penalty
9-1A-8: Delinquent Payments; Discontinuance And Restoration Of Service
9-1A-9: Lien Provisions
9-1A-10: Fee For Final Meter Reading; Change In Statement Information
9-1A-11: Revenues
9-1A-12: Accounting
9-1A-13: Notice Of Rates
9-1A-14: Required Deposit For New Water Accounts
9-1A-1: BASIS FOR WATER SERVICE CHARGES:
Where an amount or rate has not been specifically determined in this chapter,
the water service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the water
facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge, a debt service
charge, and a capital improvement charge. The city may establish differential
rates based upon categories of consumers.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Basic User Charge: The basic user charge is levied on all consumers to
recover the operation, maintenance and replacement (hereinafter "OM&R") costs
and shall be based on water usage as recorded by water meters. The basic user
charge shall be computed as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Estimate the annual water volume.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the water facilities, including a replacement fund for the year, for
all works categories.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Compute costs per one hundred (100) cubic feet.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge is computed by
apportioning the annual debt service at the city's option either as:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A charge per one hundred (100) cubic feet; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A fixed charge per billing period; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A fixed charge, plus a charge per one hundred (100) cubic feet.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Capital Improvement Charge: The capital improvement charge is levied on
consumers to provide for capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of
the waterworks system. The capital improvement charge is computed by
apportioning the annual amount to be accrued at the city's option either as:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A charge per one hundred (100) cubic feet; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A fixed charge per billing period; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A fixed charge, plus a charge per one hundred (100) cubic feet.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Consumer Category Differential: The consumer category differential is
an additional amount levied upon different categories of consumers to
compensate for the disproportionate cost of providing service, increasing
capacity, or increased maintenance. Such amount may be applied to billings for
the water supply or wastewater facilities. Such amount may be expressed at the
city's option either as:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A charge per one hundred (100) cubic feet; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A fixed charge per billing period; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A fixed charge, plus a charge per one hundred (100) cubic feet; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â An additional fixed surcharge, surcharge per business or residential
unit receiving service, increase in rate, or combination thereof per billing
period or per one hundred (100) cubic feet. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-2: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges shall be the
metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of one hundred
(100) cubic feet.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Where a person is permitted by the City to procure any part of his
water from sources other than the public waterworks system, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the
City for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from these
other sources.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Devices for measuring the volume of water may be required by the City
if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the metered water
consumption records. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Metering devices for determining the volume shall be installed and
maintained by the person. Following approval and installation, such meters may
not be removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of the City.
(Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
9-1A-3: RATE CATEGORIES; CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Consumers: Based upon the components in this article, the following
charges and rate categories are hereby determined for water consumers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Within City Limits:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â There is hereby established a charge to each user of the
waterworks system of the City, based upon the amount of water consumed, as
registered by the water meters installed in each domicile, as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The minimum charge in any one (1) 2-month period shall be the
equivalent of ten (10) units of one hundred (100) cubic feet. (Ord. 12-O-39, 9-
4-2012)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Outside City Limits:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â There is hereby established a charge, in addition to the charge
described in subsection A1 of this section, to each user of the waterworks
system of the City who is not located within the corporate limits of the City,
based on the amount of water consumed, as registered by water meters installed
in each domicile service as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The minimum charge in any one (1) 2-month period shall be the
equivalent of ten (10) units of one hundred (100) cubic feet. (Ord. 12-O-39, 9-
4-2012)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Environmental Remediation Fee: Certain costs have been, and will be,
incurred by the City which were necessitated by environmental considerations.
Specifically, costs for remediation of underground storage tanks at the water
plant facility; mandated shoreline cleanup; remediation due to disposal of
debris at the water plant facility; removal of sediment and chemicals in the
filtration process; and issues regarding remediation of areas where water and
sewer mains are constructed. Compliance by the City with environmental
considerations is mandated by law and by the desire of the City to provide the
best quality water to the consumers of its waterworks system. Therefore, in
addition to the rates imposed above, all property, whether within the City or
outside the City limits of the City and having a connection with any mains or
pipes constructed or hereafter constructed and used in connection with the City
waterworks system, where water meters are used, shall be charged at the rate as
provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Said environmental remediation fee shall be separately designated on each
statement, if practicable.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Adjustment Of Rates To Comply With Bond Requirements: The City shall
from time to time adjust the above rates by further ordinance as may be
required to ensure that the City is at all times in compliance with the revenue
requirements of "an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issuance of
waterworks and sewerage bonds, series 1994, of the City of Highwood", ordinance
94-O-24, any refinancing of said bond, or as may be required to ensure that the
City is at all times in compliance with the revenue requirements of "an
ordinance authorizing the City of Highwood, Lake County, Illinois to borrow
funds from the public water supply loan program", ordinance 99-O-55. (Ord. 10-
O-22, 6-15-2010; amd. Ord. 12-O-39, 9-4-2012)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Water Meter Surcharge Fee: Certain costs have been, and will be,
incurred by the City with regard to the purchase and installation of new water
meters for water consumers. Therefore, in addition to the rates imposed above,
all property, whether within the City or outside the City limits of the City
and having a connection with any mains or pipes constructed or hereafter
constructed and used in connection with the City waterworks system, where water
meters are used, shall be charged a surcharge in an amount as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this Code per billing cycle. This surcharge shall terminate upon
final payment by the City of all costs related to purchase and installation of
the new water meters, including all debt service payments. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-
2018)
9-1A-4: COMPUTATION OF CHARGE:
Where an amount or rate has not been specifically determined above, the water
service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
CW = CC + CD + CM + (Vu-X)CU
(as adjusted by CCD for any category established above)
Where:   Â 
CW     = Amount of water service charge ($) per billing period
CC     = Capital improvement charge (subsection 9-1A-1C of this article)
CD     = Debt service charge (subsection 9-1A-1B of this article)
CM     = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (section
         9-1A-3 et seq., of this article, as applicable)
Vu     = Water volume for the billing period
X      = Allowable consumption in cubic feet for the minimum charge (subsection
         9-1A-3A1 or A2 of this article, as applicable)
CU     = Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
         (subsection 9-1A-1A of this article)
CCD    = Consumer category differential (subsection 9-1A-1D of this article)
Â 
(Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-5: APPEALS:
The method for computation of rates and service charges established for
consumer charges in this article shall be made available to a consumer within
thirty (30) days of receipt of a written request for same. Any disagreement
over the charges or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the City
within ninety (90) days after receipt of a formal written appeal outlining the
alleged discrepancy. Any such appeal shall be filed within thirty (30) days of
the mailing of the bill by the City. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-6: AUDIT REQUIRED:
The adequacy of the water service charge shall be reviewed, not less often than
annually, by certified public accountants or financial consultants for the City
in their annual audit report. The water service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or OM&R costs. (Ord.
2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-7: BILLS RENDERED; LIABILITY; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All water charges and rents shall be due and payable on January 1,
March 1, May 1, July 1, September 1, and November 1 of each and every year for
the period last preceding. However, high volume commercial consumer water
charges and rents shall be due and payable monthly, if so billed by the City at
its sole option.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All water charges and rents shall be fixed upon the reading of the
meters for the preceding period, and the Clerk of the Water Department or the
City Collector shall, at the expiration of each period aforesaid, mail to all
water consumers statements or bills with the amounts due from them
respectively. However, at its option, the City may fix water charges and rents
upon an estimate of water usage for any given billing period. If the water
rents and charges are fixed upon said estimate, the water charges and rents for
the following billing period shall be fixed upon the reading of the meter, and
the charges adjusted according to actual usage revealed by said reading.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the consumer of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for all fees, fines,
penalties and charges levied under this article, including the water service to
any premises furnished to the premises by the City.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In the event any consumer fails to pay such bill within twenty (20)
days from the date of mailing, such consumer shall pay an additional charge as
follows: an initial late charge of ten percent (10%) of the bill amount as a
late payment penalty. An additional late charge of ten percent (10%) per month
of the outstanding bill shall accrue thereafter as a penalty for failure to
make prompt payments. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-8: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; DISCONTINUANCE AND RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
If the charges for such services are not paid within sixty (60) days after the
rendition of the bill for such services, such services shall be discontinued
without further notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are
settled. In the event that water service is cutoff or terminated to any
consumer for failure to make payment for service, or under any other ordinance
requiring disconnection, as required herein, water service shall be restored to
the consumer only upon payment of the consumer's bill, all accrued late
charges, and a turn on fee as follows: (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An amount as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code for any residential use.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â An amount as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code for any business or commercial use. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-
2018)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Further, the consumer shall pay any and all fees incurred by the City
in effectuating said water service cutoff including, but not limited to,
manpower charges for effectuating said turnoff and any repairs, modifications
or construction of the water service in effectuating the water service turnoff
or turn on. This shall include repair to any water mains or pipes; excavation
to effectuate the turnoff or turn on; cost of installation of necessary valves
or piping and repair and restoration of the street, sidewalk, curbing or
landscaping attendant to said turnoff or turn on. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-9: LIEN PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Statement Of Lien Claim:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid for sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered, the City Treasurer may file with the County
Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a
notice that the City claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the consumer whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises and the City Treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to
the owner of the premises if his address be known to the Treasurer. The failure
of the City Treasurer to record such lien or to mail such notice or the failure
of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the
lien for unpaid bills as set forth herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be pursuant to a
complaint filed in the name of the City. The City Attorney is hereby authorized
to institute such proceedings in the name of the City in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid for sixty (60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 2004-O-8,
1-20-2004)
9-1A-10: FEE FOR FINAL METER READING; CHANGE IN STATEMENT INFORMATION:
Upon the request of any consumer for a final meter reading, or any other meter
reading at the consumer's request, or upon the request of any consumer to
change the name or address of the consumer's statement or bill, a fee in an
amount as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code shall be charged by the Clerk of the Water Department or
the City Collector. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
9-1A-11: REVENUES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the waterworks
system shall be deposited in the water account of the Water Fund not more than
ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as
may from time to time be directed by the City Council. All such revenues and
monies shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart from all other
funds of the City.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the waterworks
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the "Water Fund of the City of Highwood". The Treasurer
shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by State
Statute relating to public funds. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-12: ACCOUNTING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â System Of Accounts: The City Treasurer shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
waterworks system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made
an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts
and disbursements of the waterworks system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Annual Audit Report: In addition to the customary operating statements,
the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses
of the water facilities, including a replacement cost. The financial
information to be shown in the audit report shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Flow data showing total gallons received at the water plant for the
current fiscal year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Number of consumers connected to the system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Number of nonmetered consumers. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-13: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this article, properly certified by the City Treasurer or City Clerk,
shall be filed in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds and shall be
deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the waterworks
system of the City on the properties. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1A-14: REQUIRED DEPOSIT FOR NEW WATER ACCOUNTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any user establishing a new water account on or after September 11,
2012, shall be required to provide a deposit to the City in the amount as
provided in section
3-2A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-O-17, 8-21-2018)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â When service to the user is discontinued permanently, this deposit,
less any amount still owed the City, shall be refunded, without interest. (Ord.
12-O-39, 9-4-2012)
ARTICLE B. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-1B-1: Purpose
9-1B-2: Scope
9-1B-3: Policy
9-1B-4: Definitions
9-1B-5: Water System
9-1B-6: Cross Connections Restricted
9-1B-7: Surveys And Investigations
9-1B-8: Where Protection Required
9-1B-9: Type Of Protection Required
9-1B-10: Backflow Prevention Devices
9-1B-11: Inspections, Tests And Maintenance
9-1B-12: Booster Pumps
9-1B-13: Violations
9-1B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Protect the public water supply system from contamination or pollution
by isolating within the consumer's water system contaminants or pollutants
which could backflow through the service connection into the public water
supply system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross connection
control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the public and
consumer's potable water systems. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1B-2: SCOPE:
This article shall apply to all premises served by the public potable water
supply system of the city. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1B-3: POLICY:
The owner, official custodian, customer, consumer and/or occupant of any
property shall be responsible for protection of the public water supply system
from contamination due to backflow or back siphonage of contaminants through
the consumer's water service connection. If, in the judgment of the
superintendent of water or his designee, an approved backflow prevention device
is necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the
superintendent of water shall give notice to the consumer to install such
approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to the premises.
The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or devices at his
own expense. Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to
install such device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for
discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or devices have
been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance,
testing and repair as required in subsection 9-1B-7D3 of this article for a
period of at least five (5) years. The superintendent of water may require the
consumer to submit a cross connection inspection report to the city water
department to assist in determining whether or not service line protection will
be required. All cross connection inspections shall be conducted by a cross
connection control device inspector certified by the Illinois environmental
protection agency. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1B-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER OR USER: The owner, official custodian or person in
control of any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public
water system.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water system.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
DIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 115. A "double check valve
assembly" must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe", as used to qualify "health hazard",
means a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in
death or significant reduction in the quality of life.
INDIRECT CROSS CONNECTION: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 654.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. "Plumbing" includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. "Plumbing" includes all piping, from discharge of pumping units to
and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. "Plumbing" includes all
piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building drain and a
sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or buildings
where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of connection
of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage disposal system
five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative
code 654 for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Polluted or contaminated waters.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Process waters.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Cooling waters.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Chemicals in solution or suspension.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A "public water supply" is either a "community water supply" or a
"noncommunity water supply".
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves, together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The "survey" must be in written form and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system. (Ord.
2004-O-8, 1-20-2004; amd. 2009 Code)
9-1B-5: WATER SYSTEM:
The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the public
water supply system and the consumer's water system.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Public Water Supply System:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the superintendent of water up
to the point where a consumer's water system begins.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public
water supply distribution system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's
water system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Consumer's Water System: The consumer's water system shall include all
parts of the facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from
the public water supply distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 2004-O-8,
1-20-2004)
9-1B-6: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1B-7: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved cross connection control device inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â On request by the superintendent of water or his designee, the consumer
shall furnish information regarding the piping system or systems or water use
within the consumer's premises. The consumer's premises shall be open at all
reasonable times to the superintendent of water for the verification of
information submitted by the inspection consumer to the public water supply
custodian regarding cross connection inspection results.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into
the public water system by ensuring that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All cross connections are removed or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â a. Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the time
of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency as a
cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with all applicable
statutes and 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Date of each test;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Name and approval number of person performing the test;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Test results;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Repairs or servicing required;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Repairs and date completed; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Servicing performed and dated completed. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-
20-2004)
9-1B-8: WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving premises
where, in the judgment of the superintendent of water, actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply system exist. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004;
amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the superintendent of water, and
the source is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the superintendent of water.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the superintendent of water and/or the cross connection control device
inspector, are not correctable or are intricate plumbing arrangements which
make it impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890 and the agency's regulations 35 Illinois administrative
code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving, but not
necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities, unless the
superintendent of water determines that no actual or potential hazard to the
public water supply system exists:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Car washes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Chemical plants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Dry cleaning and laundry establishments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Food or beverage processing plants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes, medical and dental
offices.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Laboratories.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Metal plating industries.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Petroleum processing or storage plants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Piers, docks and waterfront facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Restaurants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater pumping
stations. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1B-9: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The type of protection required under subsections 9-1B-8B1, B2 and B3
of this article shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists, as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve assembly shall be
installed where the public water supply system may be polluted with substances
that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The type of protection required under subsections 9-1B-8B4 and B5 of
this article shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Water can be pumped into the fire safety system from any other
source; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
to the fire safety system.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1B-10: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All backflow prevention devices or methods required by this article
shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross Connection Control of
the University of Southern California, American Water Works Association,
American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specification.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance, as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device, shall be performed. The manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on site. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1B-11: INSPECTIONS, TESTS AND MAINTENANCE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by this article are installed to have inspections,
tests, maintenance and repairs made in accordance with the following schedule
or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in the
manufacturer's instructions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at the
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A maintenance log shall be maintained and shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Date of each test or visual inspection;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Test results;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Repairs or servicing required;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Repairs and date completed; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Servicing performed and date completed.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this article are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this section.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
superintendent of water. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
9-1B-12: BOOSTER PUMPS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the superintendent of
water, at least once a year, that the device is operable. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-
2004)
9-1B-13: VIOLATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The superintendent of water shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any
backflow prevention device required by this article is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the superintendent of water,
or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or
bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises, or if a
low pressure cutoff required by this article is not installed and maintained in
working order.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with this
article and to the satisfaction of the superintendent of water, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with this
article and to the satisfaction of the superintendent of water.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Neither the city or the superintendent of water or their agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customers of the city for any injury, damage or
lost revenue which may result from termination of said consumer's water supply
in accordance with the terms of this article, whether or not said termination
of the water supply was with or without notice.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Any person found to be violating any provision of this article shall be
served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, in addition
to the fine provided 1 , shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss
or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the same
was caused before or after notice. (Ord. 2004-O-8, 1-20-2004)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-13 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Title
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-2-4: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
9-2-5: Building Sewers And Connections
9-2-6: Discharges Into System
9-2-7: Interceptors
9-2-8: Control Manhole
9-2-9: Industrial Wastes
9-2-10: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
9-2-11: Damage To, Tampering With System
9-2-12: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-2-13: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
9-2-14: Violations; Penalties
9-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be named, and may hereafter be referred to as the SEWER USE
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HIGHWOOD. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter shall mean as follows:
ADMINISTRATOR: The city administrator or his designee.
BOD: Biochemical oxygen demand, which is defined as the quantity of oxygen used
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five (5) days at twenty
degrees Celsius (20Â°C), determined by standard laboratory test procedures and
expressed in milligrams per liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The building official of the city or his authorized deputy
or representative.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure specifically designed and constructed for sampling
and metering industrial wastes discharged to a public sewer.
DISTRICT: The North Shore sanitary district of Lake County, Illinois.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FEDERAL ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et seq.), as
amended by the federal water pollution control act of amendments of 1972
(public law 92-500 and public law 93-243).
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: The wastewater discharged, permitted to flow, or escaping
from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business establishment or
process, or from the development, recovery or processing of any natural
resource as distinct from employee wastes or wastewater from sanitary
conveniences.
mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface water.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, public or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in grams, molecular weight (moles) per liter.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before discharge into
the public sewer.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2")
(1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights of connection and use, and is operated, maintained and controlled by the
city.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage and polluted industrial wastes, and
to which stormwater, surface drainage, ground water or unpolluted wastewater is
not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the wastewater from residential, commercial,
industrial and institutional buildings, together with such ground water
infiltration and surface water inflow that may be in the sewers.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: An arrangement of devices, structures and processes for
treating and disposing of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other wastewater,
including stormwater, surface water and ground water drainage.
SEWERAGE WORKS: All facilities of the city for collecting, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage and industrial wastes.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" means mandatory; "may" means permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of sewage, industrial waste or other wastewater which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
STATE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT: The Illinois environmental protection act
effective July 1970, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer that conveys stormwater runoff and surface
water drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of precipitation which is not absorbed into the
ground and which is drained from the ground surface to a natural outlet or
watercourse.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of public works of the city or his
authorized deputy or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastewaters, the
quantity of which is determined by standard laboratory filtering test
procedures and referred to as nonfilterable residue expressed in milligrams per
liter.
UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER: Wastewater that would not cause any violation of water
quality standards of the water pollution regulations of Illinois when
discharged to a natural outlet or watercourse.
WASTEWATER: The wastewater from any domestic, commercial, industrial and
institutional uses.
WATERCOURSE: Any stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, slough, gulch, ditch, reservoir, lake, pond or other natural or
manmade drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff and surface water
drainage flow either continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981;
amd. 2009 Code)
9-2-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within any area under the jurisdiction of the City,
any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Treatment Required: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet or watercourse within any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Connection To Sewer System Required: The owners of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley, or
right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located any
public sanitary sewer of the City, is hereby required, at his expense, to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so;
provided, that said sewer is within four hundred feet (400') (121.9 m) of the
property line. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
9-2-4: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of subsection 9-2-3D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with the provisions of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the building official.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Application For Permit: The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the City which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
building official. A permit and inspection fee 1  as required by the City shall
be paid at the time the application is filed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Inspections: A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not
become effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
building official. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
building official when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within seventy
two (72) hours of the receipt of written notice by the building official.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code 2  and with the State
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet (3,716
square meters). No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to
any natural outlet or watercourse.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
City.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sanitary sewer becomes available to a property served by a private
sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection 9-2-3D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to said sewer within ninety (90) days, and
the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with
sand or gravel.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Additional Regulations: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the building official. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-2A-1 of this Code.
2 2. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
9-2-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit To Connect:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
Superintendent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential and commercial service; and b) for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
City, and by the district in the case of industrial wastes. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the building official.
(Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee as provided
in section
3-2A-1 of this Code shall be paid to the City at the time the application is
filed. Each industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Conditions Of Permit: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage works, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear of the building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended
to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Installation And Connection Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The building sewer shall be extra strength vitrified clay pipe and
fittings conforming to ASTM specification C700 with compression type joints
conforming to ASTM specification C425, or extra heavy cast iron soil pipe and
fittings conforming to CISPI specification HS-67 with compression type rubber
gasket joints conforming to ASTM specification C564, or other suitable
materials approved by the Superintendent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The building sewer shall not be less than six inch (6") diameter
size pipe, installed at a minimum invert slope of one- eighth inch (1/8") per
foot, or not less than four inch (4") diameter size pipe in length of not less
than ten feet (10'), installed at a minimum invert slope of one-fourth inch (1/
4") per foot. Building sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the
requirements of the Superintendent as to trench excavation and backfilling,
installation of pipe and fittings and testing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the Y branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location. If
the public sewer is twelve inches (12") in diameter or less and no properly
located Y branch is available, the owner shall, at his expense, install a Y
branch in the public sewer at the location specified and installation approved
by the Superintendent. Where the public sewer is greater than twelve inches
(12") in diameter and no properly located Y branch is available, a neat hole
may be cut into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in
the downstream direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45Â°). A forty
five degree (45Â°) ell may be used to make such connection, with the spigot end
cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert
of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or a
higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint
shall be made and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in
concrete. Special fittings may be used for the connection when approved by the
superintendent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The building sewer pipe shall be bedded on a layer of gravel or
crushed stone conforming to ASTM no. 67 specifications and shall have a minimum
thickness of four inches (4") under the pipe barrel and two inches (2") under
the bells. It shall be carefully placed and compacted around the pipe to
provide uniform support to the bottom quadrant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sewage carried by such drains shall be lifted
by approved pumping devices and discharged to the building sewer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â In structures with crawl spaces or on slabs, a cleanout Y (wye) at
the outside wall is required to be installed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city. Prior to any
excavation, the plumber or sewer contractor shall notify all public and private
utility companies.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Prohibited Discharges:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to discharge wastewater to any public sanitary
sewer except those wastewaters in compliance with standards promulgated
pursuant to the federal act, or the state environmental protection act, or any
rules, regulations ordinances or standards of the city and/or the district.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the superintendent.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Liability For Costs And Expenses; Bond And Insurance Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The person installing the building sewer for said owner shall be a
plumber or sewer contractor, and he shall indemnify the village from any loss
or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by said installation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Before a building sewer permit is issued, the plumber or sewer
contractor shall file with the city clerk an indemnity bond in the amount of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), with corporate surety licensed to do
business in the state of Illinois, on bond form supplied by the city. In
addition thereto, the plumber or sewer contractor shall file with the city
clerk a certificate of insurance covering public liability in the amount of one
hundred thousand dollars/three hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00/
$300,000.00) for bodily injury and fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) covering
property damage. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
9-2-6: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Storm And Surface Waters:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any public sanitary
sewer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of
the superintendent, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewerage works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewerage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings,
entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground
by garbage grinders.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Restricted Discharges:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to a public
sanitary sewer the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes
if it appears likely, in the opinion of the superintendent, that such waters or
wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment; have
an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb
or public property, or constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinions as to the
acceptability of these wastes, the superintendent will give consideration to
such factors as the quantities of such waters or wastes in relation to flows
and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature
of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree
of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150Â°F) (65Â°C).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials, or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit
(150Â°F) (0Â° and 65Â°C).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the superintendent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received at the
sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the district for such
materials.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the district as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the district in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005
milligrams per liter as Hg at any time, except as permitted by the district in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligrams per liter at any time,
except as permitted by the district in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Materials which exert or cause:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined in section
9-2-2 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sanitary sewers, which waters contain the substances
or possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section and/
or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter
1, EPA Rules And Regulations, subchapter D, Water Programs, part 128,
Pretreatment Standards, federal register volume 38 no. 215, Thursday, November
8, 1973, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the
district, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent may reject the wastes, require
pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public sanitary
sewers, require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating the wastes
not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981; amd.
2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
wastewater flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent and/or district and
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his expense. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
9-2-7: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be required for
private quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the superintendent and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
9-2-8: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when required
by the superintendent or the district, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be
maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times. (Ord. 81-O-8,
6-5-1981)
9-2-9: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city subject to payment therefor by the industrial
concern, provided such payments are in accordance with article A of this
chapter. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until the
city has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Meets the requirements of section 204(b)(1)(B) of the federal water
pollution control act amendments of 1972 and all other applicable federal and
state regulations; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Has been approved by the agency in accordance with the conditions of
any grant made to the city by the United States environmental protection agency
or by the state of Illinois for the construction of any part of the sewer
system or sewage treatment works of the city. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
9-2-10: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to demonstrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the district or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the district, but no less than once a
year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the district at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the
district. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the district. At such times as deemed necessary, the
district reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewerage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite sample or whether a grab
sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended
solids analyses are obtained from 24 hour composite samples, whereas, pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.) (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
9-2-11: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewerage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 94-O-49,
9-6-1994)
9-2-12: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Entry Powers; Limitation On Requested Information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the U.S. environmental
protection agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
section pursuant to a search warrant when so requested. The superintendent or
his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The superintendent and other authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewerage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Safety Precautions: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A1 of this section, the superintendent or
duly authorized employees of the city, the Illinois environmental protection
agency, and the U.S. environmental protection agency shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death to city employees, and the city
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981; amd. 2009
Code)
9-2-13: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, if provisions of this
chapter conflict or overlap with any other ordinance of the city, whichever
imposes the most stringent restrictions shall govern. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
9-2-14: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of any
violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994; amd. Ord. 99-O-09, 2-16-1999; 2009
Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
ARTICLE A. RATES AND CHARGES 1
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Definitions
9-2A-2: Basis For Charge; Surcharge
9-2A-3: Measurement Of Flow
9-2A-4: Rates Established
9-2A-5: Computation Of Charge
9-2A-6: Audit Of Charges
9-2A-7: Bills Rendered; Liability; Late Payment Penalty
9-2A-8: Delinquent Payments; Discontinuance Of Service
9-2A-9: Lien Provisions
9-2A-10: Attorney Fees
9-2A-11: Revenues
9-2A-12: Accounting
9-2A-13: Access To Records
9-2A-14: Notice Of Rates
Â 
Notes
  1. See section
1 3-2B-12 of this code for sewer tap fees; see subsection 9-1A-3C of this title
  for water/sewer infrastructure surcharge; see subsection 9-1A-3D of this
  title for environmental remediation fee.
9-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions, in addition to those set out in section
9-2-2 of this chapter, relate to sewer use service charges:
BASIC USER CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period by all public
sewer users for payment of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement of
the sewerage works.
INDUSTRIAL USER: A. Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned sewerage works
identified in the standard industrial classification manual, 1972, office of
management and budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
Â Â Â Division A - Agriculture, forestry, and fishing.
Â Â Â Division B - Mining.
Â Â Â Division D - Manufacturing.
Â Â Â Division E - Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary
services.
Â Â Â Division I - Services.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by
the superintendent that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user that has a flow of fifty
thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average workday, or has a flow greater
than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the sewerage works receiving the
waste, or has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the "federal act", as defined in
section
9-2-2 of this chapter, or is found by the permit issuance authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on the treatment works or
upon the quality of effluent from the treatment works.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document to regulate the discharge of
pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the "federal act", as defined in section
9-2-2 of this chapter.
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other wastes on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20
pounds of suspended solids.
REPLACEMENT COSTS: Expenditures for purchasing and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the sewerage works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed.
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL OR NONINDUSTRIAL USER: Any user of the sewerage works
not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user.
SEWER USER SERVICE CHARGE: The total amount to be paid each billing period by
public sewer users including the basic user charge, the debt service charge,
and a surcharge, if applicable.
SEWERAGE REVENUE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage works.
STATE ACT: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970 1 .
STATE GRANT: A state of Illinois grant under the state anti- pollution bond act
of 1970 for financing the construction of sewerage works.
SURCHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period by certain public sewer
users in addition to the basic user charge and the debt service charge.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastewaters; the
quantity which is determined by standard laboratory filtering test procedures
and referred to as nonfilterable residue, expressed in milligrams per liter.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the sewerage works will be
operated and shall be thirty (30) years from the date of startup of any
facilities constructed with a state grant.
USER CLASS: The type of user, either residential or commercial (nonindustrial)
or industrial, as defined in this section. (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
9-2A-2: BASIS FOR CHARGE; SURCHARGE:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance plus replacement and a debt service charge, if
applicable.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Basic User Charge:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20Â°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/l).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Estimate wastewater volume.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial by volume.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Compute costs per one hundred (100) cubic feet for normal sewage
strength.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge shall be computed by
dividing the annual debt service of all outstanding debt instruments by the
number of users. Through further divisions, the monthly and quarterly debt
service charges shall be computed.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Surcharge: A surcharge levy is currently within the jurisdiction of the
North Shore sanitary district and will be levied by the sanitary district to
all users whose waters exceed the normal concentrations for BOD (200 mg/L) and
SS (250 mg/L). (Ord. 81-O-8, 6-5-1981)
9-2A-3: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
one hundred (100) cubic feet.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the building official for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required by
the building official if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the building official. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
9-2A-4: RATES ESTABLISHED:
The following are the user rates for the use of, and for service supplied by,
the wastewater facilities of the City:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Basic User Rate: A basic user rate shall be required as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this Code and shall be applied to all "consumers" of water effective
April 16, 2019. (Ord. 19-O-04, 4-16-2019)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Inability To Determine Rate:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Devices for measuring the volume of wastewater discharged may be
required by the City if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If any user discharging waste into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of said water from a permitted well water supply, all or a part
of which is discharged into the public sewers, the user shall install and
maintain, on the well water supply or sewer main, at his expense, meters of a
type approved by the City for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the user.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Following approval and installation, such meters may not be
removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The user shall pay the applicable commercial consumer rate basic
user rates as set forth above for all metered usage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Until metering devices are installed, the City may estimate, and
the user shall pay, an estimated charge for such use. (Ord. 10-O-22, 6-15-2010;
amd. Ord. 15-O-60, 10-20-2015, eff. 12-11-2015)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge of zero dollars ($0.00) per
quarter to each user of the wastewater facility of the City is hereby
established.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Surcharge Rate: The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
determined by the North Shore sanitary district. (Ord. 10-O-22, 6-15-2010)
9-2A-5: COMPUTATION OF CHARGE:
The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
Â 
CW = CD + (Vu)CU
Where:   Â 
CW     = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period
CD     = Debt service charge (subsection 9-2A-4B of this article)
Vu     = Wastewater volume for the billing period
CU     = Basic user charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
         (subsection 9-2A-4A of this article)
Â 
(Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
9-2A-6: AUDIT OF CHARGES:
The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed annually by
certified public accountants for the city in their annual audit report. The
wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in
debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs including
replacement costs. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
9-2A-7: BILLS RENDERED; LIABILITY; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Rates or charges for service shall be payable as follows, depending on
the classification of service for which bills are rendered. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-
1994; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Class          Maximum Length Of Billed Period
Â Â Â Residenti2 months
Â Â Â Commercia2 months
Â Â Â All other2 months
Â 
Notwithstanding the above designated billing periods, high volume users, as
determined by the superintendent of water, shall be billed on a monthly basis.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services
are jointly and severally liable therefor to the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the city treasurer and, at
the city's option, with the bill for water charges and rents incurred and shall
be due and payable on January 1, March 1, May 1, July 1, September 1, and
November 1 of each and every year for the period last preceding, except for
high volume users, as determined by the superintendent of water, which shall be
due and payable monthly. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In the event any person fails to pay such bill within twenty (20) days
from the date of mailing, such person shall pay an additional charge as
follows: An initial late charge of ten percent (10%) of the bill amount as a
late payment penalty; provided, however, that an additional late charge of ten
percent (10%) per month of the outstanding bill shall accrue thereafter as a
penalty for failure to make prompt payments. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994; amd. 2009
Code)
9-2A-8: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE 1 :
If the charges for such services are not paid within sixty (60) days after the
rendition of the bill for such services, such services shall be discontinued
without further notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are
settled. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-1A-8 of this title.
9-2A-9: LIEN PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Statement Of Lien Claim:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for sixty (60) days
after it has been rendered, the city treasurer may file with the county
recorder of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a
notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the city treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if his address be known to the treasurer. The failure of the
city treasurer to record such lien or to mail such notice or the failure of the
owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien
for unpaid bills as mentioned herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be pursuant to a
complaint filed in the name of the city. The city attorney is hereby authorized
to institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid for sixty (60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 94-O-49,
9-6-1994)
9-2A-10: ATTORNEY FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In addition to any sum due the city under the provisions of this
article, any consumer who fails to pay a bill within twenty (20) days from the
date of mailing shall pay any and all reasonable attorney fees incurred by the
city in enforcing the provisions of this article.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In the event the city deems it necessary to bring any court action to
enforce this article, there shall be assessed against any such consumer all
reasonable costs, expenses and attorney fees incurred by the city in bringing
the action in addition to the other sums set forth herein. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-
1994)
9-2A-11: REVENUES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the sewerage fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the city treasurer separate and apart
from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the city,
and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the
city treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at
such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the mayor
and city council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the "sewerage fund of the city of Highwood". The treasurer
shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by
applicable provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended from time
to time. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
9-2A-12: ACCOUNTING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â System Of Accounts: The city treasurer shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Annual Audit Report: In addition to the customary operating statements,
the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses
of the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that
sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact
meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Billing data to show total number of gallons or cubic feet billed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Number of users connected to the system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Number of nonmetered users. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
9-2A-13: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois environmental protection agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the city which
are applicable to the city system of user charges or industrial cost recovery
for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions
thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general
conditions to any state grant. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
9-2A-14: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this article, properly certified by the city treasurer or city clerk,
shall be filed in the office of the county recorder of deeds and shall be
deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage
system of the city on the properties. (Ord. 94-O-49, 9-6-1994)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM; ILLICIT DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose And Objectives
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Application And Interpretation
9-3-4: Administration And Enforcement
9-3-5: Minimum Standards
9-3-6: Discharge And Connection Prohibitions
9-3-7: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
9-3-8: Monitoring Discharges
9-3-9: Best Management Practices To Reduce Pollution
9-3-10: Watercourse Protection
9-3-11: Notification Of Spills
9-3-12: Violations, Enforcement And Penalties
9-3-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of nonstormwater
discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process. The objectives
of this chapter are:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To regulate the contributions of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges by any user.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To establish legal authority to carry out all inspections,
surveillance, monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall mean:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The city of Highwood building department or any
department designated by the city administrator to enforce this chapter.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. "BMPs" also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
CITY: The city of Highwood, Illinois.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre
or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which, because of its quantity, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly
contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except as exempted in section
9-3-6 of this chapter.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: Either of the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances that allow any nonstormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES: Activities subject to NPDES industrial stormwater
permits as defined in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(14).
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The system of conveyances
(including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains) owned and
operated by the city and designed or used for collecting or conveying
stormwater, and that is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. "Pollutants" may
include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Publicly owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
humanmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: A document which describes the best management
practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify
sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or
reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/
or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance,
rule, regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter
are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation,
or other provision of law, and where any provision of this chapter imposes
restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive
or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment
shall control. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the city may be delegated in
writing by the city administrator to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-5: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards. Therefore, this chapter does not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-6: DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION PROHIBITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Discharges Prohibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or
allow others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the
MS4 any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than stormwater.
The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing, landscape irrigation,
diverted stream flows, rising ground waters, uncontaminated ground water
infiltration, uncontaminated pumped ground water, discharges from potable water
sources, foundation drains, air conditioning condensation, irrigation water,
springs, water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering,
individual residential car washing, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges, and street wash water.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Discharges or flow from firefighting and other discharges
specified in writing by the city as being necessary to protect public health
and safety.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Discharges associated with dye testing. However, this activity
requires a verbal notification to the city prior to the time of the test.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the United States
environmental protection agency (EPA); provided, that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations; and provided, that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The city may evaluate and remove any of the above exemptions if it
is determined that they are causing an adverse impact.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Illicit Connections Prohibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection
to continue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Improper connections in violation of this chapter must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved on site wastewater
management system or the sanitary sewer system, upon approval of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system shall be
located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation from the city requiring that such locating be completed.
Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of
the drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or conveyance be
identified as a storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall
location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer
system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations
are to be documented and provided to the city. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-7: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the city prior to the allowing discharges to the MS4.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The operator of a facility, including construction sites, required to
have an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial
activity shall submit a copy of the notice of intent (NOI) to the city at the
same time the operator submits the original notice of intent to the EPA as
applicable. The copy of the notice of intent may be delivered to the city
either in person or by mailing to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Notice of Intent to Discharge Stormwater
Â Â Â Â Â Â City Administrator
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17 Highwood Avenue
Â Â Â Â Â Â Highwood, IL 60040
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility that is
discharging stormwater associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of a notice of intent to do so to the city. (Ord. 2008-O-22,
8-5-2008)
9-3-8: MONITORING DISCHARGES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to
regulation under this chapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has security measures in force
which require proper identification and clearance before entry into its
premises, the discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access
to representatives of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Facility operators shall allow the city ready access to all parts of
the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and copying
of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater and the performance of any additional duties as defined by
state and federal law.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The city shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility such
devices as are necessary, in the opinion of the city, to conduct monitoring
and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The city has the right to require the discharger to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and
quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to a permitted facility
is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A person
who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater
associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the
city reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting
any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises from
which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there
is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and welfare of the
community, then the city may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court
of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-9: BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES TO REDUCE POLLUTION:
The city will adopt requirements identifying best management practices for any
activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States. The owner or operator of such activity, operation, or facility shall
provide, at its own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system or
watercourses through the use of these structural and nonstructural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premises that is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and
conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater
associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed
compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a
stormwater management plan (SWMP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-10: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-11: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the city in person
or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day. Notifications in
person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to
the city within three (3) business days of the phone notice. If the discharge
of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least five (5) years. Failure
to provide notification of a release as provided in this section is a violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
9-3-12: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any
person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter
may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be
restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law. In
the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or
public safety, the city is authorized to enter upon the subject private
property without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. The city is authorized to seek
costs of the abatement as outlined in subsection D2 of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Warning Notice: When the city finds that any person has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, the city may, in lieu of a notice of violation, serve upon that
person a written warning notice, specifying the particular violation believed
to have occurred and requesting the discharger to immediately investigate the
matter and to seek a resolution whereby any offending discharge will cease.
Investigation and/or resolution of the matter in response to the warning notice
in no way relieves the alleged violator of liability for any violations
occurring before or after receipt of the warning notice. Nothing in this
subsection shall limit the authority of the city to take any action, including
emergency action or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a
warning notice.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notice Of Violation; Appeals:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Issuance And Contents:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition
or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the city may order compliance
by written notice of violation to the responsible person. The notice of
violation shall contain:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The name and address of the alleged violator;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The address, when available, or a description of the
building, structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has
occurred;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore
compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for the completion of such
remedial action;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â A statement that the determination of violation may be
appealed to the city by filing a written notice of appeal within fourteen (14)
days of service of notice of violation; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â A statement specifying that, should the violator fail to
restore compliance within the established time schedule, the work will be done
by a designated governmental agency or a contractor, and the expense thereof
shall be charged to the violator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Such notice may require, without limitation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall
cease and desist;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation
costs; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Appeal: Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the
determination of the city. The notice of appeal must be received within seven
(7) days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before
the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place within thirty
(30) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the
municipal authority or its designee shall be final.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Abatement Of Violations; Costs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Abatement Procedure: If the violation has not been corrected
pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation or, in the
event of an appeal, within seven (7) days of the decision of the municipal
authority upholding the decision of the city, then representatives of the city
shall enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any
and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property.
It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or agent in possession of any
premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to
enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Costs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation, the
owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including
administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting
to the amount of the assessment within thirty (30) days. If the amount due is
not paid in a timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal
authority or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the
charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall
constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than five (5) equal payments. Interest at the rate of six
percent (6%) per annum shall be assessed on the balance beginning on day thirty
(30) following discovery of the violation.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Suspension Of MS4 Access:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Emergency Cease And Desist Orders:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â When the city finds that any person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or that
the person's past violations are likely to recur, and that the person's
violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or threatened
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably appears to
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, the city may issue an order to the violator
directing it immediately to cease and desist all such violations and directing
the violator to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any person notified of an emergency order under this subsection
E1 shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering discharge. In
the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the
emergency order, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize harm to the MS4 or waters of the United States, and/or endangerment to
persons or to the environment, including immediate termination of a facility's
water supply, sewer connection, or other municipal utility services. The city
may allow the person to recommence its discharge when it has demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the city that the period of endangerment has passed, unless
further termination proceedings are initiated against the discharger under this
section. A person that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the city within five (5) days of receipt of
the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order shall not
be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
violator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
city may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United
States. If the violator fails to comply with the suspension order issued in an
emergency, the city may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or
minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to minimize
danger to persons.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Suspension Due To Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have his/her MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
city will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The
violator may petition the city for a reconsideration and hearing. A person
commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated
pursuant to this subsection without the prior approval of the city.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Civil Penalties: In the event the alleged violator fails to take the
remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to
cure the violations described therein within one day, or such greater period as
the city shall deem appropriate, after the city has taken one or more of the
actions described in this section, the city may impose a penalty not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) (depending on the severity of the
violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after receipt of the
notice of violation.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Criminal Prosecution: Any person that has violated or continues to
violate this chapter shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest
extent of the law, and shall be subject to a criminal penalty of seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation per day. Each act of violation and each
day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Compensatory Action: In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and
remedies authorized by this section, the city may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup or similar remedial measures.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Violations A Public Nuisance: In addition to the enforcement processes
and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter is a threat to public health, safety,
and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated
or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin,
or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Remedies Not Exclusive: The remedies listed in this section are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law, and it is within the discretion of the city to seek cumulative
remedies. The city may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses. (Ord. 2008-O-22, 8-5-2008)
CHAPTER 4
GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
SECTION:
9-4-1: Use Of Groundwater As A Potable Water Supply Prohibited
9-4-2: Penalties
9-4-3: Definitions
9-4-1: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED:
Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date hereof,
the use of, or attempted use of, groundwater from within the corporate limits
of the city of Highwood in that area of the city of Highwood as depicted on
exhibit A and further described on exhibit B, attached to the ordinance
codified herein, as a potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of
wells or by any other method, is hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly
includes the city of Highwood. (Ord. 13-O-57, 10-1-2013)
9-4-2: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. (Ord. 13-O-
57, 10-1-2013)
9-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods. (Ord. 13-O-57, 10-1-2013)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CODES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
10-1-2: Scope
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Amendments To Codes
10-1-4-1: Building Code Amendments
10-1-4-2: Fire Code Amendments
10-1-4-3: Mechanical Code Amendments
10-1-4-4: Fuel Gas Code Amendments
10-1-4-5: Property Maintenance Code Amendments
10-1-4-6: Energy Conservation Code Amendments
10-1-4-7: Residential Code Amendments
10-1-4-8: Electrical Code Amendments
10-1-4-9: Plumbing Code Amendments
10-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The following listed codes are hereby adopted as the building and construction
codes for the city for the control of buildings and structures as herein
provided, and each and all regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of said codes are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as
if fully set out in this chapter with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes prescribed in section
10-1-4 of this chapter.
Â Â Â International building code, 2012 edition.
Â Â Â International fire code, 2012 edition.
Â Â Â International mechanical code, 2012 edition.
Â Â Â International fuel gas code, 2012 edition.
Â Â Â International property maintenance code, 2012 edition.
Â Â Â International energy conservation code, 2012 edition.
Â Â Â International residential code, 2012 edition.
Â Â Â National electrical code (NFPA 70), 2014 edition.
Â Â Â Illinois plumbing code, most current edition.
Â Â Â Illinois accessibility code, 1997 edition. (Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-2: SCOPE:
This chapter shall control all matters concerning the construction, alteration,
addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy and maintenance
of all buildings and structures and shall apply to existing or proposed
structures in the city, except as such matters are otherwise provided for in
other ordinances or statutes or in the rules and regulations authorized for
promulgation under the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2007-O-27, 8-7-2007)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â While the codes listed in section
10-1-1 of this chapter have been adopted, the modifications to these codes
(consisting of certain deletions, changes and/or additions) in section
10-1-4 of this chapter still control whenever the said modifications are
applicable or are in conflict with certain other provisions of said codes and
referenced standards. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of said
codes and referenced standards and those of this chapter, the provisions of
this chapter shall control.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In all the codes adopted hereby, reference to the fee ordinance of the
city shall mean title 3, chapter 2 of this code. (Ord. 2007-O-27, 8-7-2007)
10-1-4: AMENDMENTS TO CODES:
10-1-4-1: BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS:
Section 101.1 Title. Insert city of Highwood, Illinois.
Section 107.1 General. Add the following to the section:
All construction documents are required to be signed, sealed and certified by
an Illinois licensed design professional. Construction documents, special
inspections and structural observation programs, and other data shall be
submitted in three sets with each application for permits.
Section 113.4 Time Limit. Add the following section:
All appeals shall be filed within 30 days of the plan review denial or the date
of the inspection where the work was not approved.
Section 1612.3 Establishment Of Flood Hazard Areas. Add the following to the
end of the section:
This section is not applicable.
Section 3412.2 Applicability. Insert December 1, 2016.
Chapter 35 Referenced Standards. Change the following referenced standards:
Delete the international existing building code.
Delete all references to the international plumbing code and insert the
Illinois plumbing code.
Delete the international private sewage disposal code.
Delete the international wildland-urban interface code.
Appendices. The following appendices are adopted by this chapter:
G, H105, H106, and I.
(Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-4-2: FIRE CODE AMENDMENTS:
Section 101.1 Title. Insert city of Highwood, Illinois.
Section 102.6 Adoption Of Standards:
NFPA 1, 2012 edition; NFPA 101, 2009 edition, as amended; NFPA 13, 13D & 13R,
2012 editions; NFPA 30 and 30A, 2012 editions; NFPA 72, 2011 edition; and the
2010 edition of the national fire codes, as published by the National Fire
Protection Association, are hereby incorporated into the Highwood fire
prevention code.
Section 103.2 Appointment. Delete and restate as follows:
The fire code official shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of
the city of Highland Park.
Section 106.5 Fees. Add the following section:
The fees for inspections and permits shall be as established from time to time
by the city of Highwood.
Section 111.4 Failure To Comply. Replace this section with the following:
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop
work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation of unsafe condition, shall be subject to imposition of a fine in the
amount of $500.
Section 202.0 General Definitions. Add the following definitions:
Attached Residence: A structure of two or more dwelling units, each of which
either (i) shares a common wall with one or more other dwelling units, or (ii)
has an exterior wall that abuts the exterior wall of another dwelling unit and
that shares a common roof, and for which the common or exterior walls extend
from the ground to the roof or from the roof of the garage to the roof of the
dwelling unit.
Detached Residence Or Detached Single-Family Residence: A building designed
exclusively for one dwelling unit.
Multifamily Residence: A building or portion thereof containing two or more
dwelling units, including tenement houses, townhouses, apartment houses,
condominiums, or flats.
The definition of "Recreational fire" contained in section 302 Definitions
shall be amended to read as follows:
Recreational Fire: An outdoor fire burning materials, other than rubbish, where
the fuel being burned is contained in an outside fireplace, barbeque grill, or
barbeque pit and has a total fuel area of three feet or less in diameter and
two feet or less in height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, or cooking
purposes.
Section 305.1.1 Add the following section:
Any fuel burning appliance located in a garage area of any occupancy mounted
less than six feet above the floor shall be enclosed with a one hour fire rated
enclosure with makeup air taken from the exterior, not the garage area.
Exception: Any fuel burning appliance that is American Gas Association
certified, with a safe, sealed combustion chamber (no open flame) designed with
an intermittent ignition device and make-up air taken from the exterior not the
garage.
Section 307.4 Location. Amend to read as follows:
Location: The location for open burning shall not be less than 10 feet from any
structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from spreading to
within 50 feet of any structure.
Section 404.6 Add the following section:
Review Of Evacuation Plans: Where required by the fire code official evacuation
plans shall be submitted for approval before occupancy.
Section 506.3 Add the following section:
Residential Knox Box: All single family residences equipped with low voltage
monitored fire alarm systems, fire sprinkler systems, residential elevators or
lift systems or medical alert systems, shall have residential keyed knox boxes
installed within five feet of the front doors of the residences and no lower
than five feet above the ground.
Section 603.8.1 Delete in its entirety.
Section 902 General Definitions. Add the following definition:
Significant Remodel: When square footage of the remodeling or reconstruction
exceeds (1500) one thousand five hundred square feet of the total building
occupancy, tenant or suite space. Reconstruction or remodeling square footage
shall be determined by the fire prevention bureau.
(a) The building or structure undergoes any significant remodeling, addition of
usable floor space, or change of actual use which increases the hazard level in
the building in any manner in accordance with the NFPA life safety code and the
international fire code. Any existing building or structure not exceeding the
maximum area limits of section 903 that undergoes an addition of usable floor
space, the addition area shall be added to the existing building area as to
determine the maximum area limits for the installation of a NFPA 13 sprinkler
system in the existing building or structure and addition thereof; or
(b) The building or structure undergoes a change to a more restrictive use.
Each fire protective signaling system shall be equipped with audio/visual fire
alarm warning devices located so as to be seen, and heard effectively above all
other sounds, by occupants in occupiable space within the building. The sound
level of alarm devices shall be at least 15 dBA above ambient sound level or 5
dBA above maximum sound level having a duration of at least sixty seconds,
whichever is greater, such levels to be measured five feet above floor level in
the occupiable area.
Section 903.2 Where Required. Shall be amended to read as follows:
Any new structure or significant remodel in any use group, other than single-
family residential structures, shall be protected with a fire suppression
system. The fire sprinkler system shall be designed in compliance with NFPA 13,
13R or 13D requirements as approved by the fire prevention bureau.
Section 903.2.1 Residential Fire Sprinkler For New Attached Residences. Shall
read as follows:
An NFPA 13D or 13R-compliant fire sprinkler system shall be installed in all
new attached residences.
Sections 903.3.8 and 903.3.9 Shall be added to the international fire code and
shall read as follows:
903.3.8 Sprinkler Valve/Fire Pump Room. All fire sprinkler valve rooms and fire
pump rooms shall be provided with minimum one hour separations from adjacent
uses. All such rooms shall have a low temperature alarm which transmits a
signal when the room falls below 40 degrees. A minimum of 36 inches clearance
shall be maintained in front of all sprinkler valves and shall have access from
the exterior.
903.3.9 Safety Factor Of Sprinkler Systems. All newly- installed fire sprinkler
systems shall be hydraulically calculated and maintained with a minimum safety
factor of 10 percent, except limited area systems.
Section 903.4.1.1 Strobe Light. Shall be added to the international fire code
and shall read as follows:
903.4.1.1 Strobe Light. A blue strobe light shall be installed on all
occupancies, other than single family residences, protected by a fire sprinkler
system. The strobe light shall be located directly over the fire department
connection in lieu of the previously required 10-inch exterior bell. The strobe
light shall be clearly visible from the fire department's normal access route
and shall be labeled as "water flow." The style and height of said strobe light
is to be approved by the bureau of fire prevention.
Section 1009.9 Stairways. Shall be amended to delete exceptions 1 through 4 and
read as follows:
1009.12 Spiral Staircases. Spiral staircases are permitted to be used as a
means of egress only from (i) dwelling units, (ii) spaces not more than 250
square feet (23 m2) in area and serving not more than five occupants, or (iii)
from galleries, catwalks and gridirons in accordance with section 1015.6.
For small occupancies where permitted, spiral stairs may be used as a primary
means of egress, provided that the following requirements are followed: The
minimum tread length shall be 48 inches from the outer edge to a point 12
inches from the center pole. The minimum tread width at the 12-inch mark shall
be 71/2 inches. All treads shall be identical with a maximum rise of not
greater than 91/2 inches. The minimum head room shall be six feet six inches.
Floor levels being serviced with a spiral stair that does not meet the above
minimum requirements shall be provided with a conventional stairway as an
additional means of egress.
Section 1029.5.3 Windows And Area Well Covers. Shall be added as follows:
1029.5.3 Window And Area Well Covers. Window well and area wells that are
deeper than 30 inches shall be either: (i) covered with a window well cover
approved by the building code official; or (ii) surrounded by a guardrail;
provided, however, that no cover or guardrail shall be required when there is a
terrace of a width of 36 inches or greater that is located less than 30 inches
below the top edge of the window or area well.
Chapter 80 Referenced Standards. Change the following referenced standards:
Delete all references to the international plumbing code and insert the
Illinois plumbing code.
Delete the international wildland-urban interface code.
Appendices. The following appendices are adopted by this chapter:
A, B, C, D, E, F, and G.
(Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-4-3: MECHANICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
Section 101.1 Title. Insert city of Highwood, Illinois.
Section 106.5.2 Fees. Delete this section in its entirety and restate as
follows:
The fees shall be as indicated in the city of Highwood fee ordinance.
Section 106.5.3 Fee Refunds. Delete this section in its entirety and restate as
follows:
Fee refunds shall be at the discretion of the code official.
Section 108.4 Violation Penalties. Delete this section in its entirety and
restate as follows:
Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with
any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter or repair
mechanical work in violation of the approved construction documents or
directive of the code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this code, shall be in violation of the Highwood city code and
shall be subject to such penalties established within the Highwood city code.
Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders. Delete this section in its entirety and restate
as follows:
Upon notice from the code official that mechanical work is being done contrary
to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work
shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to
the owner of the property, or to the owner's agent, or to the person doing the
work. The notice shall state the condition under which work is authorized to
resume. When an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to
give written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who shall continue
any work on the system after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be in violation of the Highwood city code and shall be subject
to such penalties established within the Highwood city code.
Chapter 15 Referenced Standards.
Delete the international existing building code.
Delete all references to the international plumbing code and insert the
Illinois plumbing code.
Appendices. Appendix A is hereby adopted by this chapter.
(Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-4-4: FUEL GAS CODE AMENDMENTS:
Section 101.1 Title. Insert city of Highwood, Illinois.
Section 106.6.2 Fee Schedule. Delete this section in its entirety and restate
as follows:
The fees shall be as indicated in the city of Highwood fee ordinance.
Section 106.6.3 Fee Refunds. Delete this section in its entirety and restate as
follows:
Fee refunds shall be at the discretion of the code official.
Section 108.4 Violation Penalties. Delete this section in its entirety and
restate as follows:
Persons who shall violate a provision of this code, fail to comply with any of
the requirements thereof or erect, install, alter or repair work in violation
of the approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of
a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be in
violation of the Highwood city code and shall be subject to such penalties
established within the Highwood city code.
Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders. Delete this section in its entirety and restate
as follows:
Upon notice from the code official that work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe manner, such work shall
immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, the owner's agent, or to the person doing the work. The
notice shall state the condition under which work is authorized to resume. When
an emergency exists, the code official shall not be required to give written
notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who shall continue any work on
the system after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as
that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition,
shall be in violation of the Highwood city code and shall be subject to such
penalties established within the Highwood city code.
Chapter 8 Referenced Standards. Change the following referenced standards:
Delete all references to the international plumbing code and insert the
Illinois plumbing code.
Appendices. The following appendices are adopted by this chapter:
A, B, and C.
(Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-4-5: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE AMENDMENTS:
Section 101.1 Title. Insert city of Highwood, Illinois.
Section 103.1 General. Delete this section in its entirety and restate as
follows:
The executive official in charge of administering this code shall be known as
the code official. Further, any enforcement officer may enforce the provisions
of this code.
Section 103.6 Restriction Of Employees. Add the following section:
An official or employee connected with the enforcement of this code, shall not
be engaged in, or directly or indirectly connected with, the furnishing of
labor, materials, or appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance
of a building, or the preparation of construction documents thereof, unless
that person is the owner of the building; nor shall such officer or employee
engage in any work that conflicts with the official duties or with the
interests of the department.
Section 103.5. Delete this section in its entirety and restate as follows:
The fees shall be indicated in the city of Highwood fee ordinance.
Section 108.5.1. Add the following section:
Every person owning or having charge or control of any vacant or fire damaged
building shall remove all combustible waste and refuse therein and lock and
barricade or otherwise secure all windows, doors and other openings in the
building to prohibit entry by unauthorized persons.
Section 109.1 Imminent Danger. Delete this section in its entirety and restate
as follows:
When there is actual or potential danger to the building occupants or those in
proximity of any structure because of the violation of any fire or other life-
safety code, thereby posing an imminent and immediate danger to the occupants
of the structure and/or those in its proximity; or any other unsafe or
unhealthful condition which may pose an imminent danger, or endanger the life
of the occupants of a structure, including but not limited to fire, plumbing
hazard, electrical hazards, biohazard, mold, mildew, filth, sewage or
insufficient plumbing and/or sanitary facilities, the code official is hereby
authorized and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the
premises forthwith. The code official shall cause to be posted at each entrance
to such structure, a notice reading as follows: "This structure is unsafe and
its occupancy has been prohibited by the code official." It shall be unlawful
for any person to remove such notice. Further, it shall be unlawful for any
person to enter said structure except for the purpose of securing the
structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous conditions or
demolishing same.
Section 109.6 Hearing. Delete this section in its entirety and restate as
follows:
Any person ordered to take emergency measures will comply with such order
forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition directed to the
city, be afforded a hearing to appeal such decision. The procedure for such
appeal shall be as set forth in section 12 of the city of Highwood rental
property safety ordinance of 2003, as amended from time to time. However,
further provided that in the sole discretion of the city of Highwood, such
appeal may be heard directly by the mayor and city council, rather than the
zoning board of appeals. This hearing/appeal procedure shall apply, wherever a
right of hearing/appeal is provided for in the code.
Section 111.2 Membership Of Board. Delete this section in its entirety and
restate as follows:
The board of appeals shall be the Highwood appeals commission as indicated by
section
2-8-1 of the Highwood city code.
Section 202 General Definitions. The following definitions are amended, added
or modified in said section:
Enforcement Officer. Shall mean any of the following: building official, code
official, health inspector, or police chief of the city of Highwood, Illinois,
or their designees, including contractors and/or consultants.
Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Insert October 1 to May 1.
Section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Insert October 1 to May 1.
Chapter 8 Referenced Standards. Change the following referenced standards:
Delete the international existing building code.
Delete all references to the international plumbing code and insert the
Illinois plumbing code.
Delete the international zoning code.
Appendices. Appendix A is hereby adopted by this chapter.
(Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-4-6: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE AMENDMENTS:
Section 101.1 Title. Insert city of Highwood, Illinois.
Section C108.4 Failure To Comply. Delete this section in its entirety and
restate as follows:
Persons who shall violate a provision of this code, fail to comply with any of
the requirements thereof or erect, install, alter or repair work in violation
of the approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of
a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be in
violation of the Highwood city code and shall be subject to such penalties
established within the Highwood city code.
Section R108.4 Failure To Comply. Delete this section in its entirety and
restate as follows:
Persons who shall violate a provision of this code, fail to comply with any of
the requirements thereof or erect, install, alter or repair work in violation
of the approved construction documents or directive of the code official, or of
a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be in
violation of the Highwood city code and shall be subject to such penalties
established within the Highwood city code.
Chapter 5 Referenced Standards. Change the following referenced standards:
Delete all references to the international plumbing code and insert the
Illinois plumbing code.
(Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-4-7: RESIDENTIAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
R101.1 Title. Insert city of Highwood, Illinois.
R106.1 Submitted Documents. Add the following to the section:
Plans for new construction, alterations, or modifications to a building or
structure are required to be signed, sealed and certified by an Illinois
licensed design professional. Construction documents, special inspections and
structural observation programs, and other data shall be submitted in three
sets with each application for permits.
Table R301.2(1) Climate And Geographic Design Criteria. Amend this table as
follows:
Ground snow load                  25
Wind speed                        90(40)
Topographic effects               No
Seismic design category           C
Weathering                        Severe
Frost line depth                  42 inches
Termite                           Moderate to heavy
Winter design temperature         -4 degrees
Ice barrier underlayment required Yes
Flood hazard                      Not applicable
Air freezing index                2000
Mean annual temperature           50 degrees
Â 
R302.1 Exterior Walls. Add the following to this section:
Exception 6. All accessory structures including detached garages.
R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. Delete this section in its entirety.
R324 Lot Drainage. Add new section:
In all new single-family home construction the sump pump shall discharge
directly to storm sewer or a location approved by the city engineer.
Part VII Plumbing. Delete chapters 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32.
Chapter 44 Referenced Standards. Change the following referenced standards:
Delete all references to the international plumbing code and insert the
Illinois plumbing code.
Delete the private sewage disposal code.
Appendices. The following appendices are adopted by this chapter:
A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, K, and Q.
(Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-4-8: ELECTRICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
Article 320 Armored Cable Type AC. Delete this article.
Article 322 Flat Cable Assemblies Type FC. Delete this article.
Article 324 Flat Conductor Cable Type FCC. Delete this article.
Article 326 Integrate Gas Spacer Cable Type IGC. Delete this article.
Article 330 Metal-Clad Cable Type MC. Delete this article.
Article 332 Mineral-Insulated, Metal Sheathed Cable Type MI. Delete this
article.
Article 334 Nonmetallic Sheathed Cable Type NM, NMC, NMS. Delete this article.
(Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-1-4-9: PLUMBING CODE AMENDMENTS:
The following sections of the Illinois plumbing code, 2004 edition, are hereby
amended as follows:
890.510 Grease Interceptors. Add the following:
Only below grade type interceptors shown in appendix E illustration B shall be
allowed for any new facility or when a change of use requires a grease
interceptor. If a below grade interceptor is not technically feasible, the
building official shall approve an alternate interceptor design and location.
Any existing facility which is required to have a grease interceptor and fails
to maintain the interceptor in good condition or modifies an existing
interceptor to interfere with its proper installation and functioning will be
required to install a new grease interceptor as required above.
890 Appendix A Table A. Table A is amended to read as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Sanitary sewer:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Outside:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1. Cast iron - service weight or extra heavy or ductile iron.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 2. PVC schedule 40 ASTM 2665.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 3. PVC SDR 26 ASTM 3034.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inside - Drain, waste and vent:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1. Underground cast iron - service weight or extra heavy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 2. Above ground:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Cast iron with hubs and molten lead joints.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Galvanized steel.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Copper, type DWV.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â PVC - schedule 40 ASTM 2665.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Water pipe:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Below grade - type K copper.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Above grade:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1. Type K or L hard copper.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Galvanized.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Storm sewer:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â A.Â Â Â PVC schedule 40 (on private property only).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â B.Â Â Â PVC SDR 26 (on private property).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Reinforced concrete pipe.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Cast iron - service weight or extra heavy duty.
(Ord. 2007-O-27, 8-7-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
WaterSense Label: Pursuant to 17 Illinois administrative code 3730.307(c)(4)
and subject to the Illinois plumbing code (77 Ill. adm. code 890) and the lawn
irrigation contractor and lawn sprinkler system registration code (77 Ill. adm.
code 892), be it hereby ordained that in the city of Highwood, all new plumbing
fixtures and irrigation controllers installed after the effective date hereof
shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated by the U.S. environmental
protection agency WaterSense program), when such labeled fixtures are
available. (Ord. 15-O-50, 9-1-2015)
CHAPTER 2
HOUSING
ARTICLE A. HOUSING STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-2A-1: Title
10-2A-2: Rules For Word Construction And Definitions
10-2A-3: Definitions Of Specific Terms
10-2A-4: Minimum Standards For Basic Equipment And Facilities
10-2A-5: Minimum Space, Use And Location Requirements
10-2A-6: Responsibilities Of Owners And Occupants
10-2A-7: Rooming Houses
10-2A-8: Unfit Structures
10-2A-9: Inspections
10-2A-10: Conflicting Provisions
10-2A-11: Penalties
10-2A-1: TITLE:
This article may be referred to as the HIGHWOOD HOUSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 94-O-
31, 7-5-1994)
10-2A-2: RULES FOR WORD CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the singular number includes
the plural and the plural the singular. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Where terms are not defined in this chapter and are defined in the 2012
international building, fire, mechanical, fuel gas, property maintenance,
energy conservation and residential codes, 2014 national electrical code, most
current edition of the Illinois plumbing code, and the 1997 Illinois
accessibility code, they shall have the same meanings ascribed to them as in
those codes. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Where terms are not defined, through the methods authorized by this
article, they shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings such as the context
implies.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Whenever the words "dwelling unit", "dwelling", "premises", "building",
"rooming house", "rooming unit", "story", and "structure" are used in this
article, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or
any part thereof". (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
10-2A-3: DEFINITIONS OF SPECIFIC TERMS:
Unless otherwise specifically indicated, the following definitions shall apply
in the interpretation and enforcement of this article:
BASEMENT: The lowest level story of any structure, which is more than fifty
percent (50%) below grade.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
DRIVEWAY: A private road that connects a house, garage, or other residential
building with a street or alley.
DWELLING: Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any of the following: code official, health inspector,
police chief or fire chief of the city of Highwood, Illinois, or their
authorized representatives.
EXTERIOR PROPERTY: The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests by
eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination methods.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or adoption, living together in a dwelling unit, or a group of not more than
four (4) persons who need not be related by blood or marriage or adoption,
living as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit, and sharing common
facilities as considered reasonably appropriate for a family related by blood,
marriage or adoption.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
HABITABLE SPACE OR HABITABLE ROOM: Space in a structure for living, sleeping,
eating, or cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or
utility spaces, and similar areas are not considered "habitable spaces".
INFESTATION: The presence, within or contiguous to a structure or premises, of
insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR LET: To permit possession or occupancy of a dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming unit, building or structure by a person who shall be the
legal owner or not be the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a written
or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to a recorded or
unrecorded agreement or contract for the sale of land.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building containing more than two (2) dwelling
units and not classified as a one- or two-family dwelling.
OCCUPANT: Any person living or sleeping in a building or having possession of a
space within a building.
ONE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building containing one dwelling unit with not more than
one "family", as defined in this section.
OPENABLE AREA: That part of a window or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or premises
which is let or offered for occupancy.
OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or city as holding title to the property; or otherwise having
control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any such
person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of any such person if
ordered to possession of real property by a court.
PARKING AREA: The area adjacent to or on the same zoning lot as a residential
building or structure utilized for the parking of vehicles for that residential
building or structure.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as a
unit.
PLUMBING: The practice, materials, and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances, and
appurtenances within the scope of the plumbing code of the state of Illinois
and/or the 2012 international fuel gas and mechanical codes.
PLUMBING FIXTURE: A receptacle or device which is either permanently or
temporarily connected to the water distribution system of the premises, and
demands a supply of water therefrom; or discharges used water, liquid borne
waste materials, or sewage, either directly or indirectly, of the drainage
system of the premises; or which requires both a water supply connection and a
discharge to the drainage system of the premises.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building or portion of a building, other than a hotel or
motel, in which sleeping accommodations not constituting an apartment are
furnished at a fee for four (4) or more persons ordinarily renting such
accommodations at a specified rate for a specified time, and occupying the
premises as a permanent place of abode rather than on a transient basis for a
short term period of occupancy. An "apartment" is a self-contained unit with
private bath and cooking facilities.
ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit used
or intended to be used for sleeping and/or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
RUBBISH: Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; and
the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matters, glass, crockery and dust.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, including, without limitation
because of enumeration, buildings for any occupancy or use whatsoever, fire
escapes, chute escapes, railings, open grade steps, sidewalks, stairways, or
anything erected and framed of component parts which is fastened, anchored or
rests on a permanent foundation or on the ground.
SUPPLIED: Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of the owner
or operator.
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: A building containing two (2) dwelling units with not more
than one "family", as defined in this section, per dwelling unit.
VENTILATION: The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to or removing such air from any space.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with the building. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994;
amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 16-O-34, 7-19-2016; Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
10-2A-4: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES:
The owner or operator of any structure shall provide and maintain said
structure with facilities and equipment in compliance with the requirements of
this article. A person shall not occupy, as owner-occupant, or permit another
person to occupy or use any structure, dwelling, dwelling unit or premises
which does not comply with the requirements of this article. Further, no person
shall let to another for occupancy any structure, dwelling, dwelling unit, or
premises, which does not comply with the following requirements:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in a safe, sanitary
and good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under subsection D
of this section) shall contain a room which affords privacy to a person within
said room and which is equipped with a flush water closet and a lavatory basin
in a safe, sanitary and good working condition and properly connected to a
water and sewer system.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Every dwelling unit (except as otherwise permitted under subsection D
of this section) shall contain, within a room which affords privacy to a person
within said room, a bathtub or shower in a safe, sanitary and good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The occupants of not more than two (2) dwelling units may share a
single flush water closet, a single lavatory basin and a single bathtub or
shower, if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Said dwelling units were both constructed pursuant to permits issued
by the city and existed prior to the effective date hereof; and that
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Neither of the two (2) dwelling units contains more than two (2)
rooms; provided, that for the purpose of this subsection, a kitchenette or an
efficiency kitchen with not more than sixty (60) square feet of floor area
shall not be counted as a room; and that
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The habitable area of each of such dwelling units shall equal not
more than three hundred (300) square feet of floor area; and that
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Such water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be in
a safe, sanitary and good working condition and properly connected to a water
and sewer system approved by the enforcement officer.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and maintained in
working order and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects and
capable of performing the functions for which such plumbing fixtures are
designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and
good working condition.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances for use and cleaning.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain, water
closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to a public water
system. All kitchen sinks, lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers
shall be equipped with hot or tempered and cold running water.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The water supply shall be maintained free from contamination, and all
water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located above the flood level rim
of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink faucets, and other hose
bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in place shall be
protected by an approved atmospheric type vacuum breaker or an approved
permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to provide a
supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices, and appurtenances in sufficient
volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function properly,
safely, and free of defects and leaks.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Water heating facilities shall be properly installed, maintained, and
capable of providing an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required
sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility at a temperature of not
less than one hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110Â°F) (43Â°C). A gas burning
water heater shall not be located in any bathroom, bedroom or other occupied
room normally kept closed, unless adequate combustion air is provided. An
approved combination temperature and pressure relief valve and relief valve
discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water heaters.
Such supplied water heating facilities shall be capable of meeting the
requirements of this subsection when the dwelling or dwelling unit heating
facilities required under the provisions of this article are not in operation.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to a public sewer
system.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall function
properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed and continuous means
of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â No rooming unit shall contain facilities such as stoves, hot plates,
other appliances for cooking or heating foods or beverages, one refrigerator
larger than 5.2 cubic feet, or kitchen sinks, whether or not such appliances
are currently connected to power sources or water and drainage facilities.
Where a rooming unit is located within a dwelling unit, no occupant of said
rooming unit shall use any area for cooking or food preparation except for the
principal kitchen of the dwelling unit within which said lodging room is
located. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Every dwelling shall be provided with heating facilities capable of
maintaining a room temperature of sixty five degrees Fahrenheit (65Â°F) (18Â°C)
at a level of three feet (3') (914 mm) above the floor and a distance of three
feet (3') (914 mm) from the exterior walls in all habitable rooms, bathrooms
and toilet rooms based on the outside design temperature required for the city
by the 2012 international fuel gas and mechanical codes.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases or lets one
or more dwelling units, rooming units, dormitory rooms or guestrooms on terms,
either express or implied, shall supply sufficient heat during the period from
October 1 to May 1 to maintain a room temperature of not less than sixty eight
degrees Fahrenheit (68Â°F) (18Â°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet
rooms during the hours between six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. and ten thirty
o'clock (10:30) P.M. of each day and not less than sixty five degrees
Fahrenheit (65Â°F) (16Â°C) during other hours. The temperature shall be measured
at a point three feet (3') (914 mm) above the floor and three feet (3') (914
mm) from the exterior walls. When the outdoor temperature is below the outdoor
design temperature required for the city by the 2012 international fuel gas and
mechanical codes, the owner or operator shall not be required to maintain the
minimum room temperatures, provided the heating system is operating at full
capacity, with supply valves and dampers in a full open position. (Ord. 94-O-
31, 7-5-1994; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 16-O-55, 12-6-2016)
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â Every dwelling unit shall be supplied with adequate rubbish storage
facilities.
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers.
Â Â Â S.Â Â Â After October 15, 1994, all rooms which are let for occupancy, and
further, which can or may be occupied for sleeping purposes, shall have a safe,
unobstructed and continuous means of egress to a safe and open space at ground
level to the exterior of the premises. Said egress shall be provided to the
immediate exterior of the premises and may be satisfied by means of an exterior
stairway, fire escape, or approved temporary chain or rope escape ladder or
escape device. This subsection shall not apply if the building in which the
rooms which are let for occupancy has two (2) separate approved exits from each
floor containing rooms for sleeping purposes. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
Â Â Â T.Â Â Â Driveways and parking areas for residential uses shall be constructed
of:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minimum six inch (6") concrete with a minimum four inch (4")
compacted aggregate base course, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Minimum two inches (2") asphalt surface course with a minimum six
inch (6") compacted aggregate base course, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Concrete pavers, as determined by the building official, with a
minimum six inches (6") compacted aggregate base course.
Any driveway or parking area lawfully existing or under construction on the
effective date hereof which does not meet the requirements of this subsection
shall be made to conform by September 1, 2017. (Ord. 16-O-34, 7-19-2016)
10-2A-5: MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
The owner or operator of any structure shall provide and maintain said
structure with facilities and equipment in compliance with the requirements of
this article. A person shall not occupy, as owner-occupant, or permit another
person to occupy or use any structure, dwelling, dwelling unit or premises
which does not comply with the requirements of this article. Further, no person
shall let to another for occupancy any structure, dwelling, dwelling unit, or
premises which does not comply with the following requirements:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The total of all habitable rooms in a dwelling unit shall be such as to
provide at least two hundred (200) square feet of floor area per occupant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain
at least seventy (70) square feet (6.51 square meters) of floor area, and every
room occupied for sleeping by more than one person shall contain at least fifty
(50) square feet (4.65 square meters) of floor area for each occupant thereof.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Sleeping rooms shall not be used as the only means of access to other
sleeping rooms or habitable spaces, except for dwelling units that contain
fewer than two (2) sleeping rooms.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Every sleeping room shall have access to at least one water closet and
one lavatory without passing through another sleeping room.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Dwelling units and rooming units shall be arranged to provide privacy
and be separate from other adjoining spaces.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Notwithstanding the minimum footage requirements herein, no dwelling
unit shall be occupied by more than one "family", as defined in section
10-2A-3 of this article.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Kitchens, bathrooms, nonhabitable spaces, interior public areas (which
include, but are not limited to, hallways, entryways, living rooms and dining
rooms) shall not be used for sleeping purposes. However, said interior public
areas may be used for sleeping purposes in efficiency type dwelling units
having no separate sleeping room whatsoever, and further provided, that said
efficiency type unit is occupied by no more than two (2) persons, and all other
minimum space requirements established hereunder are satisfied.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Habitable spaces, other than kitchens, shall have a clear ceiling
height of not less than seven feet four inches (7'4") (2235 mm). Hallways,
corridors, laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms, and kitchens shall have a
clear ceiling height of not less than seven feet (7') (2134 mm). Exceptions are
as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Beams or girders spaced not less than four feet (4') (1219 mm) on
center and projecting not more than six inches (6") (152 mm) below the required
ceiling height, provided the minimum clear height is not less than six feet
eight inches (6'8") (2033 mm).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Dropped or furred ceilings over no more than one-half (1/2) of the
minimum floor area required by this article, provided no part of such dropped
or furred ceiling is less than seven feet (7') (2134 mm) in height.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Rooms used exclusively for sleeping, study, or similar uses and
having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a clear ceiling
height of at least seven feet (7') (2134 mm) over not less than one-third (1/3)
of the required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such
rooms, only those portions of the floor area with a clear ceiling height of
five feet (5') (1524 mm) or more shall be included.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings used exclusively for
laundry, study, or recreation purposes having a ceiling height of not less than
six feet eight inches (6'8") (2033 mm) with not less than six feet four inches
(6'4") (1932 mm) of clear height under beams, girders, ducts, and similar
obstructions.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall not be less than seven
feet (7') (2,133 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a clear
passageway of not less than three feet (3') (914 mm) between counterfronts and
appliances or counterfronts and walls.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â All spaces to be used for food preparation shall contain suitable space
and equipment to store, prepare and serve foods in a sanitary manner. There
shall be adequate facilities and services for the sanitary disposal of food
wastes and refuse, including facilities for temporary storage.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â No basement shall be used in a dwelling unit, rooming unit, rooming
house or otherwise as a place for sleeping, kitchen or cooking purposes. (Ord.
94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
10-2A-6: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Every owner of a dwelling containing one or more dwelling units shall
be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof and the exterior property and
yard.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and premises
thereof which he occupies and controls.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish containers
required by subsections 10-2A-4Q and R of this article.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all his
garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for rodents in a
clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage disposal facilities or
garbage storage containers required by subsections 10-2A-4Q and R of this
article. It shall be the responsibility of the owner to supply such facilities
or containers for all dwelling units in a dwelling containing more than four
(4) dwelling units and for all dwelling units located on premises where more
than four (4) dwelling units share the same premises. In all other cases, it
shall be the responsibility of the occupant to furnish such facilities or
containers.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this article or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant hereto, except where the owner has agreed to supply such
service.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â 1. The owner of the premises shall maintain the structures, yard and
exterior property in compliance with the requirements of this subsection. A
person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy or
use premises which do not comply with the requirements of this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All structures shall be kept free from insect and rat infestation.
All structures in which insects or rats are found shall be promptly
exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human health.
After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
reinfestation.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all plumbing fixtures
therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the
exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The owner of the premises shall maintain all interior stairs and
railings in sound condition and good repair.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Every flight of stairs which is more than four (4) risers high shall
have a handrail on at least one side of the stair, and every open portion of a
stair, landing or balcony which is more than thirty inches (30") (762 mm) above
the floor or grade below shall have guardrails. Handrails shall not be less
than thirty inches (30") (762 mm) nor more than forty two inches (42") (1,067
mm) high, measured vertically above the nosing of the tread or above the floor
of the landing or balcony. Guardrails shall be not less than thirty inches
(30") (762 mm) high above the floor of the landing or balcony. Every handrail
and guardrail shall be firmly fastened and capable of bearing normally imposed
loads and shall be maintained in good condition. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
10-2A-7: ROOMING HOUSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Compliance Required: No person shall operate a rooming house or shall
occupy or let to another for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house,
except in compliance with the provisions of this article, except the provisions
of subsection 10-2A-4A.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibited In Residential Districts: It shall be unlawful for any
person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation to operate, maintain, control
or permit any structure within a residential district to be used as a rooming
house.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â License Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License Required: No person shall operate a rooming house unless he
holds a valid rooming house license issued by the city in the name of the
operator and for the specific dwelling or dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Application For License: In order to obtain a rooming house license,
the applicant shall file with the city clerk a written statement setting forth
the full name and address, date and place of birth of the applicant; or the
names and addresses, dates and places of birth of the partners, if the
applicant is a partnership; or the names and addresses of each of the
directors, officers and shareholders of the corporation, if the applicant is a
corporation; and the present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of
filing of the application. In the case of a corporation, the application shall
disclose the number and class of shares owned by each shareholder. The
application shall be in substantially the same form as is attached to the
ordinance codified herein. The application shall be signed and notarized under
oath by the applicant. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Investigation Of Applicant; Ineligibility For License: The
application shall be referred by the clerk to the license committee of the
council, who shall investigate the applicant. Further, the application shall be
referred to the code official or health inspector, who shall, within a
reasonable time, inspect the premises and report to the license committee and/
or the city council to ascertain compliance by the operator with the applicable
provisions of this article. The application shall be presented to the city
council within a reasonable time for approval by the council; provided,
however, that no operator's license shall be issued by the city to any of the
following: (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A person who is not of good character and reputation in the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of any
state or of the United States within the immediately preceding five (5) years
(unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted, within the immediately preceding
five (5) years, of being the keeper or who is keeping a house of ill fame
(unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor or ordinance violation opposed to decency and morality within the
immediately preceding five (5) years (unless pardoned).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A person who, at the time of application for renewal of an
operator's license hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a
first application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â A partnership, unless all of the partners of said partnership
shall be individually qualified to obtain a license hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â A corporation, unless all officers, managers, directors thereof,
or any shareholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the
shares of the corporation shall each be individually qualified to obtain a
license hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â A person who is an officer of the city or a member of the city
council. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â License Fee: Each application for each rooming house license or
renewal thereof shall be accompanied by an annual license fee as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Expiration Of License: Every rooming house license shall expire at
the end of one year following its date of issuance, unless sooner suspended or
revoked as hereinafter provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Display Of License: The license shall be displayed in a conspicuous
place within the rooming house at all times.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Transfer Of License: No such license shall be transferable or
assignable. Every person holding such a license shall give notice in writing to
the city clerk within twenty four (24) hours after having sold, transferred,
given away or otherwise disposed of ownership of, interest in, or control of
any rooming house, or any partnership or corporation controlling a rooming
house in which said person has an interest. Such notice shall include the name
and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such
rooming house, or the partnership interest or corporate interest. Upon transfer
of the ownership interest in or control of the rooming house, or said
individual's partnership or corporate interest, the license shall terminate,
and the subsequent owner shall apply for a new license and pay the required
fee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Appeals: Any person whose application for a license to operate a
rooming house has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the city council, under the procedure provided in subsection G of
this section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Premises Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall
contain at least seventy (70) square feet of floor space, and every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain at least
fifty (50) square feet of floor space for each occupant thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed and contiguous
means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Sanitary Conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen
and towels therein at least once each week and prior to letting of any room to
any occupant. The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of all
supplied bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings, and for maintenance of
a sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house; and he shall be
further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where
the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Every operator of a rooming house shall report, within twenty four
(24) hours, to an enforcement officer any person suffering from any
communicable disease, and such report shall be made whenever there is reason to
believe or suspect that any person in such rooming house may be afflicted with
any communicable disease, and especially with smallpox, scarlet fever,
diphtheria, measles, chickenpox, typhoid fever or tuberculosis.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Monthly Inspections; Violations; Suspension Of License:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The city shall conduct a monthly inspection of any rooming house
through one of the designated enforcement officers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whenever, upon inspection of any rooming house, any enforcement
officer finds that conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any
provision of this article, or of any rule or regulation adopted pursuant
hereto, the enforcement officer shall give notice in writing to the operator of
such rooming house that unless such conditions or practices are corrected
within a reasonable period, however, not to exceed thirty (30) days, to be
determined by the enforcement officer, the operator's rooming house license
will be suspended. At the end of such period, the enforcement officer shall
inspect such rooming house, and if he finds that such conditions or practices
have not been corrected, he shall give notice in writing to the operator that
the latter's license has been suspended. Upon receipt of notice of suspension,
such operator shall immediately cease operation of such rooming house, and no
person shall occupy for sleeping or living purposes any rooming unit therein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any person whose license to operate a rooming house has been
suspended, or who has received notice from an enforcement officer that his
license is to be suspended, unless existing conditions or practices at his
rooming house are corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the city council, under the procedure provided in subsection G of
this section; provided, that if no petition for such hearing is filed within
ten (10) days following the day on which such license was suspended, such
license shall be deemed to have been automatically revoked.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Hearings: Upon request of any license holder, the city council shall in
every case hold a hearing and reach a decision without unreasonable or
unnecessary delay. Every decision of the city council shall be in writing and
be promptly filed in the office of the city clerk. A copy of the decision shall
be sent by mail or otherwise to the appellant. All decisions shall require an
affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the city council present at
such hearing. If a decision of the city council reverses an order of the
enforcement officer, he shall take action immediately in accordance with such
decision.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Variances:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon request of any license holder, the city council may vary the
application of any provision of this article to any particular case when, in
its opinion, the enforcement thereof would do manifest injustice and would be
contrary to the spirit and purpose of this article or public interest, or when,
in its opinion, the interpretation of the enforcement officer should be
modified or reversed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A decision of the city council to vary the application of any
provision of this article, or to modify an order of the enforcement officer,
shall specify in what manner such variation or modification is made, the
conditions upon which it is made, and the reasons therefor. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-
1994)
10-2A-8: UNFIT STRUCTURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
Â Â Â UNLAWFUL STRUCTURE: One found in whole or in part to be occupied by more
persons than permitted under this article, or was erected, altered or occupied
contrary to law.
Â Â Â UNSAFE EQUIPMENT: Includes any boiler, heating equipment, elevator, moving
stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable liquid containers or other
equipment on the premises or within the structure which is in such disrepair or
condition that such equipment is a hazard to life, health, property or safety
of the public or occupants of the premises or structure.
Â Â Â UNSAFE STRUCTURE: One in which all or part thereof is found to be dangerous
to life, health, property, or the safety of the public or the occupants of the
structure by not providing minimum safeguards for protection from fire or
because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged, decayed,
dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty construction or unstable
foundation that partial or complete collapse is likely.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Determination Of Unfit Structure: A structure is unfit for human
occupancy or use whenever any enforcement officer finds that such structure is
unsafe, unlawful, or because of the degree to which the structure is in
disrepair or lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains
filth or contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this article, or because
the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Condemnation Of Structure: When a structure or part thereof is found by
the enforcement officer to be unsafe, or when a structure or part thereof is
found unfit for human occupancy or use, or is found unlawful, such structure
shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this article and shall be
placarded, vacated and shall not be reoccupied without approval of the
enforcement officer. Unsafe equipment shall be placarded and placed out of
service.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Vacant Structures: If the structure or part thereof is vacant and unfit
for human habitation, occupancy or use and is not in danger of structural
collapse, the enforcement officer shall be permitted to post a placard of
condemnation on the premises and order the structure closed up so as not to be
an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises
within the time specified in the order, any enforcement officer shall cause the
premises to be closed through any available public agency or by contract or
arrangement with private persons, and the cost thereof shall be charged against
the real estate upon which the structure is located, and shall be a lien upon
such real estate, and shall be included as part of any fine assessed pursuant
to section
10-2A-11 of this article. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
10-2A-9: INSPECTIONS:
Any enforcement officer is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections
to determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and
premises in the city in order that he may perform his duty of safeguarding the
health and safety of the occupants of dwellings and of the general public as
follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Inspection Of Dwellings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â One-Family, Two-Family And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Any
enforcement officer is hereby authorized, with the consent of the owner or
occupant, to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all one-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings and dwelling
units therein, including the surrounding premises and exterior property. The
owner or occupant of the above or the person in charge thereof may consent to
give any enforcement officer free access to such premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of inspection, examination and survey.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Other Dwellings: Any enforcement officer shall have the right to
inspect all other dwellings including those requiring a license to operate and
all dwellings open to the public for the purpose of examination and survey at
all reasonable times. The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit
and rooming unit, or the persons in charge thereof, shall give the enforcement
officer free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and its
premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, examination and
survey.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Right Of Access:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling or
dwelling unit, or its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this article or with any lawful rule or regulation adopted or
any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this article.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Where consent to inspection is not given to the enforcement officer,
he shall be authorized to seek a warrant requiring said owner or occupant to
permit the inspection. The enforcement officer shall be authorized to seek such
warrant in any court of competent jurisdiction and shall be required to
establish probable cause for inspection. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
10-2A-10: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In any case where a provision of this article is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety or health
ordinance or code of the city existing on the effective date hereof, the
provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In any case where a provision of this article is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the city existing
on the effective date hereof which establishes a lower standard for the
promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions
of this article shall be deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes
are hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in
conflict with this article. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
10-2A-11: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation violating any
provision of this article shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In the case of any violation of this article, any enforcement officer
may institute an appropriate action or proceeding at law to exact the penalty
provided above. Also, such enforcement officer shall refer such matter to the
city council. The city council may direct the city attorney to proceed at law
or in equity against any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation
determined to be in violation of this article for the purpose of ordering said
person, firm, entity or corporation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To restrain, correct or remove the violation or refrain from any
further execution of work;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To restrain or correct the erection, installation, maintenance,
repair or alteration of any structure, dwelling or dwelling unit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To require the removal of any items found to be in violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â To prevent the occupation or use of any structure, dwelling or
dwelling unit which is not in compliance with the provisions of this article;
or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Such other actions as may be necessary and proper for full
enforcement of this article. (Ord. 94-O-31, 7-5-1994)
ARTICLE B. MINIMUM LEASEHOLD REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-2B-1: Required Information
10-2B-2: Penalty
10-2B-1: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All leases and applications for leases of dwelling units shall contain
the following information, and all leases and applications for leases of
dwelling units which are newly executed and/or renewed on or after the
effective date hereof shall contain the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The specific number or address of the dwelling unit to be leased.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The maximum occupancy of the dwelling unit to be leased as
established by the owner, manager or operator of the dwelling unit. The owner,
manager, or operator shall not, however, set forth the maximum occupancy in any
such lease or lease application which exceeds the maximum occupancy for the
dwelling unit established pursuant to all applicable ordinances of the city,
including the Highwood housing code and property maintenance code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The full names and birth dates of all occupants of the dwelling unit
leased or to be leased under the lease agreement. The individual occupancy of
the dwelling unit shall not be changed without an amendment to the existing
lease agreement reflecting the change in occupancy and shall in no case exceed
the maximum occupancy set forth pursuant to all applicable ordinances of the
city, including the Highwood housing code and property maintenance code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The name and phone number of an agent of the building owner or
management who, in an emergency situation, will be accessible to tenants on a
twenty four (24) hour per day basis and capable of reasonably and effectively
responding to tenant needs in such situations.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be the responsibility of the lessor to set forth information
required pursuant to the terms of this section. Further, no lessee shall
execute a lease without first determining that such required information is
included therein. (Ord. 95-O-23, 9-5-1995)
10-2B-2: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of any
provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
ARTICLE C. RENTAL PROPERTY SAFETY
SECTION:
10-2C-1: Title
10-2C-2: Definitions
10-2C-3: Scope; Certificate Of Compliance Required; Inspections
10-2C-4: Application For And Contents Of Certificate
10-2C-5: Fees
10-2C-6: Reinspections
10-2C-7: Renewals
10-2C-8: Effect Of Certificate; Nontransferability
10-2C-9: Waiver Of Inspections
10-2C-10: Prohibited Conduct
10-2C-11: Suspension Or Revocation Of Certificate
12-2C-12: Appeals
10-2C-13: Termination Of Water Service
10-2C-14: Other Inspections Not Affected
10-2C-15: Official Records
10-2C-16: Rules And Regulations
10-2C-17: Administration And Enforcement Officials
10-2C-18: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-2C-19: Penalties
10-2C-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the CITY OF
HIGHWOOD RENTAL PROPERTY SAFETY ORDINANCE OF 2003. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003;
amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The building official for the city of Highwood or his
designee; also the code official.
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE: A certificate issued by the code official certifying
that the applicant for such certificate and/or owner of a residential rental
premises or dwelling unit, subject to inspection, is currently in compliance
with city ordinances. Such certificate may be temporary or conditional.
CITY: The city of Highwood, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
CODE OFFICIAL: The code official for the city of Highwood or his designee; also
the building official.
DWELLING: Any structure which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants.
DWELLING UNIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The permanent or temporary abode of a family, an individual, or group
of individuals.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A single unit providing complete independent facilities for the
exclusive use of the family, individual, or group of individuals, including,
but limited to, permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any of the following: building official, code official,
health inspector, police chief, or fire chief of the city of Highwood,
Illinois, or their designees. Any "enforcement officer" may discharge the
duties of the code official.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or adoption, living together in a dwelling unit, or a group of not more than
four (4) persons who need not be related by blood or marriage or adoption,
living as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit, and sharing common
facilities as considered reasonably appropriate for a family related by blood,
marriage or adoption.
GUEST: A person who is a temporary resident (less than 10 percent of the time)
of a dwelling unit and who does not utilize the unit as a legal address for any
purpose. "Guest" shall also mean a person who occupies a rental unit without
providing compensation for the privilege of occupying such rental unit.
HOTEL: A building which is arranged and designed for rooms or suites reserved
with bathroom and closet space, located on a single zoning lot to provide
living and sleeping accommodations for transient or temporary guests, making
use of the facilities for a period of less than thirty (30) days and with no
provisions in the said rooms or suites for cooking facilities.
INITIAL INSPECTION: The first inspection of a dwelling unit for the purpose of
determining compliance with the city ordinances and codes including, but not
limited to, the city building, zoning, property maintenance, fire and life
safety codes.
LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR LET: To permit, provide or offer possession of occupancy
of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or structure to
a person who is or who is not the legal owner of record thereof, pursuant to a
written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to a recorded or
unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of the premises. The term "of the
letting" shall be the period which has been agreed upon during which the rent
or other compensation is fixed and/or no further agreement or permission is
needed to remain in occupancy.
MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE OCCUPANCY: The maximum number of persons permitted to occupy
a dwelling unit as determined under the zoning regulations and/or property
maintenance code.
MOTEL: An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached living or
sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, located on a single
zoning lot and designed for use temporarily by transient automobile tourists,
making use of the facilities for a period of less than thirty (30) days, with
garage attached or parking space conveniently located to each unit, including
auto courts, motels, motor lodges or other similar type uses, and which
furnishes customary hotel services.
OCCUPANT: A person occupying a dwelling unit or using the property as a legal
address for any purpose.
OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, association, organization, firm, entity,
limited liability company, partnership, limited partnership or corporation
having a legal or equitable ownership interest in the fee title to the
property.
PERSON: Any firm, entity, limited liability company, partnership, limited
partnership, corporation, association, organization or any group acting as a
unit, as well as a natural person.
PROPERTY AGENT: A person, operator, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity designated by the property owner to the code official to manage
any residential rental property including the authority to receive notices or
citations.
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE: That code adopted in section
10-1-1 of this title, with those amendments provided in section
10-1-4-5 of this title.
REINSPECTION: An inspection of a dwelling unit to determine the landlord's or
owner's correction of ordinance and code deficiencies cited during a prior
inspection.
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY: Any dwelling unit or rooming unit let or intended
to be let to a family, person or persons for any amount of rent or other
compensation for the use of the rental property as a dwelling.
ROOMING UNIT: A room or a suite of rooms forming a single, separate, habitable
unit to be used for living, or for living and sleeping, or for sleeping, but
not for cooking and eating purposes.
STATUS REINSPECTION: Any additional reinspection of a rental dwelling unit that
occurs after the initial inspection and reinspection. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-
2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007; 2009 Code)
10-2C-3: SCOPE; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â This article applies to all residential rental properties and all
dwelling units therein that are leased in whole or in part as a rental dwelling
unit, except those properties specifically excluded. All owners of residential
rental housing properties in the city, not specifically excluded, shall be
required to obtain an inspection in order to obtain a certificate of compliance
evidencing that the premises is in compliance with the building, zoning,
property maintenance, fire, and life safety codes and other applicable
ordinances and codes of the city which are referenced codes. The code official
shall perform a physical inspection of the residential rental property
including the building exterior, common areas, basement, and the interior of
each residential unit. Accessory structures including, but not limited to,
garages and storage buildings and appurtenances such as sidewalks, driveways,
parking facilities and retaining walls, which are on the property, are
included. However, this article does not apply to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Nursing homes, rest homes, and convalescent care facilities licensed
by the state of Illinois; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Hotel or motel rooms exclusively let for short term occupancy (for a
period of less than 30 days) and otherwise regulated by the city. (Ord. 13-O-
16, 3-7-2013)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â At the time of the receipt of a duly completed initial application or
renewal application and the required verification, and the application fee
having been paid, the code official and the applicant shall schedule an
inspection of the subject premises. Provided, however, nothing in this article
shall be construed to prevent the code official from scheduling and/or lawfully
seeking an inspection of any dwelling unit where a certificate of compliance
has expired and a renewal certificate of compliance has not been issued, or
when the code official has reasonable belief that a violation of the property
maintenance code or other applicable ordinances and codes, including the
building code or zoning regulations, have been violated.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Annually, the code official shall inspect all dwelling units occupied
or held or offered for letting or occupancy within the city according to the
schedule of inspections established by the code official, unless a violation is
reasonably suspected, in which case, the code official may make other and more
frequent inspections to seek compliance with the property maintenance code or
other applicable city ordinances and codes.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The code official shall develop and maintain a citywide inventory of
all dwelling units occupied or held or offered for occupancy which, to the code
official's best knowledge and belief, is based on the applications for
certificates of compliance, their renewal, or any other reasonable information
available, and establishing a schedule of inspections that will ensure that all
such dwelling units and associated premises shall be inspected at least once
each year. Provided, however, upon probable cause that a violation exists,
where required, additional inspections may be made to take steps needed to
bring the subject building, dwelling unit and/or associated premises into
compliance with the property maintenance code and other applicable ordinances
and codes.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Where an inspection is made pursuant to an initial application or a
renewal application, the code official shall endeavor to schedule the
inspection with the applicant or the applicant's agent at a time and on a date
during normal city business hours which is convenient to the code official and
the applicant or agent. In all other cases, the inspection shall be made at
such other time which the code official establishes.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â In the event the applicant, owner or tenant of the premises to be
inspected refuses entry to the premises to the code official, or in the event
the owner or his agent is uncooperative in scheduling the inspection, the code
official may seek the appropriate warrant from the circuit court of the
nineteenth judicial circuit in Lake County for an administrative warrant.
Refusal or failure of the owner or owner's agent to permit the code official to
make the scheduled inspection shall be grounds for refusal to issue a
certificate of compliance, renewal certificate of compliance or temporary
certificate of compliance.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Inspection of the premises, to the extent reasonable and possible,
shall be conducted with the consent and cooperation of the applicant or the
designated agent.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Each inspection shall be made by the code official and shall be for the
purpose for determining compliance with the provisions of this article. The
inspections provided for in this article shall be of the mechanical, sanitary,
safety and structural components and interior and exterior, walls, walks and
driveways, parking facilities, rooms, roof and other areas open to plain view
from the ground or from the air, and all internal common areas, such as
vestibules, halls, stairways and components, and all other areas within the
structure which pertain to each of the construction elements and room
configurations of the structure being inspected, or in which the owner has an
equal right to authorize entry.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Any violations found as a result of the inspection shall be set forth
in a written notice to the owner(s) or owner's agent as designated on the
application form. A copy of such notice of violation may, but need not be, left
with the occupier or occupiers of the rental property.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â All notices under this article, including notices of violations, shall
be sent to the owner at the address stated on the application or to the person
designated on the application form as the owner's agent. In the absence of a
person designated to receive notice, the notice shall be sent by U.S. mail,
postage prepaid, to the last taxpayer of record shown on the records of the
county treasurer as responsible for the real estate taxes for the property in
violation. Such mailing shall be deemed to be service of such notice. (Ord.
2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-4: APPLICATION FOR AND CONTENTS OF CERTIFICATE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No certificate of compliance shall be issued except upon written
application fully completed on a form provided by the city. Such application
shall be accompanied by the following which shall be filed with the code
official:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A survey of the property and floor plan of the basement and each
floor of the building or structure (and each dwelling unit), drawn on plain
paper of a minimum size of eight and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x
11") and maximum size of eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17"). Such
floor plan shall show room dimensions, the total square footage designed for
living and sleeping purposes within the building and/or dwelling unit to be
occupied, calculated consistent with the property maintenance code, and the
square footage of the floor area of each room, closet and basement, if any.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A parking site plan showing the layout of any parking spaces for the
premises, spaces devoted to tenant use, and if sufficient parking (computed per
the city zoning regulations) is not provided on site for the dwelling unit and/
or the tenants residing at the premises, a detailed explanation of a parking
control plan or alternate parking arrangements for the tenants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A copy of the most current report of compliance with the zoning
regulations for each premises, or evidence that the individual has owned the
premises continuously since prior to the enactment of the 1996 zoning
regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A copy of any document of title, such as a deed or title policy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A certified copy of any land trust, if title is held in trust.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A certified copy of any limited partnership agreement or investment
or other trust agreement, if title is held in a land trust.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A copy of the operating agreement, if title is held by a limited
liability company.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A copy of any lease requested by the code official for any unit or
units on the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â A copy of the most recent alarm certification (for premises in which
an alarm is required).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â A copy of the most recent sprinkler certification (for premises in
which a sprinkler is installed).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â A copy of the most recent elevator inspection (for premises in
which an elevator is installed).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Further, such application shall contain such further information
required by the code official, including:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The full legal name; business and home address; home and daytime
telephone numbers; home and daytime fax numbers; e-mail address and federal
employer identification number of each and every owner, and/or persons holding
an interest (legal or equitable) in the property. This shall include
beneficiaries of any land trust holding title; limited partners; shareholders,
officers and directors of corporations; and members and managers of limited
liability companies. Further, the application shall include the same
information for any property manager and/or person designated as the agent of
the owner for purposes of scheduling inspectors and/or receiving notices; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The name and phone number of an owner, property manager, agent of
the owner, or management company who, in an emergency situation, will be
accessible to tenants on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis and capable of
reasonably and effectively responding to tenant needs in such situations; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The address of the property to be occupied; the total number of
properties subject to the terms of this article which are owned by the
applicant within the city (or in which the applicant has any interest), the
number of units at each premises, and whether the units are occupied or vacant
at the time of application; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The date the property was acquired; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A list of the rental dwelling units at the property, the number of
occupants of each unit and the rental per month for each unit; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The full name and mailing address of the person to whom any notices
are to be sent under the provisions of this article ("the notice address").
Until written notification of a change of the notice address is received by the
city, any notice to be provided under the provisions of this article, the
property maintenance code or other applicable ordinances and codes shall be
deemed sufficiently given if deposited in the United States mail, postage
prepaid, and addressed to the person at the address listed in that portion of
the application.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Each application for a certificate of compliance or a renewal
certificate of compliance shall be accompanied by the application fee and/or
late fee due.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The first application for a certificate of compliance, accompanying
attachments and fee shall be due within sixty (60) days of the effective date
hereof for all residential rental property presently occupied and for all
residential rental property presently held out for occupancy, or at least
thirty (30) days prior to the holding out of any rental property for occupancy
at any time after the effective date hereof.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Each application shall be signed by the owner and shall be subject to
penalty of perjury.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Each application form and certificate of compliance issued thereon
shall apply to one single tract or parcel of real estate with the improvements
thereon, and operated as one proprietary unit.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Each certificate of compliance shall contain the date of issuance of
the certificate of compliance, the name or names of the owner or owners of
record to whom the certificate of compliance is issued, the address of the
dwelling unit for which the certificate of compliance applies, the maximum
occupancy for the dwelling unit at the address on the certificate of compliance
and any and all such other information as the code official may determine. Such
certificate of compliance shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place
in each residential rental unit at all times. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd.
Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-5: FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fees Established: The fee schedule to offset the city's implementation
and administration costs shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Exemptions: Owners who own residential rental property which is subject
to the provisions of this article, but reside in their own building, shall not
be required to pay a unit fee for the unit in which they reside, as such unit
is exempt from inspection. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-
2007)
10-2C-6: REINSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â When an inspection of a residential rental property reveals any
violations of applicable codes, a compliance period shall be set by the code
official, based on the minimum reasonable amount of time necessary to correct
all violations given their number and severity. This compliance period shall in
no event exceed thirty (30) days, unless extended by written order of the code
official, in his sole discretion.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A status reinspection will be conducted at the end of the compliance
period, or sooner at the request of the owner. If the reinspection reveals that
outstanding code violations remain, the applicant shall be charged a
reinspection fee. The code official shall set another compliance date for
remediation of all remaining code violations. If previously issued, the
certificate of compliance shall remain in effect during this reinspection time
period. If, at the time of the reinspection, the code official finds that the
requirements of this article or any applicable city codes have not been met, or
that any information provided in the application is false, the certificate of
compliance shall be suspended, and revocation proceedings shall commence in
accordance with this article.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Reinspections shall be made as often as reasonably necessary to ensure
corrective action to cure any violations of the relevant ordinances or
regulations, and to bring the building, dwelling unit and premises into
compliance, and if necessary, the appropriate warrant may be sought for these
purposes based upon the probable cause or causes supplied by the noted
violations.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Individual units subject to the provisions of this article that become
vacant during the course of the year may not be reoccupied until they are
reinspected and approved for occupancy. Such reinspection shall be conducted by
the city at no charge. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-7: RENEWALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any existing certificate of compliance in good standing is eligible to
be renewed annually. Prior to the annual expiration date of each certificate of
compliance, the applicant shall submit an application for certificate of
compliance renewal, which shall include all the information required in section
10-2C-4 of this article, or a statement indicating that such information is
still current. Following submittal of the renewal application and fee, the
property shall be scheduled for inspection by the code official.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Renewal fees shall be paid at the time of the renewal application.
Renewal fees paid after the renewal date shall be considered delinquent, and
the existing certificate of compliance shall be suspended until such time as a
renewal application is made and the fee and late fee are paid. Any such
suspension shall only remain in effect for a period of sixty (60) days, at
which time, if the renewal application, renewal fee and late fee are not
received by the office of the city, the certificate of compliance shall be
revoked. Such revocation shall be automatic and shall not be subject to any
hearing process set forth herein. A holder of a certificate of compliance
revoked for nonpayment of fees and penalties shall be so notified by the city
and shall immediately cease occupancy of the dwelling unit/premises under the
revoked certificate of compliance. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-
4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-8: EFFECT OF CERTIFICATE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Once a certificate of compliance is issued, it shall be valid and
continued until the sooner of the any of the following occurs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â There is a change of occupancy of the residential dwelling unit
covered by the certificate of compliance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The residential improvements to the property covered by the
certificate of compliance are damaged or destroyed to the extent that the
residential unit is uninhabitable as determined by the code official.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The certificate of compliance is lawfully revoked or suspended.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Expiration of one year from the issuance of said certificate of
compliance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Provided however, nothing in this section shall prohibit or prevent the
city from requesting the owner or tenant in possession for a voluntary
inspection of the property covered by the certificate of compliance if the city
believes that a violation of the city's ordinance has taken place or is taking
place upon the property. Provided further, nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the city from seeking a lawful administrative search
warrant at any time circumstances exist which would support the issuance of
such a warrant.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If a certificate of compliance is revoked or is no longer valid (as
provided herein), a renewal certificate of compliance shall be obtained using
the same procedure and application fee as are required for an original
certificate of compliance.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Once issued, a certificate of compliance or a temporary certificate of
compliance cannot be transferred or assigned to another residential dwelling
unit or to a successor owner acquiring the property. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-
2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-9: WAIVER OF INSPECTIONS:
If the owner of a residential rental property is issued a certificate of
compliance for a period of two (2) consecutive years by reason of successful
annual inspections and renewals, then renewal inspections shall be required
only every other year after the third year, and shall continue thereafter on a
biennial basis. If at any time the property fails its biennial inspection, the
property shall revert to an annual inspection schedule for another three (3)
year period. The term "fails" shall be determined by the code official, where
he finds less than ninety percent (90%) compliance with all applicable city
codes in any single unit. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-
2007)
10-2C-10: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Let to another for use or occupancy any residential rental property
without a current and valid city certificate of compliance for such residential
rental property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fail to file an application required hereunder or to fail to provide
required information.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, remove, maintain, fail to
maintain, provide, fail to provide, occupy, let to another, or occupy or permit
another person to occupy any residential dwelling unit or residential premises,
property, building, dwelling unit, structure or equipment regulated by the
property maintenance code or any other applicable ordinances and codes, or
cause such things to be done contrary to, or in conflict with, or in violation
of this article or in violation of any of the provisions of the property
maintenance code or any other applicable ordinances and codes, or to fail to
obey a lawful order of the code official, or to remove or deface a placard or
notice posted under the provisions of this article, the property maintenance
code or any other applicable ordinances and codes.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To operate, maintain, offer to let or rent within the city a
residential rental property subject to the provisions of this article, whether
vacant or not, without first obtaining a certificate of compliance or a
temporary certificate of compliance as provided in this article.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To occupy a residential rental property or for any owner or property
agent to allow anyone to occupy a residential rental property for which a
current certificate of compliance or a temporary certificate of compliance has
not been issued, as provided in this article.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To offer for rent or to occupy any vacant dwelling unit or any dwelling
unit that becomes vacant property for which a certificate of compliance or
temporary certificate of compliance is required and has not been obtained or is
under suspension or revocation. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4,
2-6-2007)
10-2C-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
A certificate of compliance which is in force may be suspended or revoked by
the code official upon finding conditions or practices pertaining to a property
or a dwelling unit in violation of the provisions of this article or other
applicable city ordinances and regulations. This may include any of the
following causes:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for certificate of compliance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Conducting activities on the premises in such manner as to constitute a
breach of the peace, or a menace to the health, safety, or welfare of the
public, or a disturbance of the peace and comfort of the residents of the city,
or upon recommendation of any official charged with approving health and/or
safety requirements on the premises.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance, and/or
expiration or cancellation of the city occupancy permit.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the certificate of
compliance granted.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Violation of provisions of this article, city ordinances applicable to
the premises for which the certificate of compliance has been granted, or
regulations or laws of the state so applicable.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to the approval or renewal of the certificate of compliance,
including, but not limited to, failure to comply with all requirements of any
inspection or reinspection. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-
2007)
10-2C-12: APPEALS:
Any person notified of violations as provided in this article, or any person
denied a certificate of compliance, or any person whose certificate of
compliance has been suspended or revoked shall have the right of appeal as
provided in this section.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â When a certificate of compliance is suspended for any of the items set
forth herein, the city shall send notice to the certificate of compliance
holder. The notice shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Description of the property sufficient for identification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A statement of the reasons for the suspension.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â An explanation of the certificate of compliance holder's right to
appeal the suspension.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the certificate of compliance was suspended based upon a
reinspection failure, the certificate of compliance holder may request another
reinspection prior to revocation. If, upon reinspection, the city finds that
the residential rental property in connection with which the notice was issued
is now in compliance with this article, the code official may reinstate the
certificate of compliance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any person whose certificate of compliance has been suspended or
revoked by the code official shall be entitled to appeal the suspension or
revocation by filing an appeal with the zoning board of appeals. A request in
written form, specifying in detail the reason for the appeal (and with all
documents relied upon), shall be filed with the city clerk. The city clerk
shall forthwith transmit to the zoning board of appeals all of the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken, which
shall be sufficient to cause the zoning board of appeals to set a reasonable
time and place for the hearing of the appeal and shall give notice thereof to
the persons appealing and to the code official from whom the appeal is taken.
The board shall hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable time. At the
hearing, parties of interest may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
Except as set forth below, such an appeal shall operate as a stay of the
revocation or suspension until such time as the board renders a decision on the
appeal. The hearing shall be according to the rules and regulations promulgated
by the board. A written or recorded transcript of the proceedings shall be
maintained for the purposes of appeal and consideration hereunder.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Following the hearing, the board may fashion an appropriate ruling,
revoking the certificate of compliance; continuing the suspension for a
definite compliance date (not to exceed 30 days) with revocation being the
penalty for noncompliance; or dismissing the charges and reinstating the
certificate of compliance. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the
zoning board shall be necessary to recommend reversal of any order, decision,
or determination of the code official or to decide in favor of the applicant,
of any matter upon which it is authorized by this article to render decisions.
The board's decision shall be in writing and shall be filed with the city clerk
and mailed to the person making the appeal after the conclusion of the hearing,
by certified mail, return receipt requested.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Decisions of the zoning board of appeals dismissing any charge and/or
reinstating the certificate of compliance shall be referred directly to the
mayor and city council for hearing as set forth below. Further, any person
having filed an appeal with the zoning board of appeals and having received
findings and recommendations which such person is aggrieved, may file an appeal
to the mayor and city council. Such appeal shall be in writing and may be in
the form of a letter (which shall contain a brief statement of the basis for
appeal), and shall be filed within fourteen (14) days of mailing of the board's
written decision.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â A hearing reviewing any appeal or any decision of the zoning board of
appeals dismissing any charge and/or reinstating the certificate of compliance
shall be conducted by the mayor and city council after receipt of the appeal or
decision of the zoning board of appeals. At the conclusion of the procedures
set forth in this section, the city council may make such findings and
determination as it determines appropriate. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd.
Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â A written or recorded transcript of the proceedings shall be maintained
for the purposes of appeal and consideration hereunder. All final
administrative decisions of the mayor and city council under this section shall
be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the state
administrative review law, and all amendments and modifications thereof, and
the rules adopted pursuant thereto 1 . The term "administrative decision" is
defined as in section 3-101 of the administrative review law 2 . (Ord. 2003-O-
75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007; 2009 Code)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â A hearing officer may be appointed by the mayor, with the consent of
the city council, to conduct any hearing under subsection G of this section. In
any hearing conducted by a hearing officer pursuant to this subsection, the
officer shall, upon conclusion of the hearing, prepare a written recommended
decision that includes findings of fact and conclusions. The recommended
decision shall be filed with the city clerk and mailed to the parties not later
than thirty (30) calendar days after the conclusion of the hearing. Upon
receipt of such a recommended decision, the city may, without holding a further
hearing, either:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Adopt the recommended decision, including findings of fact and
conclusions submitted by the hearing officer; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Adopt the findings of fact and conclusions contained in the
recommended decision, modify the decision, and adopt the recommended decision
as so revised; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Based upon the record of the hearing, modify the findings of fact,
conclusions or decisions, and adopt the recommended decision as so revised.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â In all matters to be considered by the mayor and city council, there
shall be transmitted to the mayor and city council, in addition to the
materials in the subsection H of this section, the transcript or recording
required hereunder. Further, said materials may be reasonably supplemented by
such further written memorandum and written evidence as may be desired by the
person taking the appeal, the code official or the hearing officer. In their
sole discretion, the mayor and city council may require such additional
evidence or presentation before it by the person taking the appeal, the code
official or the hearing officer.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The cost of any hearing (including the cost of the transcript or
recording of the proceedings) shall be borne by the ultimate nonprevailing
party. The hearing costs (attorney fees, expert witness fees and/or other
expenses) incurred by any person or property owner at either a hearing with the
zoning board of appeals or city council shall be borne solely by such person.
The hearing costs (attorney fees, expert witness fees and/or other expenses)
incurred by the city at any hearing before the zoning board of appeals or city
council shall be imposed upon any nonprevailing person or property owner.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â A certificate of compliance may be revoked when an appeal has not been
filed within twenty (20) days following the issuance of an order of suspension,
or if the suspension is sustained after an appeal.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â A certificate of compliance shall be revoked and the rental property
shall not be let or occupied if the decision being appealed is based upon one
or more of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Structural, mechanical, plumbing or electrical code violations,
which present a substantial risk of harm to the health or safety of the
occupants or the potential occupants of the subject premises, as determined by
the code official.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The failure of the owner or applicant to provide a completed
application for a certificate of compliance or a renewal certificate of
compliance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The occupancy of the dwelling unit exceeds the permitted maximum
occupancy under the property maintenance code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â In the opinion of the code official, emergency conditions exist that
require the immediate vacating of a structure as specified in the city property
maintenance and/or housing code.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â A certificate of compliance that has been properly revoked as herein
provided shall not be reinstated. The certificate of compliance holder may,
however, obtain a new certificate of compliance after all violations have been
corrected and following the procedures for obtaining a new certificate of
compliance as set forth in this article, including the payment of all
applicable fees.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Whenever a certificate of compliance is revoked, following a hearing or
twenty (20) days after suspension where no hearing was requested, the code
official shall send notice to the certificate of compliance holder at the
address provided on the most recent certificate of compliance application on
file with the city. Said notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. In the case of revocation of a certificate of compliance for
residential rental property, the code official shall also notify all tenants
and occupants of the property by posting a notice on all entrances of the
residential rental structure. The notice to be posted and shall contain the
following language:
Â Â Â Â Â Â You are hereby notified that the Certificate of Compliance for this
building has been revoked pursuant to the ordinances of the City. You must
vacate this building within 60 days of the date of this notice. If you fail to
vacate this building you will be in violation of the ordinances of the City,
and could also be subject to fines as set forth in the ordinances of the City,
including a fine of up to $750.00 per day of violation.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Whenever an owner or property agent of a residential rental property
fails to obtain a certificate of compliance for said property with the city,
the code official shall notify all tenants or occupants of the residential
rental property by posting a notice on all entrances to the residential rental
property. The notice to be posted shall contain the following language:
Â Â Â Â Â Â You are hereby notified that the owner or agent for this building has
failed to obtain a Certificate of Compliance for this residential rental
property as required by the ordinances of the City. You must vacate this
building within 60 days of the date of this notice. If you fail to vacate this
building you will be in violation of the ordinances of the City, including a
fine of up to $750.00 per day of violation.
(Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
2 2. 735 ILCS 5/3-101.
10-2C-13: TERMINATION OF WATER SERVICE:
Termination of water service shall apply in those instances where a certificate
of compliance is revoked for nonpayment of fees and penalties. Property owners
who continue to operate in violation of the provisions of this article shall be
subject to water service termination, pursuant to procedures as set forth in
the ordinances of the city having to do with water service 1 , in addition to
any and all remedies available to the city under the provisions of the city
ordinances, state statutes or other applicable law and regulations, including,
but not limited to, the ability of the code official to cite any and all
individuals operating without a certificate of compliance as required
hereunder. Occupancy of such property shall be immediately prohibited and shall
not be reoccupied until such time as the owner is in full compliance with all
laws, regulations and the requirements of this article. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-
2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
10-2C-14: OTHER INSPECTIONS NOT AFFECTED:
This article shall not be construed to repeal other inspections required under
the city ordinances, including those required for transfer of real property, or
to restrict the authority of the city to inspect any property or to seek
penalties for violations of other ordinances or regulations of the city. (Ord.
2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-15: OFFICIAL RECORDS:
An official record shall be kept of all business and activities specified in
the provisions of this article. All applications, final decisions, permits,
certificates of compliance and the like issued by the code official shall be in
writing and shall be maintained in the permanent records of the building
department. All such records shall be open to public inspection as are
consistent with the freedom of information act of the state at all appropriate
times and according to reasonable rules to maintain the integrity and security
of such records. However, the failure of the city to maintain or produce such
records shall not be a defense to any action hereunder. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-
2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-16: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The code official shall have the power as necessary, in the interest of public
health, safety and general welfare, to adopt and promulgate rules and
regulations interpreting and implementing the provisions of this article and to
achieve the intent hereof. Such rules shall be consistent with the standards,
procedures, and requirements established by this article and shall not have the
effect of waiving structural or fire performance requirements or violating
accepted engineering practices involving public safety. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-
2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-17: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The code official may appoint and be assigned any such number of
officers, technical assistants, inspectors and other consultants or employees
as shall be approved by the city council and as shall be necessary for the
administration of this article. The code official is authorized to designate
another employee of the city as his deputy who shall exercise the functions of
his office during any temporary absence or disability of the code official.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The code official, or his designee, shall be exclusively responsible
for scheduling of inspections and issuing of certificates of compliance.
However, any enforcement officer may enforce the other provisions of this
article.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â An official or employee connected with the enforcement of this article
shall not be engaged in or directly or indirectly connected with the furnishing
of labor, materials or appliances for the construction, alteration or
maintenance of the building or the preparation of construction documents
therefor, unless that person is the owner of the building; nor shall any
officer or employee connected with the enforcement, interpretation or
application of this article engage in any work that is considered a conflict of
interest with his or her official duties or with the interests of the building
department under the statutes and common law of the state. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-
16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-18: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
By enacting and undertaking to enforce this article, the mayor, city council,
city officials, the city and its agents, and employees do not warrant or
guaranty the safety, fitness or suitability of any dwelling in the city. Owners
and occupants should take whatever steps they deem appropriate to protect their
interests, health, safety and welfare. Further, any certificate of compliance
issued shall not be deemed a determination that a property or premises is in
compliance with any city ordinance in any action brought by the city, and shall
not be admitted into evidence (except if sought or stipulated by the city),
unless for the limited purpose of establishing that a certificate has been
issued. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
10-2C-19: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation, or employee of
same, in violation of any provision of this article shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction or punishment of any person, partnership, firm, entity
or corporation for violation of the provisions of this article shall not
release such person from paying any fee due and unpaid at the time of such
conviction, nor shall payment of any fee prevent prosecution for violation of
any of the provisions of this article.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The amount of any fee due hereunder shall be deemed a debt to the city.
An action may be commenced in the name of the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the amount of any delinquent fee. All unpaid fees shall be
deemed delinquent after they are due and payable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In the case of any violation of this article, the code official or any
other enforcement officer may request the city attorney to institute an
appropriate action or proceeding in equity or at law to exact the fines and
penalties provided above. Also, the code official or any such enforcement
officer may refer such matter to the mayor or city council. The mayor, city
council, code official or enforcement officer may request and/or direct the
city attorney to proceed at law or in equity against any person, partnership,
firm, entity or corporation determined to be in violation of this article for
the purpose of ordering said person, firm, entity or corporation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To restrain, correct or remove the violation or refrain from any
further violation of this article;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To restrain or correct the erection, installation, maintenance,
repair or alteration or any structure, dwelling or dwelling unit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To require the removal of any items found to be in violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â To prevent the occupation or use of any structure, dwelling or
dwelling unit which is not in compliance with the provisions of this article;
or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â For such other actions as may be necessary and proper for full
enforcement of this article.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All remedies shall be cumulative, and the use of one or more remedies
by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy. (Ord. 2003-O-75, 12-16-
2003; amd. Ord. 07-O-4, 2-6-2007)
CHAPTER 3
APPEARANCE CODE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Findings
10-3-2: Purpose
10-3-3: Intent And Interpretation
10-3-4: Rules And Definitions
10-3-5: Appearance Review Committee; Procedures
10-3-6: Signs
10-3-6-1: Purpose
10-3-6-2: Permit Requirements
10-3-6-3: Insurance Requirements
10-3-6-4: Materials For Signs
10-3-6-5: Residential District Signs
10-3-6-6: Real Estate Signs In Residential And Business Districts
10-3-6-7: Business District Signs
10-3-6-8: Nonconforming, Obsolete Signs
10-3-6-9: Alterations, Relocation, Maintenance And Removal
10-3-6-10: Notary Public Disclosure
10-3-6-11: Temporary Signs On Right Of Way
10-3-7: Approval Of Landscaping And Exterior Areas
10-3-7-1: Purpose
10-3-7-2: Application For And Conditions Of Approval
10-3-7-3: Landscaping Approval Required
10-3-7-4: Parking Lots
10-3-7-5: Parkways And Public Ways
10-3-7-6: Refuse Areas And Mechanical Equipment
10-3-7-7: Fences
10-3-7-8: Maintenance And Upkeep
10-3-7-9: Obsolete Structures
10-3-8: Approval Of Building Facades And Exteriors
10-3-8-1: Purpose
10-3-8-2: Approval Required
10-3-8-3: Applications For And Conditions Of Approval
10-3-8-4: Criteria For Appearance Review
10-3-8-5: Maintenance And Upkeep
10-3-9: Variations, Appeals And Review
10-3-10: Fees
10-3-11: Supervision And Enforcement
10-3-12: Nuisance Provisions
10-3-13: Correction Of Violations
10-3-14: Penalty
10-3-1: FINDINGS:
The city finds that appearance and design have a direct relationship to the
economic value of property, stability, safety and quality of life. When the
appearance of public areas, business districts, and the residential districts
is good, shoppers, business owners and homeowners exhibit increased confidence
in the community. Conversely, poor appearance, congestion, and lack of proper
maintenance decrease the quality of life and property values and diminish
revenues and opportunities for the city and individuals. As the appearance of
the city is improved, the number and character of customers, investors and
visitors to the business districts will increase, and the residential districts
will benefit. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter and the appearance review committee is:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To promote those qualities in the environment that bring value to the
city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To foster the attractiveness and functional utility of the city as a
place to live and work.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To preserve the character and quality of the city's heritage by
maintaining the integrity of areas that have maintained a discernible character
or are of special significance.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To protect public and private investment in the city.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To raise the level of community expectations for the quality of its
environment.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To avoid and prevent deterioration of the character and appearance of
the city.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â To provide a favorable environment for residents and business
activities.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â To preserve and enhance the condition of the city and consequently
improve property values.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â To enhance the environment throughout the city.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â To develop and recommend standards for those seeking to develop
properties and/or businesses in the city and to the corporate authorities for
their consideration and implementation. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-3: INTENT AND INTERPRETATION:
The city recognizes that whenever any public authority legislates for the
public good, it affects private rights and interests. Therefore, the city
strives to make laws which strike a fair balance between the needs of the
community as a whole and the needs of the individual. The limitations and
requirements imposed by this chapter are enacted because the reasons for them
are compelling and essential to the future of the city. It is the intent of
this chapter to retain Highwood's cultural heritage and the traditional
excellence of its dining, entertainment and other business establishments,
while also attracting and integrating new business establishments, and to
promote the public safety, health and welfare. Accordingly, this chapter shall
be liberally construed to promote the interests expressed in sections
10-3-1 and
10-3-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-4: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this chapter, the rules and definitions contained in
this section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include plural number, and the plural the
singular.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The word "may" is permissive.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any words not defined as follows shall be construed in their general
accepted meaning as defined by Webster's Dictionary.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The section headings used in this chapter are included solely for
convenience and shall not affect nor be used in connection with the
interpretation of this chapter.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE, ARC OR COMMITTEE: The appearance review committee
of the city of Highwood, established by this chapter.
APPLICANT: A person, firm or legal entity seeking an approval or permit
required by this chapter.
ARCHITECTURAL CHARACTER: The composite or aggregate of the characteristics of
structure, form, materials, and function of a building, group of buildings, or
other architectural composition.
ARCHITECTURAL CONCEPT: The basic aesthetic idea of a building, or group of
buildings or structures, including the site and landscape development, which
produces the architectural character.
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE: A prominent or significant part or element of a
building, structure, or site.
ARCHITECTURAL STYLE: The characteristic form and detail, as of buildings of a
particular historic period.
ATTRACTIVE: Having qualities that arouse interest and pleasure in the observer.
BERM: An earth embankment that is similar to a mound; except, that it is
extended to become a linear landform. A "berm" is often combined with fencing
or plantings to create a visual or sound barrier.
BUFFER STRIP: Using plant material to buffer surrounding unsightly views or
between unrelated land uses (i.e., parking lot and cars buffered from
neighborhood parks) and/or an area of plant material used to buffer surrounding
views.
BUILDING FACE: Any building surface or exterior wall or projection that is
adjacent to or open to public view from any street, place, alley, thoroughfare,
parking lot, or way. For purposes of this chapter, a building may have more
than one "building face".
BUILDING OFFICIAL/BUILDING DEPARTMENT: The building official or designee, or
building department of the city of Highwood.
BUSINESS DISTRICTS/BUSINESS ZONING: The zoning district(s) in the city of
Highwood in which business uses are permitted, consisting of B-1, B-2, and B-3.
CALIPER: The diameter of a tree's trunk, normally measured at a height of six
inches (6") above ground level.
CANOPY: Also an awning. See definition of Sign, Marquee.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL: A certificate issued by the ARC under the provisions
of this chapter that certifies the exterior design features of an applicant's
plans as suitable and as consistent with this chapter. The minutes of the ARC
may suffice.
CITY: The city of Highwood, Lake County, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL: A material that will ignite when heated to a temperature
at or below one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (1,200Â°F) and continues
to burn or glow.
COMPATIBLE: Harmony in the appearance of two (2) or more buildings, structures,
and landscape developments in the same vicinity.
CONTINUITY: Unity of composition between design elements of a building, or a
group of buildings, and the landscape development.
DEAD LOAD: The weight of all permanent structural and nonstructural components
of a building such as walls, floors, roofs, and fixed service equipment.
DESIGN ELEMENTS: The details or components which collectively comprise the
facade, building, structure, sign or landscape plan, including the kind, color
and texture of the materials of such portion and the types of roof, windows,
doors, lights, lighting, attached or ground signs and/or other fixtures
appurtenant to same, as will be open to public view from any street, alley,
place, thoroughfare or way.
DWELLING: Any structure which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants.
DWELLING UNIT: A. The permanent or temporary abode of a family, an individual,
or group of individuals.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A single unit providing complete independent facilities for the
exclusive use of the family, individual, or group of individuals, including,
but limited to, permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation.
EXTERIOR DESIGN FEATURE: The general arrangement of any portion of a facade,
building, structure, sign, and/or landscaping, including the kind, color and
texture of the materials of such portion and the types of roof, windows, doors,
lights, lighting, attached or ground signs or other fixtures appurtenant to
such portions, as will be open to public view from any street, alley, place,
thoroughfare or way.
FACADE: An external face of a building which is open to public view or adjacent
to and mainly faces any street, place, alley, thoroughfare, parking lot, or
way. For purposes of this chapter, a building may have more than one "facade".
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or adoption, living together in a dwelling unit; or a group of not more than
four (4) persons who need not be related by blood or marriage or adoption,
living as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit, and sharing common
facilities as considered reasonably appropriate for a family related by blood,
marriage or adoption.
IBC: The international building code (as adopted by the city of Highwood).
LANDSCAPE PLAN: A detailed, scaled (example, 1/8" = 1'0") drawing showing:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Existing vegetation noting species, size and drip lines of trees two
and one-half inch (21/2") caliper and larger, with a distinction shown between
vegetation to be retained or removed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â New plant material (proposed trees, shrubs, evergreens, ground cover
and lawns), noting quantities, species (botanical and common names), and size
(in caliper or height at time of installation), and graphically distinguishing
between new and existing plant material and between species of new plant
material; all other existing features such as buildings, fences, walks, etc.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Site furnishings and specialties.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Existing site conditions.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Paving materials.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Height and location of flagpoles, signage, light standards and fences.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Screening, noting materials used as screen, height of screen material,
device or area which requires screening and height of device to be screened.
Please note that exterior areas which require screening include parking, refuse
storage and mechanical equipment.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Stormwater retention/detention areas.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â All other existing features such as buildings, fences, existing
vegetation, walks, etc.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Flow lines for drainage of surface water.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Proposed improvements such as fences, patios and walls.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â External design features, being the general arrangement of any portion
of a building, sign, landscaping or structure and including the kind, color and
texture of the materials of such portion and the types of roof, windows, doors,
lights, attached or ground signs or other fixtures appurtenant to such
portions, as will be open to public view from any street, place or way.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Logic of design.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Proportions.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Each landscape plan shall address the functional aspects of landscaping
such as drainage, erosion prevention, wind barriers, provisions for shade,
energy conservation, sound absorption, dust abatement, and reduction of glare.
LIAISON: An alderman appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the
city council, to attend ARC meetings and perform the duties designated to the
liaison by this chapter. "Liaison" shall also include any alternate appointed
to act as liaison to the ARC, or any temporary liaison designated by the mayor
or city council to attend any meeting of the ARC.
LOGIC OF DESIGN: Accepted principles and criteria of validity in the solution
of the problem of design.
LOGO: Any graphic symbol or type characters which are joined on one body as a
trademark or a company signature.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Highwood.
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT: Equipment, devices, and accessories, the use of which
relates to water supply, drainage, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, and
similar purposes.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Any building or structure which is to be newly constructed or
any addition to a building or structure, including the landscaping, parking and
loading areas and fencing and screening related thereto.
OWNER: All persons having a possessory interest in any property, premises or
sign, the business which any sign identifies, the property where said sign is
located including a leasehold interest (current or expired) or otherwise, and/
or the legal owner of the property.
PROFESSIONALLY DONE: Includes any sign, lettering, or graphic which is produced
by a sign company, design professional, or through electronic or mechanical
means. The term shall not include any sign or graphics that are lettered by
hand using pens, markers, etc.
PROPORTIONS: The balanced relationship of parts of a building, structure,
signs, landscape, or other components to each other and to the whole.
PROPOSED IMPROVEMENT: Any sign (wall, freestanding or temporary), canopy,
awning, building face, facade, landscaping or landscape plan, parking or
loading area, fencing or screening, or other item which requires consideration
and approval of the ARC.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: That land area over which the city has rights, either
through ownership, dedication or easement, to use for public street and utility
purposes or other public use.
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS/RESIDENTIAL ZONING: Those zoning districts in the city of
Highwood consisting of R-1, R-2, R-3, R-3A and R-4 districts.
SIGN: Any visible name, identification, description, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, flag, illustration, insignia, object or device
illuminated or nonilluminated and the structure displaying or supporting any of
the same, affixed directly or indirectly to or upon any building or structure,
or erected or maintained upon land or a premises, which directs attention to an
object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization, service,
solicitation or business. Any such described items that are visible from the
exterior of the premises, including those items visible through any window or
door are deemed to be "visible" as set forth above and regulated hereunder. No
"sign" shall be removed from the scope of this chapter merely by painting over
or obscuring the sign.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign which directs attention to a profession, business,
activity, commodity, service or entertainment other than one conducted, sold or
offered upon the premises where such sign is located, or within the building to
which such sign is affixed.
SIGN, CONFORMING: A sign which conforms to the provisions of this chapter and
with all applicable ordinances, rules and regulations in effect from time to
time, and shall include a sign for which a variation has been approved.
SIGN FACE: The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the message
of the sign is exhibited.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outline illuminated by electric lights, luminous tubes or any other means of
artificial illumination.
SIGN, MARQUEE: A rooflike structure of a permanent nature which projects from
the wall of a building and overhangs the public way. A "marquee sign" shall
include canopies and awnings.
SIGN, MONUMENT: A freestanding sign erected at grade level set firmly, or below
the ground surface, on an approved foundation or utilizing a short wall, and
not attached to any building.
SIGN, NONCONFORMING: A sign which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter, but which complied with this chapter, all applicable ordinances, rules
and regulations in effect at the time of its erection.
SIGN, OBSOLETE: A sign which has become no longer useful for any on site
purpose and/or a nonconforming sign which has been damaged, or fallen into
disrepair, and/or ceases to advertise or identify the business or use for which
a sign permit was issued.
SIGN, PERMANENT: Any sign or sign structure which is affixed or installed and
is intended for long term use.
SIGN, POLE: A freestanding sign erected at grade level supported by one or more
uprights (pole, pylon, standard or structure) and not attached to any building.
"Pole signs" specifically include, without limitation, pylon signs, pole signs,
blades and post signs.
SIGN, PORTABLE: A sign designed to be transported by means of wheels, a sign
converted to an A- or T-frame, a sign attached to a trailer, a menu or sandwich
board sign, or a sign attached to or painted on a vehicle parked and visible
from a street or public right of way.
SIGN, REAL ESTATE: Any sign having not more than two (2) sides which, in whole
or in part, announces the sale or lease of property, excluding subdivision
identification and tract identification signs.
SIGN, TEMPORARY ADVERTISING: A sign not requiring a permit to be issued under
this chapter and that is designed and intended to be displayed for a temporary
and short, and not permanent, period of time, and is for a special, unique,
limited activity such as the announcement of a grand opening, sale, limited
activity, special offering or event.
SIGN, WALL: A sign which is affixed directly to or painted on, or otherwise
inscribed on an exterior wall, including windows and doors, or any business,
retaining wall, or other structure.
SIGNAGE PLAN: A plan which addresses signage for the entire premises at which
signs are proposed. Such "signage plan" shall delineate the proposed sign or
signs, all existing signs, and the relationship between all signs on the
premises. Such "signage plan" shall include proposed materials, color
designations, and proposed dimensions of the sign, along with dimensions of the
premises and structure or structures upon which the signs are to be installed
in order to provide sufficient context for the ARC to review the plan.
TREE: Includes both ornamental trees, being a tree thirty five feet (35') or
under in height at maturity (example, crabapple, hawthorn or magnolia, etc.),
and shade trees, being a tree sixty feet (60') or under in height at maturity
(example, ash, maple, oak, etc.).
USE, SPECIAL: As listed in each zoning district, a use subject to special
provisions and which, because of unique characteristics, cannot be properly
classified as a permitted use.
VARIATION: An exception of the literal provisions of this chapter where strict
enforcement hereof would cause undue hardship owing to circumstances unique to
the individual property or which do not occur generally to land or buildings in
the neighborhood. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
10-3-5: APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE; PROCEDURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Established; Appointment; Terms: There is hereby established the
appearance review committee (ARC). The ARC shall consist of five (5) members
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council. The
first members of the ARC shall serve respectively for the following terms: two
(2) for one year; one for two (2) years; one for three (3) years; and one for
four (4) years. The successor of each member so appointed shall serve for a
term of four (4) years.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Vacancies And Removals:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Vacancies shall be filled by appointment of the mayor, with the
advice and consent of the city council, for the unexpired term. If any member
of the ARC fails to attend three (3) consecutive ARC meetings, or fails to
attend one-half (1/2) of all ARC meetings scheduled or called during any twelve
(12) month period, such failure to attend shall constitute cause for the
removal of such member of the ARC. Such member of the ARC may be removed either
by a recommendation by a majority vote of the remaining members of the ARC,
which recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council for action, or by
action of the city council without the recommendation or action by the
remaining members of the ARC. Any vacancy created shall be filled by the mayor
for the duration of the term of said member of the ARC, with the advice and
consent of the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Further, the mayor may remove from office any member of the ARC
appointed by him whenever he is of the opinion that the interests of the city
demand such removal. He shall report the reasons for the removal to the city
council at the next regular meeting. If the mayor fails or refuses to report to
the city council the reasons for the removal, or if the council, by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of all of its members, disapproves the removal, the member
thereupon shall be restored to the office from which he was removed. The vote
shall be by yeas and nays which shall be entered upon the records of the city
council. Any vacancy created shall be filled by the mayor for the duration of
the term of said member of the ARC, with the advice and consent of the city
council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Officers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â One member shall be elected by the committee to serve as chair for a
term of two (2) years or until his successor is elected.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â One member shall be elected by the committee to serve as secretary
for a term of two (2) years or until his successor is elected.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Meetings: All meetings of the ARC shall be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Held at the call of the chair and at such other times as the
committee may determine; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Announced by posting, and conducted and recorded in accord with the
open meetings act of the state 1 .
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Expenses: Expenses incurred by the ARC are to be itemized and shall be
borne by the city, following approval of the city council. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-
2005)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Jurisdiction:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The ARC shall be a recommendatory body only and shall have no final
authority notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary. Any
provision of this chapter which states or implies that the appearance review
committee has final authority is hereby superseded. The appearance review
committee shall make a report and recommendation to the city council in all
cases. The city council shall have final authority over all matters covered by
this appearance code. (Ord. 10-O-08, 3-16-2010)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The ARC shall have jurisdiction over:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All structures constructed or improved in the business districts
of the city (other than existing, legal, nonconforming single-family
dwellings), regardless of the use or purpose of same, pursuant to the
procedures set forth herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â All structures constructed or improved in any zoning district of
the city, used for business purposes, pursuant to the procedures set forth
herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â All structures newly constructed in any zoning district in the
city containing two (2) or more dwelling units (this excludes structures used
exclusively as single-family dwellings), pursuant to the procedures set forth
herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â All signs constructed, placed or erected in all business
districts and all residential zoning districts of the city, regardless of the
use or purpose of same, other than signage within the town of Fort Sheridan
Subdivision, pursuant to the procedures set forth herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Approval of landscaping plans required pursuant to section
10-3-7 of this chapter, pursuant to the procedures set forth herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Approval of exterior facades required pursuant to section
10-3-8 of this chapter, pursuant to the procedures set forth herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Any other matter provided for herein or referred thereto by the
mayor or city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The ARC shall not have jurisdiction over:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Structures, buildings, signage, landscaping or otherwise
belonging to, or constructed by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Structures, buildings, signage, or landscaping which would be
subject to the provisions hereof where the Fort Sheridan joint plan commission
has jurisdiction within the town of Fort Sheridan Subdivision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Any matter exempted by this chapter and any other matter not
provided for herein, or matters for which the city council has assumed
jurisdiction.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Procedural Requirements: In order to properly implement the
requirements of this chapter, the following procedural requirements shall
apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Prior to each meeting, the ARC shall promulgate an agenda indicating
all items for consideration and approval at said meeting. Such agenda shall
indicate the property address and a summary of each item proposed for
consideration and approval.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A copy of said agenda shall be distributed to the mayor, each
alderman, the city administrator and city attorney, at least forty eight (48)
hours prior to commencement of the ARC meeting at which such item is to be
considered for approval. The secretary of the ARC shall maintain a file of such
agendas with a certificate indicating that such meeting has been posted as
required pursuant to the requirements of the open meetings act and that the
agenda has been distributed as required by the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In the event an item has not been placed on the agenda which has
been distributed for approval, then the ARC may defer action on same, or make a
recommendation to the city council as set forth in subsection J of this
section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The city liaison or designee shall be designated to attend all
meetings of the ARC.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The ARC secretary shall cause the preparation of agenda, minutes,
reports, and all other recordkeeping as required by this chapter, statute or
ordinance.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Conditions: No proposed improvement shall be erected or altered until:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A permit, where required by this chapter, or any other ordinance has
been applied for by the applicant; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Approval of the proposed improvement by the ARC, as evidenced by a
report or minutes of the ARC; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Approval by the city council, where required by this chapter, of the
proposed improvement pursuant to the following provisions of this chapter; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A permit, where required by this chapter or any other ordinance, has
been issued by the building department. Any improvements requiring electrical
power shall be subject to the provisions of city ordinances regulating the
installation of electrical equipment; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Payment by applicant of the permit fees required pursuant to all
applicable ordinances; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Filing by the applicant and approval of all required insurance
certificates or indemnification agreements where applicable.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Permit Required: Applicants shall not commence construction on any
proposed improvement based solely upon the approval of the ARC. Regardless of
any approval by the ARC, the applicant shall have no vested right to the
issuance of a permit or construction of the proposed improvement until an
application for a permit has been made by the applicant and approved and issued
by the city. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Approval By City Council: Under all circumstances, approval by the city
council of a proposed improvement shall be required prior to the issuance of a
permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The ARC's approval for any proposed improvement which constitutes
"new construction", as defined in section
10-3-4 of this chapter, shall be considered only a recommendation. Such
recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council for final approval, by
motion. Only after approval of such recommendation by the city council shall
the building department issue the permit, provided the other conditions of this
chapter have been satisfied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The approval of any proposed improvement which does not comply with
the enumerated specifications of this chapter and therefore requires a
variation from the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance shall be
considered as set forth in section
10-3-9 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â a. As to any other proposed improvement which the ARC has approved,
such approval by the ARC shall be forwarded to the city council for
consideration and approval along with the report or minutes of the ARC
indicating its approval of same, if either:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The liaison attending the meeting of the ARC objects to the
proposed improvement; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The mayor notifies the ARC that he objects to the proposed
improvement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Such objection and determination by the mayor or liaison shall be
made in the sole discretion of the mayor or liaison. However, if neither the
mayor nor liaison interposes any objection at such meeting, the ARC approval
shall be considered final and forwarded for issuance of permits as required
above.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â As to any proposed improvement which the ARC has approved, such
approval by the ARC shall be forwarded to the city council for consideration
and approval along with the report or minutes of the ARC indicating its
approval of same, if such proposed improvement was added to the ARC's agenda
(required above) after the distribution of the agenda. (Ord. 10-O-08, 3-16-
2010)
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Appeals, Review And Variations: Appeals, review and variations shall be
conducted pursuant to the procedures set forth in section
10-3-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
10-3-6: SIGNS:
10-3-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
10-3-6 is to regulate signs in such a way as to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Ensure that all signs within the city will adequately identify and
promote the use while being compatible with existing land uses and/or other
buildings within the general area of the sign and/or the city as a whole.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Ensure that each business establishment within the city exhibits at
least one approved wall, window, or monument sign that will adequately identify
and promote the use while being conforming with the provisions of this chapter.
Installation of appropriate approved signage shall be a required condition of
any certificate of occupancy issued for a business establishment.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Enhance the appearance of the city and the business.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Provide a review of the sign and signage plan with regard to size,
location, color, message, construction, materials, proportion and manner of
display to fully promote the intent and purpose of this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Promote such signs that will not confuse, mislead or obstruct the
vision necessary for traffic safety or otherwise endanger the public health,
safety, morals or general welfare.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Ensure that materials and finishes shall be selected for their safety,
durability and wear as well as for their beauty. Proper measures and devices
shall be incorporated for protection against the elements, neglect, damage, and
abuse.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Provide a comprehensive signage plan where more than one sign is
requested for a business, building or premises. Toward that end, the ARC shall
consider a balance that will promote the intent and purpose of this chapter
while allowing adequate identification of the business use. The ARC may
recommend approval of multiple signs where the site conditions warrant same.
However, where multiple signs are approved, the ARC shall consider reducing the
maximum permitted size of each sign or sign type.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Provide a comprehensive signage plan for any planned unit development
(PUD). However, any such signage plan may be more restrictive than the specific
requirements provided for individual business establishments. Further, any PUD
signage is subject to review and approval by the city council and/or plan
commission in addition to review by the ARC.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Provide a signage plan that complements and coordinates with the
building, other structures and exterior design features creating a balance that
will promote the intent and purpose of this chapter while allowing adequate
identification of the business use. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-6-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicants shall not commence construction on any proposed improvement
based solely upon the approval by the ARC. Regardless of any approval by the
ARC, the applicant shall have no vested right to the issuance of a permit or
construction of the proposed improvement until an application for a permit has
been made by the applicant and approved and issued by the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â An application for a permit shall be made by the applicant upon forms
provided by the building department, shall be signed by the applicant, shall
contain or have attached thereto the following information, and shall be
submitted to the building department:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Name, address and telephone number of applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the
sign is to be attached or erected.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Position of the sign in relation to nearby building structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Two (2) blueprints or ink drawings of the plans and specifications
and method of construction and attachment to the buildings or in the ground.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â If required by the building department, a copy of stress sheets and
calculations showing that the structure is designed for dead load and wind
pressure in any direction in the amount required by this chapter and all other
laws and ordinances of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Name of the person, firm, corporation or association erecting or
designing the sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Written consent of the legal owner of the building, structure, or
land to which or on which the sign is to be erected.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â For any structure that overhangs any public property or public right
of way, a hold harmless agreement and insurance policy in a form acceptable to
the city attorney.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The application shall be supplemented by such other and further
materials as required by the building department or the ARC, including a
signage plan. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-6-3: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Amounts: No person shall erect, install, remove, rehang or maintain
over public property any sign for which a permit is required under the
provisions of this chapter until an insurance policy shall have been filed for
public liability in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
accident and for property damage in the amount of two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000.00) as herein required.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Conditions: Such insurance policy shall name the city of Highwood as an
additional named insured to indemnify and hold harmless the city from any and
all claims or demands for damages by reason of any negligence of the sign
hanger, contractor, owner, or occupant, or agents of them, or by any reason of
defects in the construction, maintenance, manufacture or design, or damages
resulting from the collapse, failure or combustion of the sign or parts
thereof.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notice Of Cancellation: The obligation herein specified shall remain in
force and effect during the life of every sign or structure and shall not be
cancelled by the principal or surety until after thirty (30) days' written
notice to the city. Nevertheless, the city's failure to cite or otherwise
compel performance of this obligation shall not be construed as a waiver of the
city's right to performance of the obligation. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-6-4: MATERIALS FOR SIGNS:
The following shall apply to material for signs:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Signs shall have a surface or facing of durable and long lasting
material. Materials and finishes shall be reviewed for their safety,
durability, and wear, as well as for their appearance and beauty. Proper
measures and devices shall be incorporated for protection against the elements,
neglect, damage, and abuse. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Wood or approved plastic as provided in the applicable section of the
IBC, as adopted by the city, or other materials of combustible characteristics
similar to wood may be permitted for design features, moldings, capplings,
nailing blocks, letters and latticing when permitted in the applicable section
of the IBC, as adopted by the city, and for other purely ornamental features of
signs in accordance with the approved rules. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd.
2009 Code)
10-3-6-5: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT SIGNS 1 :
No signs shall be installed or permitted on properties which are residentially
zoned except in accordance with the following provisions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â For each dwelling unit, one nameplate not exceeding one square foot in
area, indicating name of occupant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For a structure authorized as a "special use", other than a dwelling
unit, one identification sign not exceeding ten (10) square feet, except a
church bulletin board which shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â For purpose of orientation, direction, warning or information, not
exceeding two (2) square feet.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No electrical signs shall be erected on properties which are
residentially zoned. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 11-7-6 of this code.
10-3-6-6: REAL ESTATE SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Real estate signs shall be professionally done and in all respects
comply with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Hand lettered signs are not
permitted; except, that the address of the property and phone number may be
neatly hand lettered on a preprinted sign.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In any residential district, or for any residential property in the
business district 1 , one real estate sign not exceeding four (4) square feet
per sign face in area and four feet (4') in height to the highest part of the
sign, announcing the sale or lease of a specific property, shall be permitted
on the property but not on the public right of way. Such sign may be two (2)
sided.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In the business district, for any business use, one real estate sign
not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in area and six feet (6') in height to
the highest part of the sign, announcing the sale or lease of a specific
property, shall be permitted on the property but not on the public right of
way.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A maximum of three (3) open house signs announcing an open house for a
specific property may be placed in the public right of way no more frequently
than two (2) days in any week. However, such sign shall not be affixed to any
utility pole, municipal sign, structure or otherwise. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 11-7-6D of this code.
10-3-6-7: BUSINESS DISTRICT SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Required Signage For Businesses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each business establishment within the city shall exhibit at least
one approved wall, window, or monument sign that will adequately identify and
promote the use while being in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
Installation of appropriate approved signage shall be a required condition of
any certificate of occupancy issued for a business establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Each business premises shall display its address on the front of the
premises and on the back door of the premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Wall Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permitted Information: The information contained on a wall sign
shall be limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The legal name (or assumed name) of the business establishment,
which shall not exceed five (5) words. Notwithstanding the above, the name of a
legally established franchise may be displayed in lieu of the legal name of the
business establishment. A listing of services or goods is not permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The logo of the business establishment. The logo of the business
establishment shall be displayed so as to be subordinate in size and prominence
to the name of the business establishment. Further, the colors of corporate
logos may be required to be changed or subdued to meet the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The date the business was actually established (example,
"Established 1867").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Size, Design And Location: Any wall sign for which a permit is
required under this subsection shall comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Maximum Size:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the wall area of
the front facade of the space occupied by the business or one hundred (100)
square feet, whichever is less.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The size of the wall area used shall be determined by drawing
a square or rectangle around the lettering/logo of the proposed sign which
encompasses the entire content of the proposed sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The size of signs placed in or on windows or canopies shall
be included in calculating the maximum sign area allowed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The building face area of floors which are not occupied by
the business establishment (example, residential areas above the business
establishment) shall not be used to compute the wall area of the front facade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Orientation And Location:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Shall be permitted only on the front facade of a building or
upon such other facade of a building:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â Which is adjacent to and mainly faces a street,
thoroughfare, or parking lot used for customers of the building, and which lot
is part of a planned unit development for the parcel upon which the sign is to
be located; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Which is adjacent to and mainly faces a street,
thoroughfare, or parking lot used for customers of the building, and which lot
is under common ownership with the parcel upon which the sign is to be located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Such sign may not be located on any other facade of a
building, including a facade which mainly faces an alley.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number Of Facades: Wall signs identifying the business use of a
premises shall be permitted only upon one of the facades as set forth in
subsection B2b of this section unless a variation is obtained.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Preferred Design Criteria: For any premises, the ARC shall
consider the following preferred design criteria in considering the approval or
recommendation for approval of any sign:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Illuminated "box signs" are not permitted. However,
illuminated "box signs" may be approved in certain exceptional circumstances
where they are deemed to be appropriate due to the location of the sign or
unique site characteristics.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Signs with individually cut, opaque, raised letters on
raceways and illuminated through the use of back lighting (reverse channel
letters) are preferred. Internal illumination of individual letters and/or
logos is not preferred, but may be considered where appropriate. However,
illumination levels shall be regulated to ensure that the illumination is
appropriate in light of the proposed signage, site, and adjoining properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Signage coloring shall complement the development and other
signage within the business district. Neon colors and bright colors are not
preferred, but may be permitted where they are found to enhance a design
element or otherwise are found to be appropriate due to unique site conditions.
In general, signage colors shall be complementary with the proposed
development. White, earth, bronze, gold or other subdued color tones for signs,
lettering and logos are preferred.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The ARC may consider allowing corporate logos where
appropriate. However, the colors of corporate logos may be required to be
changed or subdued to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter and color
requirements set forth above.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â While signage identifying the business is limited as set
forth herein, limited additional design elements may be permitted on any
structure where determined appropriate by the ARC, in the exercise of its
discretion, subject to review and approval by the city council. Such design
elements may include decorative murals, which do not specifically identify the
business, lettering, phrases, decorative etchings, woodwork and/or public art
which is intended to enhance the visual appeal of a structure or premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Shape And Color: The shape of all signs shall relate to the
building facade, facade of adjacent buildings, and to the signs on adjacent
buildings, if applicable. The coloring of wall signs shall be consistent
throughout the sign utilizing complementary tones and shades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Construction Requirements: Any wall sign for which a permit is
required under this subsection shall comply with the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Materials: Shall have a surface or facing of durable material,
and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of section
10-3-6-4 of this chapter. Materials and finishes shall be reviewed for their
safety, durability, and wear, as well as for their appearance and beauty.
Proper measures and devices shall be incorporated for protection against the
elements, neglect, damage, and abuse.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Supports And Anchorage: Shall be attached directly to exterior
walls of solid masonry or concrete, and shall be safely and securely attached
to the same by means of metal anchors, bolts, or expansion screws. No wooden
blocks or anchorage with wood used in connection with screws or nails shall be
considered proper anchorage, except in the case of wall signs attached to
buildings with permitted walls of wood. No wall sign shall be entirely
supported by an unbraced parapet wall but must be attached to parapet walls or
other wall surfaces made a part of the main structure. Signs erected on a
separate superstructure attached to the roof of the building or to any other
part of the building above the roofline shall not be permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Attachment To Wall Surface: If attached to a building or
premises, shall be erected parallel to the vertical wall surface and shall not
project more than twelve inches (12") from the wall upon which it is attached,
nor project beyond the end or top of the wall to which it is attached. (Ord.
2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Illuminated Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â All electrically illuminated signs shall be approved as to
electric wiring and devices by the building department, and all wiring and
accessory electrical equipment shall conform to the requirements of the
national electrical code as adopted by the city. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd.
2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Electrical permits are required for the erection or
maintenance of illuminated signs. (Note: No permit is required to replace or
reletter an illuminated sign unless the replacement or relettering requires a
change in wiring or piping.) (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â All wall signs, whether indoors or outdoors, shall be subject
to the following restrictions regarding illumination:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â A sign shall not be illuminated by other than electrical
means, and electrical devices and wiring shall be installed in accordance with
the requirements of the national electrical code as adopted by the city. (Ord.
2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Any lighting shall be placed on the same property as the
wall sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (C)Â Â Â No LCD/plasma displays, blinking, flashing, fluttering or
other illuminating device, nor any illumination which has a change in light
intensity, brightness or color shall be permitted. (This prohibition is not
intended to apply to any approved time/temperature sign nor to seasonal holiday
lighting.)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Safety And Design Concerns: No sign shall be located, erected,
altered or maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape, or any window, or
door, or opening used as a means of egress, or for firefighting purposes, or so
as to prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part thereof.
No sign shall be attached in any form, shape or manner to a fire escape or be
so placed as to interfere with any opening required by law for ventilation.
(Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Servicing Devices: Ladders, platforms, hooks, rigs and all other
devices for the use of servicing personnel shall have safety devices and design
loading in accordance with the safety requirements in the IBC as adopted by the
city. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Monument/Freestanding Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permitted Information: Unless otherwise permitted below, the
information contained on monument/freestanding signs shall be limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The legal name (or assumed name) of the business establishment,
which shall not exceed five (5) words. Notwithstanding the above, the name of a
legally established franchise may be displayed in lieu of the legal name of the
business establishment. A listing of services or goods is not permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The logo of the business establishment. The logo of the business
establishment shall be displayed so as to be subordinate in size and prominence
to the name of the business establishment. Further, the colors of corporate
logos may be required to be changed or subdued to meet the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The date the business was actually established (example,
"Established 1867").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Size, Design And Location: All signs for which a permit is required
under this subsection shall comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Monument Signs: Monument signs may be permitted as part of an
overall signage plan and shall comply with the following specific requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â No more than one monument sign shall be allowed per lot or
per development, whichever is less. Further provided, that where a development
or integrated shopping center under single ownership or unified control has
separate and distinct entrance drives, up to two (2) monument signs may be
erected. However, the total surface area of the combined signs may not exceed
three percent (3%) of the front facade, and no sign may exceed thirty six (36)
square feet per sign face.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The total surface area of said sign shall not exceed the
greater of thirty six (36) square feet or three percent (3%) of the front
facade of the building. However, in no event shall any single sign exceed sixty
(60) square feet per sign face.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Said sign shall not exceed six feet (6') in height, including
any foundation and supporting structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Said sign shall not exceed eight feet (8') in length,
including any foundation and supporting structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Said sign shall be in proportion to the building and
development. The maximum sizes set forth herein may be reduced considering the
size of the buildings or structures and other permitted signage. The design and
shape of any approved monument signs shall relate to the building facade,
facade of adjacent buildings, and to the signs on adjacent buildings, if
applicable. The coloring of monument signs shall be consistent throughout
utilizing complementary tones and shades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Notwithstanding the above, the monument sign shall be
planned, constructed and located so as to provide for the safety of pedestrians
and traffic in the areas adjacent to the sign, and such sign shall not obstruct
the view of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Further provided, that if approval is granted as set forth
above for integrated shopping centers under single ownership or under unified
control, the sign shall contain only the name and location of the integrated
shopping center. However, if requested by the applicant, the ARC may consider
including the name of all of the occupants of the center. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-
2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â As to any monument sign for which a permit was issued prior
to October 1, 2000, and which may be made nonconforming by the size provisions
of this subsection, such sign may be repaired and maintained (subject to ARC
review) despite the fact that the sign may exceed the maximum size provisions
set forth above. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Such monument sign shall not have more than two (2) faces.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Prohibited Types: Pole signs, clocks, or other advertising
devices erected upon poles, pylons, standards or separate supports are
prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Location: Monument signs shall be permitted only in the front
yard of the premises. Such sign may not be located in any other yard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Preferred Design Criteria: For any premises, the ARC shall
consider the following preferred design criteria in considering the approval or
recommendation for approval of any sign:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Illuminated "box signs" are not permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Signs with individually cut, opaque, raised letters on
raceways and illuminated with back lighting (reverse channel) are preferred.
Internal illumination of individual letters and/or logos is not preferred, but
may be considered where appropriate. However, illumination levels shall be
regulated to ensure that the illumination is appropriate in light of the
proposed signage, site, and adjoining properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Signage coloring shall complement the development and other
signage within the business district. Neon colors and bright colors are not
preferred, but may be permitted where they are found to enhance a design
element or otherwise are found to be appropriate due to unique site conditions.
In general, signage colors shall be complementary with the proposed
development. White, earth, bronze, gold or other subdued color tones for signs,
lettering and logos are preferred.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The ARC may consider allowing corporate logos where
appropriate. However, the colors of corporate logos may be required to be
changed or subdued to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter and color
requirements set forth above.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â While signage identifying the business is limited as set
forth herein, limited additional design elements may be permitted on any
structure where determined appropriate by the ARC, in its discretion, subject
to review and approval by the city council. Such design elements may include
decorative murals, which do not specifically identify the business, decorative
etchings, woodwork and/or public art which are intended to enhance the visual
appeal of a structure or premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Vision Obstruction: In no event shall any sign be placed or
maintained in a location relative to a public or private street, alley,
driveway or other means of ingress or egress such that the sight of oncoming
vehicular or pedestrian traffic is impaired for users of such means of ingress
and egress.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Shape And Color: The shape of the sign shall relate to the
building facade, facade of adjacent buildings, and to the signs on adjacent
buildings, if applicable. The coloring of signs shall be consistent throughout
the sign utilizing complementary tones and shades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Construction Requirements: All signs for which a permit is required
under this subsection shall comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Materials: Shall have a surface or facing of noncombustible
material (except as set forth in section
10-3-6-4 of this chapter). Materials and finishes shall be reviewed for their
safety, durability, and wear, as well as for their appearance and beauty.
Proper measures and devices shall be incorporated for protection against the
elements, neglect, damage, and abuse. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Supports And Anchorage: Shall comply with the provisions of the
IBC, as amended, adopted by the city, which provisions are incorporated herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Illumination:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â All electrically illuminated signs shall be approved as to
electric wiring and devices by the building department, and all wiring and
accessory electrical equipment shall conform to the requirements of the
national electrical code as adopted by the city. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd.
2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Electrical permits are required for the erection or
maintenance of illuminated signs. (Note: No permit is required to replace or
reletter an illuminated sign unless the replacement or relettering requires a
change in wiring or piping). (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â All monument/freestanding signs within the city shall be
subject to the following restrictions regarding illumination:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â A sign shall not be illuminated by other than electrical
means, and electrical devices and wiring shall be installed in accordance with
the requirements of the national electrical code as adopted by the city. (Ord.
2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â Any lighting shall be placed on the same property as the
sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (C)Â Â Â No LCD/plasma displays, blinking, flashing or fluttering
or other illuminating device, nor any illumination which has a change in light
intensity, brightness or color shall be permitted. (This prohibition is not
intended to apply to any approved time/temperature sign nor to seasonal holiday
lighting.)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Safety And Design Concerns: No sign shall be located, erected,
altered or maintained so as to obstruct any fire escape, or any window, or
door, or opening used as a means of egress, or for firefighting purposes, or so
as to prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part thereof.
No sign shall be attached in any form, shape or manner to a fire escape or be
so placed as to interfere with any opening required by law for ventilation.
(Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Servicing Devices: Ladders, platforms, hooks, rigs and all other
devices for the use of servicing personnel shall have safety devices and design
loading in accordance with the safety requirements in the IBC as adopted by the
city. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Window Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Requirements: If approved, signs may be placed in or on
windows or glass pane doors. However, the size of such sign shall be included
in calculating the maximum sign area allowed for all other signage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Permitted Information: Unless otherwise permitted below, the
information contained on window signs shall be limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The legal name (or assumed name) of the business establishment,
which shall not exceed five (5) words. Notwithstanding the above, the name of
any practicing licensed professional or legally established franchise may be
displayed in lieu of the legal name of the business establishment. A listing of
services or goods is not permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The logo of the business establishment. The logo of the business
establishment shall be displayed so as to be subordinate in size and prominence
to the name of the business establishment. Further, the colors of corporate
logos may be required to be changed or subdued to meet the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The date the business was actually established (example,
"Established 1867").
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the
contrary, any window sign for which a permit is sought may contain one
telephone number and area code of the business establishment; provided, that
there is compliance with the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â No more than one telephone number (including area code) and/
or internet address may be allowed for each business establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The above shall be in letters or numbers not exceeding four
inches (4") in height.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â If installed on a windowpane, the top edge of the letters or
numbers must be no higher than forty eight inches (48") above ground level on
the first floor and no higher than twelve feet (12') from the bottom edge of
the windowpane on the second floor or above, and if on a glass door, no higher
than forty eight inches (48") above floor level in front of the door.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The above shall be permitted only on a windowpane or glass
door, and is not permitted on any other sign, wall sign, marquee or
freestanding sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Size, Design And Location: Any window sign for which a permit is
required under this subsection shall comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Maximum Size: Window and wall signs combined shall not exceed
fifteen percent (15%) of the wall area of the front facade of the space
occupied by the business or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less.
As to window signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The size of the sign area used shall be determined by drawing
a square or rectangle around the lettering/logo of the proposed sign which
encompasses the entire content of the proposed sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The size of signs placed in or on walls or canopies shall be
included in calculating the maximum sign area allowed for all signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The building face area of floors which are not occupied by
the business establishment (example, residential areas above the business
establishment) shall not be used to compute the wall area of the front facade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Location: Window signs shall be permitted only on the front
window of a building, unless a variation is obtained.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Preferred Design Criteria: For any premises, the ARC shall
consider the following preferred design criteria in considering the approval or
recommendation for approval of any sign:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Illumination levels shall be regulated to ensure that the
illumination is appropriate in light of the proposed signage, site, and
adjoining properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Signage coloring shall complement the development and other
signage within the business district. Neon colors and bright colors are not
preferred, but may be permitted where they are found to enhance a design
element or otherwise are found to be appropriate due to unique site conditions.
In general, signage colors shall be complementary with the proposed
development. White, earth, bronze, gold or other subdued color tones for signs,
lettering and logos are preferred.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The ARC may consider allowing corporate logos where
appropriate. However, the colors of corporate logos may be required to be
changed or subdued to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter and color
requirements set forth above.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Shape And Color: The shape of window signs shall relate to the
building facade, facade of adjacent buildings, and to the signs on adjacent
buildings, if applicable. The coloring of window signs shall be consistent
throughout utilizing complementary tones and shades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Compliance Required: In all other respects the sign must comply
with all other requirements of this chapter and the ordinances of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Professional Appearance: All window signs shall be professionally
done and in all respects comply with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
Hand lettered signs are not permitted.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Other Signs And Regulations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Neon Advertising Signs: If approved, one neon advertising sign may
be allowed on each building face. Any such sign shall not exceed four (4)
square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Governmental Or Public Utility Signs: Signs erected by the city,
signs for control of or to provide information regarding traffic and other
governmental regulatory purposes (e.g., street signs, danger signs, railroad
crossing signs, and signs of public service companies indicating danger and
aids to service or safety which are erected by or on the order of a public
officer in the performance of his or her public duty) shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Marquee Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Signs attached to or hung from a marquee, canopy or awning may be
permitted to supplement and/or be in lieu of other signage, and shall be
completely within the borderline of the outer edge of the marquee or canopy,
and shall in no instance be lower than eight feet (8') above the ground or
surface over which the marquee or canopy is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The shape of all such signs shall relate to the building facade,
facade of adjacent buildings, and to the signs on adjacent buildings, if
applicable. The color of such signs shall be consistent throughout and utilize
complementary tones and shades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Awning And Canopy Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Signs on awning(s) or canopies may be permitted to supplement
and/or be in lieu of other signage; provided, that the size of letters on such
awnings shall not exceed eight inches (8") in height.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The shape of all awning signs shall relate to the building
facade, facade of adjacent buildings, and to the awning signs on adjacent
buildings, if applicable. The coloring of awning signs shall be consistent
throughout the awning utilizing complementary tones and shades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Miscellaneous Signs: Other signs proposed to be erected by any
person, other than the city, in the business district, including parking lot
signage, signs for control of or to provide information to pedestrians, traffic
and other regulatory purposes (e.g., towing signs, parking restrictions, etc.)
are not exempt from the provisions of this chapter, and a permit shall be
obtained for any such sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Other Design Elements: While signage identifying the business is
limited as set forth herein, limited additional design elements may be
recommended for approval on any structure if determined appropriate in the
discretion of the ARC, subject to review and approval by the city council. Such
design elements may include decorative murals, which do not specifically
identify the business, lettering, phrases, decorative etchings, woodwork and/or
public art which are intended to enhance the visual appeal of a structure or
premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Preferred Design Criteria: For any premises, the ARC shall consider
the following preferred design criteria in considering the approval or
recommendation for approval of any sign:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Illumination levels shall be regulated to ensure that the
illumination is appropriate in light of the proposed signage, site, and
adjoining properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Signage coloring shall complement the development and other
signage within the business district. Neon colors and bright colors are not
preferred, but may be permitted where they are found to enhance a design
element, or otherwise are found to be appropriate due to unique site
conditions. In general, signage colors shall be complementary with the proposed
development. White, earth, bronze, gold or other subdued color tones for signs,
lettering and logos are preferred.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The ARC may consider allowing corporate logos where appropriate.
However, the colors of corporate logos may be required to be changed or subdued
to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter and color requirements set forth
above.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The shape of signs shall relate to the building facade, facade of
adjacent buildings, and to the signs on adjacent buildings, if applicable. The
coloring of signs shall be consistent throughout utilizing complementary tones
and shades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â In all other respects, the sign must comply with all other
requirements of this chapter and the ordinances of the city. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-
1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â All signs shall be professionally done and in all respects comply
with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, hand lettered signs are not permitted. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-
2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Flagpoles And Advertising: No flagpole shall exceed thirty feet
(30') in height, and no advertising is permitted other than a business logo,
where approved.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Temporary Signs And Regulations: The following temporary signage is
permitted and regulated as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Event Signs: A sign not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in total
surface area and six feet (6') in height announcing a drive or event of a
religious, civic or philanthropic organization may be permitted on the premises
of said organization; provided, that the sign shall be used for not more than
fifteen (15) days prior to the event; and provided, that said sign shall be
removed within two (2) days after the completion of said event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Project Identification Signs: One sign not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet in total surface area may be placed on the premises of a business,
project or building under construction facing each right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Temporary Advertising Signs: Temporary advertising signs are
permitted as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The sign is permitted only for the announcement of a grand
opening sale, special offering or event; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The sign shall be contained entirely within the lot or premises,
and specifically, no such sign shall be posted or placed upon any sidewalk,
parkway, or public right of way; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The sign shall be used for not more than fifteen (15) days prior
to the event, and the sign shall be removed within two (2) days after the
completion of said event; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The sign shall bear the date it was posted and may not be reused
or the event or offering reposted within forty five (45) days of the initial
posting; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â If the sign is posted in or near a windowpane or glass door, any
sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet, nor shall the total of all signage
posted in the windowpane(s) or glass door area exceed twenty percent (20%) of
the glass area of the windowpane(s) or glass door; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â No such sign shall be illuminated; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The occupant of the premises shall keep a log of all temporary
advertising signs posted at the premises. Such log shall include the date of
posting, the event or offering posted, the date of removal, and the
identification of the employee making the posting. Such log shall be exhibited
immediately upon request to any agent of the city for inspection and copying.
Signs announcing charitable, civic, philanthropic or community sponsored events
and event signs are not subject to the log requirements hereunder; and (Ord.
2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The sign shall be professionally done and in all respects comply
with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, hand lettered signs are not permitted. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-
2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Valet Signs: The mayor may authorize temporary signs designating
approved valet parking services. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Political Signs: Political signs are only regulated by this chapter
if the political candidate has opened a physical office or location within the
city of Highwood. All political signs shall be removed by any candidate or any
political committee within five (5) days after the election in which the
political issue is decided. Failure of any candidate or political committee to
remove a political sign shall make both liable for violation of this chapter.
However, no such sign may be placed or erected upon any public way or place
except as herein provided. (Ord. 17-O-2, 1-3-2017)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Prohibited Signs: The following signs are prohibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No banners, flags, pennants, ribbons, streamers, spinners or helium
filled balloons used as a sign shall be located, erected, altered or maintained
in the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Pole signs, clocks, or other advertising devices erected upon poles,
pylons, standards or separate supports are prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Portable signs are not permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any open spark or flame shall not be used for display purposes
unless specifically approved by the building department and fire department.
(Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, hand lettered signs
are not permitted. All signs shall be professionally done and in all respects
comply with the intent and purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005;
amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Neon signs not specifically permitted herein are prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â No LCD/plasma displays, blinking, flashing or fluttering or other
illuminating device, nor any illumination which has a change in light
intensity, brightness or color shall be permitted. (This prohibition is not
intended to apply to any approved time/temperature sign nor to seasonal holiday
lighting.)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â No sign with changing messages or content, revolving mechanisms,
including alternating slats which change the message or signage content, shall
be permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â No light or string of lights shall be illuminated except during
holiday seasons and then may only be illuminated during such holiday season.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â No sign may be placed or erected upon any public way or place
except as herein provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Except as specifically permitted herein, no person shall post,
stick, stamp, tack, paint or otherwise fix, or cause the same to be done by any
person, any sign, notice, placard, bill, card, poster, advertisement or other
device calculated to get the attention of the public, to or upon any sidewalk,
crosswalk, curb or curbstone, flagstone or any other portion or part of any
public way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Illuminated building faces are prohibited unless submitted for
approval; however, if approved, shall be only such faces as do not front a
residential district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Illuminated box signs are prohibited both as wall signs and
monument/freestanding signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Signs, lettering and announcements on trucks and delivery vehicles
shall not be used to circumvent the signage regulations of this chapter. Trucks
whose primary purpose is the display of a billboard or display are specifically
prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Other signs not permitted by this chapter are prohibited. (Ord.
2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Sandwich Board Signs: Businesses may have one sandwich board sign which
shall be no larger than two feet (2') wide and three feet (3') tall which is
not calculated against the total surface area of allowed signage. Sandwich
board signs may be placed on the public way provided the following requirements
are met:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The owner of the sandwich board sign pays the fee set forth in title
3 of this code, obtains a permit as required in this chapter, and executes a
license agreement indemnifying and holding the city harmless from liability and
naming the city, its officers and employees as an additional insured on a
general liability insurance policy. Such license agreements shall be approved
and signed by the city manager or his/her designee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sandwich board signs may be displayed during business hours only and
must be removed each day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Signs may be placed on sidewalks only and in a location where the
unobstructed paved area for pedestrian passage is not less than sixty inches
(60") wide.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Sandwich board signs shall be constructed of wood, metal, or durable
plastic.
Notwithstanding the requirements of section
10-3-5 of this chapter, neither an ARC recommendation, nor city council
approval shall be required for a sandwich board sign permit unless a variation
from the provisions of this section is sought. The city manager or his designee
is authorized to issue permits for sandwich board signs which conform with this
section. (Ord. 10-O-09, 3-16-2010)
10-3-6-8: NONCONFORMING, OBSOLETE SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nonconforming Signs: Nonconforming signs may remain so long as the use
which they advertise or identify remains, and so long as they remain undamaged
and in a good state of repair, and so long as they remain safe and structurally
sound as herein provided. Provided, however, as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Nonconforming signs shall not be changed, repaired, reconstructed,
or modified in any manner whatsoever. However, routine maintenance such as
painting and changing of lightbulbs is permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Once a nonconforming sign becomes damaged, falls into disrepair, or
is no longer safe and structurally sound, or such nonconforming sign becomes
obsolete and no longer advertises or identifies an existing use, such
nonconforming obsolete sign shall be removed, including the sign face and all
poles, bases, supports, braces, guys, anchors, and any other supporting
structures, within thirty (30) days of the date the nonconforming sign becomes
obsolete. Further, the premises to which the sign was attached shall be
restored to a good and safe condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If any nonconforming sign does not comply with this chapter and all
other applicable ordinances, rules and regulations in effect at the time that
the nonconforming sign becomes damaged or falls into disrepair, then, and in
that event, the owner shall remove or cause to be removed such nonconforming
sign in its entirety, including the sign face and all poles, bases, supports,
braces, guys, anchors and any other supporting structures, within thirty (30)
days of the date the nonconforming sign becomes damaged or falls into
disrepair. Further, the premises to which the sign was attached shall be
restored to a good and safe condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The above shall not apply to nonconforming monument signs covered
under subsection 10-3-6-7C2 of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obsolete Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Within thirty (30) days after any building, development or portion
thereof is vacated, or any time that a sign shall cease to advertise or
identify its original use, the owner shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â If said sign in all respects complied with this chapter in effect
at the time that the sign became obsolete, and all applicable ordinances, rules
and regulations in effect at the time that the sign became obsolete, the owner
shall remove or cause to be removed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Such obsolete sign face within thirty (30) days.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Such obsolete sign, in its entirety, including all poles,
bases, supports, braces, guys, anchors and any other supporting structures,
pursuant to subsection B2 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If said sign was a nonconforming sign, did not comply with the
code in effect at the time that the sign became obsolete, and all applicable
ordinances, rules and regulations in effect at the time that the sign became
obsolete, then, and in that event, the owner shall remove or cause to be
removed such obsolete sign, in its entirety, including the sign face and all
poles, bases, supports, braces, guys, anchors and any other supporting
structures, within thirty (30) days of the date the sign became obsolete.
Further, the premises to which the sign was attached shall be restored to a
good and safe condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The above shall not apply to obsolete nonconforming monument
signs covered under subsection 10-3-6-7C2 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â a. For a premises containing a conforming obsolete sign, within
sixty (60) days of the date the sign became obsolete, the owner shall remove or
cause to be removed such obsolete sign, in its entirety, including all poles,
bases, supports, braces, guys, anchors, and any other supporting structures.
Provided, that the ARC may recommend to the city council a further extension of
such time period. An application for such extension shall be submitted to the
ARC by the applicant showing good cause why such conforming obsolete sign ought
not be removed within the time period provided herein. The ARC may, in its
discretion, recommend such extension, and further recommend such further
conditions as are reasonably required to implement the intent and purpose of
this chapter. The report of the ARC recommending the granting or denial of such
extension shall be forwarded to the city council for consideration and approval
or denial. The city council may impose such further conditions as it determines
are reasonably required to implement the intent and purpose of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Thereafter, a further extension of time may be granted by
application submitted to the city council by the applicant showing good cause
why such conforming obsolete sign ought not be removed within the time periods
granted above. The city council may grant such extension, and further may
impose such further conditions as are reasonably required to implement the
intent and purpose of this chapter. In its discretion, the city council may
refer this matter back to the ARC for further consideration for any further
extension.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Upon expiration of the time periods set forth above, and
provided, that no permits have been issued for the modification and maintenance
of said sign and structure, the owner shall remove such obsolete sign in its
entirety, including all poles, bases, supports, braces, guys, anchors and any
other supporting structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For integrated shopping centers under single ownership or under
unified control, which maintain a sign erected showing the name of the
integrated shopping center and the name of the occupants of the center,
whenever such sign, or portion thereof, ceases to advertise or identify a
business or use within such shopping center, the owner shall remove or cause to
be removed such obsolete sign, or portion thereof, within thirty (30) days
after such use ceases.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Removal Of Sign:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any sign face which is required to be removed pursuant to the terms
of this chapter shall be considered removed either when the sign, in its
entirety, has been removed, or when the sign face, lettering, graphics or other
information identifying the obsolete use has been fully removed. Provided, that
all work shall be professionally done and in all respects comply with the
intent and purpose of this chapter. In no event shall the sign face be simply
covered or any interior areas of a sign receptacle or box remain exposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whenever a sign is removed from a building facade, such facade shall
be restored following removal of the sign.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Lien Provisions: If signs are not removed within the time period
provided pursuant to the terms of this chapter, the city may have such signs
removed at the expense of the owner. The expense of such removal shall
constitute a lien upon the premises until paid. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-6-9: ALTERATIONS, RELOCATION, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Alterations: A sign shall not be enlarged or relocated except in
conformity with the provisions for new signs, nor until a proper permit has
been secured. The changing or movable parts of an approved sign that is
designed for such changes, or the repainting or reposting of display matter,
shall not be deemed an alteration, provided the conditions of the original
approval and the requirements of this section
10-3-6 are not violated.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Relocating Signs: Any sign that is moved to another location, either on
the same or to other premises, shall be considered a new sign, and a permit
shall be secured for any work performed in connection therewith when required
by this section
10-3-6.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Maintenance Of Signs: All signs, together with all their supports,
braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in good repair and shall at all times
be maintained to conform to at least the minimum standards prescribed by the
ordinances of the city. Further, provided that nonconforming signs shall not be
so maintained and shall be removed once they become damaged or fall into
disrepair. Notwithstanding the above, the changing of bulbs is permitted
without ARC approval, and painting of sign poles and boxes is permitted,
following ARC approval.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Maintenance Of Premises: It shall be the duty of all persons holding a
present possessory interest in a lot or premises and the owner thereof having a
sign, to at all times maintain said lot or premises in the vicinity of such
sign in a neat, clean, sanitary and inoffensive condition and to keep the same
free and clean of all debris, junk and other materials and substances which
would tend to create a condition detrimental to the appearance of the property
and the city, or the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Removal Of Dangerous Signs: When any sign becomes insecure, presents a
danger of falling, or is otherwise unsafe, or if any sign shall be unlawfully
installed, erected or maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, the persons having a present possessory interest in the lot or
premises upon which the sign is placed or the owner thereof shall, upon written
notice of the building department, and in the case of immediate danger
forthwith, but in no event no more than ten (10) days, make such sign conform
to the provisions of this section
10-3-6, or shall remove it. The persons having a present possessory interest in
the sign or the owner of the lot or premises shall be afforded a hearing before
the ARC to show cause why the sign shall not be removed. If, within ten (10)
days after the ARC finds that the sign is unsafe or is not maintained in
accordance with this section
10-3-6 or was unlawfully erected or installed, the building department may
cause the removal of the sign and charge the cost of removal to the persons
having a present possessory interest in the sign or the owner of the lot or
premises concerned. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-6-10: NOTARY PUBLIC DISCLOSURE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary,
any sign approved for a notary public who is not an attorney, which is in a
language other than English, shall contain the following disclaimer, in
accordance with 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 312/3-103:
Â Â Â Â Â Â I AM NOT AN ATTORNEY LICENSED TO PRACTICE LAW IN ILLINOIS AND MAY NOT
GIVE LEGAL ADVICE OR ACCEPT FEES FOR LEGAL ADVICE.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The above disclaimer shall be of a conspicuous size and shall be in the
language in which the sign appears. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-6-11: TEMPORARY SIGNS ON RIGHT OF WAY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Conditions: In conjunction with a special event occurring within the
city of Highwood and subject to the permitting requirements contained in this
section, temporary signs shall be allowed within the right of way subject to
the following conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Up to ten (10) signs shall be permitted per approved special event;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Individual signs shall be limited to four (4) square feet;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Signs shall be erected up to one week prior to the special event;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Signs shall be removed within two (2) days after the special event;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Signs shall be affixed directly to the ground, shall not exceed
thirty six inches (36") from the ground to the top and shall not be attached to
any street sign, utility pole, light pole or fire hydrant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â No signs shall be placed in such a manner as to obstruct safe
passage on any right of way, or to endanger the public health and safety;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The city reserves the right to remove or relocate a sign as it deems
necessary.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permits: All temporary signs authorized by this section shall be
subject to the following permit requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An application shall be filed with the city manager at least
fourteen (14) days prior to the advertised special event, and shall contain the
following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Date of special event;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Location of special event;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Number of temporary signs requested to be placed in right of way;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Proposed location of temporary signs;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Proposed drawing and specifications of temporary signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All applications for temporary sign permits shall also include a
deposit in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00), which shall be returned to the
applicant provided all permitted temporary signs are removed from the right of
way within two (2) days after the special event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The city manager shall grant the temporary sign permit provided all
provisions of this section have been complied with. (Ord. 13-O-36, 6-4-2013)
10-3-7: APPROVAL OF LANDSCAPING AND EXTERIOR AREAS:
10-3-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
10-3-7 is to enhance the appearance of properties and the city in such a way as
to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Ensure that all properties other than single-family dwellings or duplex
dwellings substantially remodeled, substantially renovated or developed
(including additions) within the city are reviewed for landscape design
elements both on the property and adjacent public ways by promoting enhanced
landscape opportunities.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Enhance the appearance of the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Provide a review of landscape plans with regard to design elements,
planting materials, proportion and manner of display to fully promote the
intent and purpose of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Promote such plantings and landscape design elements that will not
obstruct the vision necessary for traffic safety or otherwise endanger the
public health, safety, morals or general welfare.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Ensure that plantings and landscape design elements are selected for
their durability as well as for their beauty.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Enhance architectural features, strengthen vistas and important areas,
and provide shade. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-7-2: APPLICATION FOR AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Form Of Application: Where a property is substantially remodeled,
substantially renovated or developed (including additions) within the city,
other than a single-family or existing duplex dwelling, an application for
landscape approval shall be made by the applicant to the ARC upon such forms as
may be provided by the building department.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Contents Of Application:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Such application shall contain or have attached thereto the
following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Written consent of the legal owner of the building or structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Location of the building or structure to be constructed or
altered.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Site plan - two (2) drawings of the project including
specifications, elevations and methods of construction, including a scaled
drawing appropriate to the project with sufficient detail to clearly convey the
form and nature of all site improvements and modifications and their
relationships to adjacent properties. Documentation may be required to include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â General Requirements: Project address; graphic scale, north
reference; square foot area calculations for building, pavement and
landscaping; dimensioned property lines, easements and building setbacks;
adjacent streets, alleys and sidewalks; parking spaces including handicapped
spaces; trash/refuse location and enclosures; proposed equipment (generators,
compactors, transformers, HVAC, etc.); and existing and proposed contours at
two foot (2'0") maximum intervals (if applicable).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Landscape Plan: A landscape plan rendered in color and
including depiction of existing vegetation noting species, size and driplines
of trees two and one-half inch (21/2") caliper and larger, with a distinction
shown between vegetation to be retained or removed; new plant material noting
quantities, species (botanical and common names), and size (in caliper or
height at time of installation), and graphically distinguishing between new and
existing plant material and between species of new plant material; site
furnishings and specialties; paving materials; height and locations of
flagpoles, signage, light standards and fences; screening, noting materials
used as screen, height of screen material, device or area which requires
screening and height of device to be screened (exterior areas which require
screening include parking, refuse storage and mechanical equipment); and
stormwater retention/detention areas.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Lighting Plan: A separate overlay to the above referenced
site plan with site and building lighting highlighted. Documentation to include
photometric documentation or separate printout showing compliance with the
zoning ordinance; reference code keyed to light fixture catalog cuts; and lamp
types.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Building Plan (Minimum Scale, 1/8" = 1'0"): Documentation
shall include grade level plan which indicates openings and articulation of the
exterior wall and the relationship of this level to the project site; floor
plans of all levels on separate drawings; roof plan with equipment, skylights
and other appropriate features; and graphically distinguish between new and
existing construction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Building Elevations (Minimum Scale, 1/8" = 1'0"): A drawing
which provides exterior views of all new and existing building facades and
indicates the relationships of all visible building features and color
rendering of significant views.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Site Section: A section through the site at appropriate
locations indicating buildings, trees, light standards, grade variations,
fences and other critical structures. Reference plane of section cuts to site
plan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Scale Model Or Building Perspective: A scale model or color
rendering of significant views of the building and its surrounding area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Material Samples: A display board which illustrates actual
site and building materials. Samples shall provide an accurate representation
of color, texture, finish and range variations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Photographs: Current color photographs of the site showing
all building elevations, surrounding properties and landscape views. Format
shall be a minimum four inch by six inch (4" x 6") size color print. Panoramic
studies are preferred.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The application shall be supplemented by such other and further
materials as required by the building department or the ARC.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Appearance Before ARC: Upon such application, applicant may be required
to appear before the ARC for clarification of the proposed landscape plans.
Approval must be secured from the building department, a certificate of
approval from the ARC and final approval from the city council before any
permit is issued.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditions Of Approval: After review and consideration of the material
presented, the ARC shall move approval if it finds that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The applicant's plans are substantially consistent with this
chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The proposed exterior design features of the development are
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter, and suitable and
compatible with the character of neighboring buildings and structures existing
or under construction and with the character of the neighborhood and zoning
district, and contribute to the favorable environment of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The exterior design features of the development will not be
detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The exterior design features of the development will not cause a
substantial depreciation in the property values or taxable values in the
neighborhood. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-7-3: LANDSCAPING APPROVAL REQUIRED:
No building permit shall be issued for any new construction nor for any
premises which is substantially altered, remodeled or improved within the city
(except single-family or existing duplex dwellings), unless the applicant shall
provide and obtain approval of a landscape plan showing the premises (in
addition to the parkway and off street parking area requirements herein) to be
treated with decorative elements, plantings, berms or other innovative means as
required in this chapter. The following specific provisions shall apply
wherever practicable. Any construction, addition, or enlargement for all uses,
except single-family or existing duplex dwellings, shall be permitted only upon
compliance with the following at a minimum:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Shade trees of not less than two and one-half inch (21/2") caliper
shall be planted within or surrounding the proposed construction, addition or
enlargement, at a rate and spacing determined by the ARC, based upon the
proposed use and the intent and purpose of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each area abutting a public street (other than approved driveway cuts)
shall provide approved landscaping of hedges, shrubbery or evergreens, a
planted earth berm, or a combination of both, as approved by the ARC.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Planting islands of shrubs and/or trees, and decorative berms shall be
implemented into landscape plans for screening or outdoor areas, including
areas of congregation of individuals such as patios, outdoor service areas and
service yards, and other places in which individuals, patrons or employees tend
to congregate. This shall be accomplished by use of walls, fencing, plantings
or combinations of the above.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Unity of design shall be achieved by repetition of certain plant
varieties and other materials and by correlation with adjacent developments.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Plant material shall be selected for interest in its structure, texture
and color and for its ultimate growth. Plants that are noninvasive, hardy,
harmonious to the design, and of attractive appearance shall be used.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Each area in the business district, for which a landscaping plan is
required, which abuts residential property shall provide a sight screen
approved by the ARC such as a solid fence or wall, not less than five feet (5')
nor more than six feet (6') in height, or a continuous dense hedge of shrubbery
or evergreens, a planted earth berm, or a combination of both, at least five
feet (5') high. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-7-4: PARKING LOTS:
To achieve attractive landscape transition between off street parking areas and
adjoining properties or public streets, all such areas shall be treated with
decorative design elements, plantings, berms or other innovative means as
required in this chapter. The following specific provisions shall apply:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any construction or enlargement of off street parking and loading areas
for all uses, except single-family or existing duplex dwellings, shall be
permitted only upon compliance with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No permit shall be issued for construction of any new parking area
(except single-family or existing duplex dwellings), unless the applicant
agrees that plantings and trees as determined sufficient by the ARC shall be
planted therein, unless the ARC shall show good cause in writing that such
planting will not be in the best interest of the city. At a minimum, shade
trees of not less than two and one-half inch (21/2") caliper shall be planted
within or surrounding any parking area at a rate of not less than one tree for
the first five thousand (5,000) square feet of parking and loading areas, plus
one tree for each additional five thousand (5,000) square feet or part thereof
of parking and loading area, but not less than one tree for each such area. The
applicant shall provide bond or other surety in a form acceptable to the city
attorney for same.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All such trees shall be of a caliper specified by the ARC and of
such species, quality and placement as may be approved by the ARC, taking into
account cleanliness, ease of maintenance, resistance to disease and adverse
conditions and the avoidance of concentrations of single species.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No tree, shrub or plant shall be planted or maintained within any
parking area where the lowermost branches of any tree extend over the adjacent
pavement maintained for vehicular traffic or parking at a height of less than
nine feet (9').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The planting of any low hanging trees which might impair vision is
also prohibited. No person shall plant any tree in a parking lot without first
obtaining approval from the ARC.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Unity of design shall be achieved by repetition of certain plant
varieties and other materials and by correlation with adjacent developments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Plant material shall be selected for interest in its structure,
texture and color and for its ultimate growth. Plants that are indigenous to
the area and that will be hardy, harmonious to the design, and of attractive
appearance shall be used.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parking and loading areas abutting any street or abutting residential
uses shall also comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each such area abutting a public street (other than approved
driveway cuts) shall provide a buffer strip of five feet (5') minimum width for
the entire length of the property line abutting such right of way and
landscaped with a continuous dense hedge of shrubbery or evergreens, a planted
earth berm, or a combination of both, of appropriate height as determined by
the ARC considering the site. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Each such area abutting residential property shall provide a sight
screen such as a solid fence or wall not less than five feet (5') nor more than
eight feet (8') in height 1 , or a continuous dense hedge of shrubbery or
evergreens, a planted earth berm, or a combination of both, at least five feet
(5') high. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Planting islands of shrubs and/or trees within parking lots or
loading areas shall be encouraged.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Parking areas and related trafficways shall be enhanced with
landscaped areas, including trees or tree groupings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Unity of design shall be achieved by repetition of certain plant
varieties and other materials and by correlation with adjacent developments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Plant material shall be selected for interest in its structure,
texture and color and for its ultimate growth. Plants that are indigenous to
the area and that will be hardy, harmonious to the design, and of attractive
appearance shall be used.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Parking areas shall be treated with decorative elements, building
wall extensions, plantings, berms or other innovative means so as to largely
screen parking areas from view from public ways.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â In locations where plants will be susceptible to injury by
pedestrian or motor traffic, they shall be protected by appropriate curbs, tree
guards, or other devices.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Trees, plantings and improvements placed or authorized by the city
shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections 11-8-4D12 and 11-8-6B of this code.
10-3-7-5: PARKWAYS AND PUBLIC WAYS:
No building permit shall be issued for any new construction nor for any
premises which is substantially altered, remodeled or improved within the city
(except single-family or existing duplex dwellings), unless the applicant
agrees that grass, plantings and trees, as required in this chapter and as
determined sufficient by the ARC, shall be planted in the public parkway
adjoining the premises to be improved. The following specific provisions shall
apply, unless the ARC shall show good cause in writing that such planting will
not be in the best interest of the city:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Trees shall be planted approximately forty feet (40') apart at a rate
of not less than one tree for any frontage of less than forty feet (40'), two
(2) trees for any frontage of forty feet (40'), and two (2) trees for each
additional forty feet (40') of frontage or part thereof. The applicant shall
provide bond or other surety in a form acceptable to the city attorney for
same.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All such trees shall be of not less than two and one-half inch (21/2")
caliper and of such species, quality and placement as may be approved by the
ARC, taking into account cleanliness, ease of maintenance, resistance to
disease and adverse conditions and the avoidance of concentrations of single
species.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The following trees shall not be used for street for parkway plantings:
poplar, cottonwood, box elder, willow, dwarf catalpa, soft maple, elms,
hawthorn, birch, spruce, pine, fir, or any type of bearing fruit/nut tree or
any variety thereof.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to plant, set
out, grow or maintain any tree, shrub or plant in and upon any public street or
parkway in the city except in the manner herein specified.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place or
maintain on any such street or parkway gravel, stones, boulders, fences, rock
gardens or ornamentation within two feet (2') of the public roadway.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to remove,
damage, or deface any improvements (including landscaping, grass or plantings)
installed upon any right of way, the public parkway, public parks, city
property, parking lots maintained or managed by the city, or any landscaping
and/or plantings required by this chapter.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of the person, firm or corporation owning or
occupying the property adjacent to the public parkway to maintain the parkway
by trimming/mowing any grass thereon. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to allow such grass to grow in excess of the limitations imposed
by city ordinances.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Unless approved by the city, no tree, shrub or plant shall be planted
or maintained upon any public street or parkway at a distance of less than two
feet (2') from the established curb line or at a distance of less than two feet
(2') from the established sidewalk line, nor shall the lowermost branches of
any tree extend over the adjacent pavement maintained for vehicular traffic at
a height of less than nine feet (9'). No shrubs shall be allowed to grow higher
than three feet (3').
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â The planting of any low hanging trees which might impair vision is also
prohibited. No person shall plant any tree on any parkway without first
obtaining permission from the ARC.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Trees, plantings and improvements placed or authorized by the city
shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-7-6: REFUSE AREAS AND MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In the B-1 zoning district of the city, and in all zoning districts in
which a business, commercial, or multiple-family use exists (a property
containing more than 3 family living units), a refuse enclosure area is
required as follows: All garbage and refuse receptacles, garbage and refuse
bags, recycling containers, and all other items of garbage, trash, refuse,
brush, cuttings or any other matter enumerated in the city scavenger ordinance
1  for collection (hereinafter "refuse"), shall at all times be kept in the
enclosed and screened area designated for same (hereinafter "refuse enclosure
area") except when the refuse is actually being collected. The refuse enclosure
area shall consist of a paved, dustless surface surrounded by an approved
screening fence or landscape screening of a height sufficient to screen such
refuse and containers from view from adjoining properties and public or private
ways. The refuse enclosure area shall be designed with a gate or gates to allow
access by the scavenger service for removal of the containers and/or refuse,
and a separate entry to the refuse enclosure area for depositing of refuse by
users of the enclosure (hereinafter "manway"). The requirement of a manway may
be waived by the ARC if not practicable in a particular application or
premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The ARC may promulgate certain approved refuse enclosures and screening
devices to be implemented for the purposes set forth above. Such preapproved
screening methods and designs may be implemented by the building official and
permits issued for same without the necessity of the applicant appearing before
the ARC, provided the proposed enclosure or screening device fully complies in
all respects with all other applicable ordinances. Where convenient for the
administration of this chapter, the building official may solicit such
approvals from time to time from the ARC on behalf of the city or on behalf of
an applicant.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, or section
11-3-3 of this code, approval by the city council is not required for the
issuance of permits for refuse enclosures in any business district. However, at
the next regular meeting of the city council, the building official shall
report to the city council the nature of all permits issued pursuant to this
chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Refuse and waste removal areas, service yards, storage yards, and
exterior work areas shall be screened from view from public ways, using
materials as stated in criteria for equipment screening. Further, to the
greatest extent practicable, they shall not be located in front yards or
adjacent to any public way. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Mechanical equipment or other utility hardware on the roof, ground, or
buildings shall be screened from public view with materials harmonious with the
building, or they shall be so located as not to be visible from any public
ways. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Screening of service yards and other places which tend to be unsightly
shall be accomplished by use of walls, fencing, planting, or combinations of
these. Screening shall be equally effective in winter and summer. (Ord. 2005-O-
6, 2-1-2005)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 10 of this code.
10-3-7-7: FENCES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Anyone wishing to erect a fence within the city shall obtain a fence
permit from the building department. However, no permit shall be issued for any
fence (other than a temporary construction site fence) to be constructed within
the business district until the ARC has reviewed same and issued its approval.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All fences shall comply with the following regulations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No fence shall be erected or maintained in a front yard of any lot
adjoining a public street in any district, except in the B-1 retail business
district, to a height greater than four feet (4'). Only open fencing is
permitted in a front yard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No fences shall be erected or maintained in a side yard or a rear
yard in any district (except in the business district) to a height greater than
six feet (6').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No chainlink type fencing (with or without filler strips) shall be
erected or maintained in a front yard of any lot adjoining a public street in
any district. Existing chainlink fences shall be removed when they fall into
disrepair.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Fences in any business district shall comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No fence shall be erected or maintained in the business district
to a height greater than five feet (5'). Further, only open wrought iron
fencing is permitted in any yard in the business district. Exceptions to the
requirements of this subsection B4a are set forth in subsection B4b of this
section. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â In areas of the business district in which a fence for screening
purposes is required by any ordinance of the city, such screening fence shall
not be less than six feet (6') and shall consist of a decorative "board on
board", brick, other fencing or other material approved by the ARC. Further
provided, that same is structurally sound for the proposed application (i.e.,
supported by metal poles and framing) 1 . (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Regardless of the above permitted heights, in no event shall any
wall, fence or other structure or planting be placed or maintained in a
location relative to a public or private street, alley, driveway or other means
of ingress or egress such that the sight of oncoming vehicular or pedestrian
traffic is impaired for users of such means of ingress and egress.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Chainlink type fencing, with or without filler strips, is
prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â All fence materials shall be new and of good quality acceptable
for exterior use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Upon good cause shown by the applicant, the city council may
grant a variation to allow an applicant to erect a fence which is required for
screening purposes other than as permitted above. Such approval shall be in the
sole discretion of the city council. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â In all zoning districts the finished side of the fence (side without
fenceposts) shall face the adjoining property or public way. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-
1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The use of barbed wire or electrically charged fences is prohibited.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any fence (whether or not required by this chapter) and/or any
landscaped screening used to satisfy the requirements of this chapter, or
required as a condition of approval for a special use permit, or for which a
permit is issued shall be continually maintained for the duration of the use
involved. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 11-6-1C of this code.
10-3-7-8: MAINTENANCE AND UPKEEP:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In general, maintenance and upkeep are required for all the parts and
objects which compose the city's image. Lawns and plantings require
considerably more periodic attention than do buildings; nonetheless, both
require maintenance in order to retain a good appearance. Improper and
inadequate maintenance decreases value and results in bad appearance.
Therefore, it is necessary that maintenance be a concern of the ARC.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The maintenance of yards, other open spaces and minimum lot areas
legally required for a building within a zoning district shall be a continuing
obligation upon the owner of such building or property. Further, there shall be
a continuing obligation upon the owner of any building or property for which
landscape plantings have been approved pursuant to this chapter to maintain
same and, as necessary, to replace any landscaping materials, plantings,
shrubbery, fences or otherwise which may have deteriorated or have been damaged
or defaced, all as more fully set forth below.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All trees, shrubs and plantings required by this chapter shall be
provided and maintained by the owner or occupant of the premises. The property
owner or occupant is required to maintain the adjacent parkway including, but
not limited to, mowing grass and raking leaves. However, the city will be
responsible for pruning and removing any trees located in the city parkways
which it determines detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any tree, shrub or plant planted on private property which overhangs
any public way in such a manner as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel on said public way or obstruct the view of motorists at the intersection
of streets shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises on which said tree or
shrub is planted so that the interference or obstruction is removed. Any tree
or limb of a tree which has become dead or decayed or broken and likely to fall
on or across any public way shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree stands or grows.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Landscape materials, other than plantings, which have deteriorated or
have been damaged or defaced shall be properly repaired or replaced.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Plant materials which have deteriorated or died shall be replaced with
healthy plantings, or the area redesigned with other treatment to provide an
attractive appearance.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Plantings shall be kept watered, fed, cultivated, and pruned as
required to give a healthy and well groomed appearance during all seasons.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Any vacant or abandoned lot shall be appropriately maintained. This
shall include removal of any previously permitted pavement surfaces and
installation and maintenance of landscaping including grass, sod, or other
decorative materials. Any such property shall be kept free and clear of litter
and debris.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Parkway planting areas shall be maintained by the adjacent property
owner in order to add to the aesthetic enhancement of the private property and
the overall attractiveness of the streetscape.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Sidewalks, curbs and gutters, roadside berms, and other public
improvements in the public right of way shall be repaired and maintained as
necessary.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Refuse containers of an aesthetically satisfactory design and color
shall be placed in locations which will encourage their use, to avoid littering
of waste materials.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Street hardware shall be erected and secured properly and shall be
cleaned or painted regularly to present an orderly appearance. (Ord. 2005-O-6,
2-1-2005)
10-3-7-9: OBSOLETE STRUCTURES:
Within thirty (30) days after any antenna tower, pole, refuse enclosure,
storage structure, satellite dish, or ancillary structure in the business
district ceases to be used, is vacated, or is no longer used for its intended
function, the owner shall remove or cause same to be removed, in its entirety,
within thirty (30) days, including all poles, bases, supports, braces, guys,
anchors and any other supporting structures. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-8: APPROVAL OF BUILDING FACADES AND EXTERIORS:
10-3-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this section
10-3-8 is to enhance the appearance of properties and the city in such a way as
to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Ensure that designated properties remodeled, renovated or developed
within the city are reviewed to ensure acceptable appearance of exterior areas
thereby promoting consistent renovation of such structures.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Enhance the appearance of the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Provide a review of the exterior plan with regard to design features,
components and proportion to fully promote the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Promote such exterior improvements and design features that will
enhance the structure and will not obstruct the vision necessary for traffic
safety or otherwise endanger the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare. Limited additional design elements may be permitted on any structure
where determined appropriate by the ARC, in its discretion, subject to review
and approval by the city council. Such design elements may include decorative
murals, which do not specifically identify the business, decorative etchings,
woodwork and/or public art which are intended to enhance the visual appeal of a
structure or premises.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Ensure that all exterior design features are selected for their
durability as well as for their beauty. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-8-2: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Without approval by the ARC as provided below, no person, firm,
partnership or corporation shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Alter the structure of any facade upon any building (except a
building used exclusively as a single-family or existing duplex dwelling),
whether or not such building may be located in an area zoned for business, or
alter the structure of any facade upon any building (except a building used
exclusively as a single-family or existing duplex dwelling) within the business
districts of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Paint, redesign, alter or modify the appearance of any facade upon
any building (except a building used exclusively as single- family or existing
duplex dwelling), whether or not such building may be located in an area zoned
for business, or alter the structure of any facade upon any building (except a
building used exclusively as a single-family or existing duplex dwelling)
within the business districts of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Construct any new building within in any zoning district of the city
(except a building used exclusively as a single-family or existing duplex
dwelling).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Construct or establish any outdoor garden area; patio; deck; private
outside dining or drinking area; exterior sales area; exterior (including
rooftop) living, entertainment or display area; or outdoor sales area
(including merchandise sale or display carts) within the business districts.
Further provided, that any temporary sales or display area permitted by the
city, or mobile vendor licensed by the city, is exempt from this prohibition.
(Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Obtain a certificate of occupancy for any business use unless, prior
to issuance of the certificate of occupancy, the building or structure which
will contain the business use is reviewed for appearance as provided in this
chapter for new buildings. Such review shall not be required for buildings or
structures that were reviewed by the ARC prior to construction and are less
than thirty (30) years old. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Accessory structures (as defined by the city zoning regulations) for
residential uses (except those located in the business zoning districts) shall
be excluded from the application of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Improvements authorized by the city shall be exempt from the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-8-3: APPLICATIONS FOR AND CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Form Of Application: Application for any permit referred to above shall
be made upon such forms as may be provided by the building department and shall
be signed by the applicant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Contents Of Application:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Such application shall contain or have attached thereto the
following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Name, address and telephone number of the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Written consent of the legal owner of the building or structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Location of the building or structure to be constructed or
altered.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Site plan - two (2) drawings of the project, including
specifications, elevations and methods of construction, including a scaled
drawing appropriate to the project with sufficient detail to clearly convey the
form and nature of all site improvements and modifications and their
relationships to adjacent properties. Documentation may be required to include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Generally: Project address; graphic scale, north reference;
square foot area calculations for building, pavement and landscaping;
dimensioned property lines, easements and building setbacks; adjacent streets,
alleys and sidewalks; parking spaces including handicapped spaces; trash/refuse
location and enclosures; proposed equipment (generators, compactors,
transformers, HVAC, etc.); and existing and proposed contours at two foot
(2'0") maximum intervals (if applicable).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Landscape Plan: Rendered in color and including depiction of
existing vegetation noting species, size and drip lines of trees two and one-
half inch (21/2") caliper and larger, with a distinction shown between
vegetation to be retained or removed; new plant material, noting quantities,
species (botanical and common names), and size (in caliper or height at time of
installation), and graphically distinguishing between new and existing plant
material and between species of new plant material; site furnishings and
specialties; paving materials; height and locations of flagpoles, signage,
light standards and fences; screening, noting materials used as screen, height
of screen material, device or area which requires screening and height of
device to be screened (exterior areas which require screening include parking,
refuse storage and mechanical equipment); and stormwater retention/detention
areas.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Lighting Plan: A separate overlay to the above referenced
site plan with site and building lighting highlighted. Documentation to include
photometric documentation or separate printout showing compliance with zoning
regulations; reference code keyed to light fixture catalog cuts; and lamp
types.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Building Plan (Minimum Scale, 1/8" = 1'0"): Documentation
shall include grade level plan which indicates openings and articulation of the
exterior wall and the relationship of this level to the project site; floor
plans of all levels on separate drawings; roof plan with equipment, skylights
and other appropriate features; and graphically distinguish between new and
existing construction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Building Elevations (Minimum Scale, 1/8" = 1'0"): A drawing
which provides exterior views of all new and existing building facades and
indicates the relationships of all visible building features and color
rendering of significant views.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Site Section: A section through the site at appropriate
locations indicating buildings, trees, light standards, grade variations,
fences and other critical structures. Reference plane of section cuts to site
plan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Wall Section: Profile through a typical exterior wall to
convey articulation and relationships of materials.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Scale Model Or Building Perspective: A scale model or color
rendering of significant views of the building and its surrounding area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Material Samples: A display board which illustrates actual
site and building materials. Samples shall provide an accurate representation
of color, texture, finish and range variations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â Catalog Cuts: Manufacturers' descriptive and information
brochures as necessary to clarify aesthetic and/or operational characteristics
of exposed equipment, specialties, etc.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â Photographs: Current color photographs of the site showing
all building elevations, surrounding properties and landscape views. Format
shall be a minimum four inch by six inch (4" x 6") size color print. Panoramic
studies are preferred.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The application shall be supplemented by such other and further
materials as required by the building department or the ARC.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Appearance Before ARC: Upon such application, the applicant may be
required to appear before the ARC for review of clarification of proposed
plans. Approval must be secured from the building department, a certificate of
approval from the ARC, and final approval from the city council before any
permit is issued.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditions Of Approval: After review and consideration of the material
presented, the ARC shall move approval if it finds that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The applicant's plans are substantially consistent with this
chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The proposed exterior design features of the development are
consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter, and suitable and
compatible with the character of neighboring buildings and structures existing
or under construction and with the character of the neighborhood and zoning
district, and contribute to the favorable environment of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The exterior design features of the development will not be
detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The exterior design features of the development will not cause a
substantial depreciation in the property values or taxable values in the
neighborhood. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-8-4: CRITERIA FOR APPEARANCE REVIEW:
The purpose of these criteria is to establish a checklist of those items which
affect the physical aspect of the city's environment. Pertinent to appearance
is the design of the site, building and structures, paved areas, plantings,
signs, street hardware, and miscellaneous other objects which are observed by
the public. These criteria are not intended to restrict imagination,
innovation, or variety, but rather to assist in focusing on design principles
which can result in creative solutions that will develop a satisfactory visual
appearance within the city, preserve taxable values, and promote the public
health, safety and welfare, and include:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Relationship Of Buildings To Site:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The site shall be planned to accomplish a desirable transition with
the streetscape, and to provide for adequate planting, safe pedestrian
movement, and parking areas.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Site planning in which setbacks and yards are in excess of zoning
restrictions is encouraged to provide an interesting relationship between
buildings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Parking areas shall be treated with decorative elements, building
wall extensions, plantings, berms or other innovative means so as to largely
screen parking areas from view from public ways.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Without restricting the permissible limits of the applicable zoning
district, the height and scale of each building shall be compatible with its
site and existing (or anticipated) adjoining buildings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Newly installed utility services, and service revisions necessitated
by exterior alterations, shall be underground.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Wherever practicable, adjacent public utilities shall be relocated
to underground or to the rear of the premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Relationship Of Buildings And Site To Adjoining Area:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Attractive landscape transition to adjoining properties shall be
provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Harmony in texture, lines, and masses is required. Monotony should
be avoided.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Landscape And Site Treatment: Landscape elements included in these
criteria consist of all forms of plantings and vegetation, ground forms, rock
groupings, water patterns, and all visible construction except buildings and
utilitarian structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Where natural or existing topographic patterns contribute to beauty
and utility of a development, they shall be preserved and developed.
Modification to topography will be permitted where it contributes to good
appearance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Grades of walks, parking spaces, terraces, and other paved areas
shall provide an inviting and stable appearance for walking and, if seating is
provided, for sitting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Landscape treatment shall be provided to enhance architectural
features, strengthen vistas and important axis, and provide shade. Spectacular
effects shall be reserved for special locations only.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Unity of design shall be achieved by repetition of certain plant
varieties and other materials, and by correlation with adjacent developments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Plant material shall be selected for interest in its structure,
texture, and color and for its ultimate growth. Plants that are noninvasive,
hardy, harmonious to the design, and of good appearance shall be used.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â In locations where plants will be susceptible to injury by
pedestrian or motor traffic, they shall be protected by appropriate curbs, tree
guards, or other devices.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Parking areas and trafficways shall be enhanced with landscaped
spaces containing trees or tree groupings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Where building sites limit planting, the placement of trees in
parkways or paved areas is encouraged. The ARC may exercise discretion if, in
its opinion, the minimum criteria of this chapter cannot be fulfilled on the
existing site. Such recommendation shall be forwarded to the city council for
its review.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Screening of service yards and other places which tend to be
unsightly shall be accomplished by use of walls, fencing, plantings, or
combinations of these. Screening shall be equally effective in winter and
summer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â In areas where general planting will not prosper, other materials
such as fences, walls, and pavings of wood, brick, stone, gravel, and cobbles
shall be used. Carefully selected plants shall be combined with such materials
where possible.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Provision for watering landscape areas shall be included in the
design.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Exterior lighting, when used, shall enhance the building design and
the adjoining landscape. Lighting standards and building fixtures shall be of a
design and size compatible with the building and adjacent areas. Lighting shall
be restrained in design, and excessive brightness avoided, particularly
adjacent to residential areas.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Building Design:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Architectural Style: Architectural style is not restricted.
Evaluation of appearance of a project shall be based on quality of its design
and relationship to surroundings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Scale: Buildings shall have good scale and be in harmonious
conformance with permanent neighboring development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Materials:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Materials shall have good architectural character and shall be
selected for harmony of the building and adjoining buildings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Materials shall be selected for suitability to the type of
buildings and the design in which they are used. Buildings shall have the same
materials, or those which are architecturally harmonious, used for all building
walls and other exterior building components wholly or partly visible from
public ways.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Materials shall be of durable quality.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â In any design in which the structural frame is exposed to view,
the structural materials shall be compatible within themselves and harmonious
to their surroundings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Building components such as windows, doors, eaves, and parapets
shall have good proportions and relationship to one another.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Colors: Colors shall be harmonious with compatible accents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Mechanical Equipment; Hardware: Mechanical equipment or other
utility hardware on the roof, ground, or building shall be screened from public
view with materials harmonious with the building, or they shall be so located
as not to be visible from any public ways.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting shall be part of the
architectural concept. Fixtures, standards, and all exposed accessories shall
be harmonious with building design.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Service And Storage Yards; Work Areas: Refuse and waste removal
areas, service yards, storage yards, and exterior work areas shall be screened
from view from public ways, using materials as stated in criteria for equipment
screening.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Design: Monotony of design in single or multiple building projects
should be avoided. Variation of detail, form, and siting shall be used to
provide visual interest. In multiple building projects, variable siting of
individual buildings may be used to prevent a monotonous appearance.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Miscellaneous Structures And Street Hardware:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Miscellaneous structures and street hardware shall be designed to be
part of the architectural concept of design and landscape. Materials shall be
compatible with buildings, scale shall be good, colors shall be in harmony with
buildings and surroundings, and proportions shall be attractive.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Lighting in connection with miscellaneous structures and street
hardware shall meet the criteria applicable to site, landscape, buildings and
signs.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Maintenance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Continued good appearance depends upon the extent and quality of
maintenance. The choice of materials and their use, together with the types of
finishes and other protective measures, must be conducive to easy maintenance
and upkeep.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Materials and finishes shall be selected for their durability and
wear as well as for their beauty. Proper measures and devices shall be
incorporated for protection against the elements, neglect, damage, and abuse.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Provision for washing and cleaning of buildings and structures and
control of dirt and refuse shall be included in the design. Configuration that
tends to catch and accumulate debris, leaves, trash, dirt, and rubbish shall be
avoided.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Evaluation Factors: The following factors and characteristics which
affect the appearance of a development will govern the ARC's evaluation of a
design submission:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conformance with ordinances and this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Logic of design;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Exterior space utilization;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Architectural character;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Attractiveness;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Material selection;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Harmony and compatibility;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Circulation; vehicular and pedestrian; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Maintenance aspects. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-8-5: MAINTENANCE AND UPKEEP:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In general, maintenance and upkeep are required for all the parts and
objects which compose the city's image. Lawns and plantings require
considerably more periodic attention than do buildings. Nonetheless, both
require maintenance in order to retain a good appearance. Improper and
inadequate maintenance decreases value and results in bad appearance.
Therefore, it is necessary that maintenance be a concern of the ARC.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each lot, premises, parking lot, landscaping and the exterior of all
buildings and structures in the business districts shall be maintained by its
owner in a good, clean and sightly condition, with special emphasis on the
appearance of said areas, and the intent and purpose of this chapter and all
other applicable ordinances of the city. Parking areas shall be kept free from
debris, and landscaped areas shall be well maintained. The exterior of all
buildings and structures shall be appropriately maintained to ensure the
exterior of the premises is clean, and appropriate maintenance is provided for
each exterior design feature. By way of example, the following shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Masonry areas shall be kept clean, uniform in appearance, and all
joints tuckpointed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Painted surfaces shall be kept clean and refinished as necessary to
ensure that no area of the exterior is faded, cracked or peeling.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All stucco, siding or shingled surfaces shall be kept clean and
repaired as necessary, to ensure an undamaged, nonfaded and uniform appearance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Glass areas shall be kept clean and shall be replaced if chipped or
broken.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â All canopies shall be kept clean and maintained in a good and
sightly condition, with faded or damaged fabric areas replaced and maintained,
and support structures maintained in a nondamaged condition.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In addition to the requirements set forth in subsection B of this
section, all vacant premises and structures, or portions thereof, in the
business districts shall be maintained as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The interior of the premises shall be kept free of debris.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All signs and exterior markings identifying the former business and
operation upon the premises shall be removed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All windows, doors and glass areas shall be treated so as to prevent
a view into the interior of the premises. This may be accomplished only by the
uniform use of horizontal or vertical blinds, professionally applied adhesive
film, or such other window covering or treatment approved by the city. Such
glass areas shall not be obscured using window soap, by a "board up" method, or
by paper or plastic sheeting.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Buildings and appurtenances, including signs, shall be cleaned and
painted or repaired as required to present a neat appearance. Deteriorated,
worn, or damaged portions shall be rebuilt or replaced.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Building and sign illuminated elements shall be replaced as required to
maintain the effect for which designed.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Signs shall be erected and secured properly and shall be cleaned or
painted regularly to present an orderly appearance. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-9: VARIATIONS, APPEALS AND REVIEW:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Variations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Findings Of Fact:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Sign Variations: Upon written application for a variation from
the regulations contained in this chapter for sign permit or approval required
hereunder, the ARC may recommend such variation following review of the
request. For example, the ARC may recommend approval of a proposed sign that
does not fully comply with the requirements of this chapter, or in the case of
an existing sign, approval for the continued use of said sign; provided, that
the ARC finds that an exception from the literal provisions of this chapter is
warranted as strict enforcement of this chapter would cause undue hardship
owing to circumstances unique to the individual property or which do not occur
generally to land or buildings in the neighborhood, and the ARC makes one or
more of the following findings of fact:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â That the proposed or existing sign is innovative and/or
creative;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â That the proposed or existing sign is compatible with
surrounding land uses and signs;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â That the granting of approval for this proposed or existing
sign is consistent with the overall purpose of this chapter; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â That due to unique circumstances or safety considerations,
the proposed or existing sign is aesthetically consistent with the environment,
and because of these circumstances or considerations, it is necessary that a
variation be granted for erection of the proposed sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Other Variations: Upon written application for a permit or
approval required hereunder or upon a request for a variation from the
regulations contained in this chapter, the ARC may recommend such variation
following review of the request. For example, the ARC may recommend approval of
a nonconforming refuse enclosure or landscape plan that does not fully comply
with the requirements of this chapter; provided, that the ARC finds that an
exception from the literal provisions of this chapter is warranted as strict
enforcement of this chapter would cause undue hardship owing to circumstances
unique to the individual property or which do not occur generally to land or
buildings in the neighborhood, and the ARC makes one or more of the following
findings of fact:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â That the proposed improvement is otherwise fully functional
and innovative and/or creative; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â That the proposed improvement is compatible with surrounding
land uses; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â That the granting of approval for this proposed improvement
is consistent with the overall purpose of this chapter; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â That due to unique circumstances or safety considerations,
the proposed improvement is aesthetically consistent with the environment, and
because of these circumstances or considerations, it is necessary that a
variation be granted for construction of the improvement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â ARC Recommendation: The approval of any proposed improvement which
does not comply with the enumerated specifications of this chapter and,
therefore, requires a variation from the provisions of this chapter, or any
other ordinance, shall be considered only a recommendation. Only after approval
of such recommendation by a majority vote of the Corporate Authorities shall
the Building Department issue the permit, provided the other conditions of this
chapter have been satisfied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â City Council Approval Or Denial: The recommendation approving a
variation shall be forwarded to the City Council for final approval. The City
Council may, by majority vote, approve or deny the variation in accordance with
the recommendation, or make such modifications as may be deemed advisable by
the City Council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Appeals: In the event a variation request is denied by the ARC, the
applicant may appeal such denial to the City Council. Written notice of such
appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten (10) days of notification
of the recommendation, denial, interpretation, or ruling. The City Council may,
by majority vote, approve or deny the requested variation in accordance with
the appeal, or make such modifications as may be deemed advisable by the City
Council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Other Appeals And Review:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any applicant aggrieved by any other ARC decision, recommendation or
denial, or by the official charged with the enforcement of this chapter, or by
any officer, department, board, commission, or committee of the City concerning
the interpretation of this chapter may take an appeal to the City Council.
Written notice of such appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten
(10) days of notification of the recommendation, denial, interpretation, or
ruling.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the building official certifies to the Mayor, in writing,
after notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property. In which case, the proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order which may be granted by a court of law or equity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â On written demand of any person filing an appeal, the City Council
shall, if practicable, hear the appeal at a regular meeting or special meeting
within thirty (30) days, and shall render its decision thereafter at a
scheduled Council meeting. At the hearing, parties of interest may appear in
person or by agent or attorney. The City Council shall be advised by the City
Attorney and may require him to be present at the hearing of the appeal. (Ord.
2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-10: FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fees pertaining to building permits, sign permits and variations and
for appeals to the ARC shall be established by action of the City Council from
time to time 1 . Such fees shall be paid to the City Collector, who shall give
a receipt and account for same at regular intervals to the City Council. (Ord.
2011-O-33, 9-20-2011)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 2, article A of this Code for building and sign
  permit fees.
10-3-11: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Signs: It is hereby the duty of the building official, or his designee,
to exercise supervision over all signs erected, altered or maintained, and to
cause inspection of all such signs to be made. Whenever it shall appear to the
building official that any such sign has been erected, altered or is being
maintained in violation of this chapter, he shall thereupon issue, or cause to
be issued, a notice in writing to the owner of such sign, or to the person
maintaining the same, or to the owner of the property upon which the sign is
placed informing such person, firm or corporation of the violation of this
chapter and directing him to make such corrections, alterations or repairs
thereto, and to do such acts or things as are necessary or advisable to place
such sign in a safe, substantial and secure condition, and to make the same
comply with the requirements of this chapter within such time period he may
determine reasonable. If the person so notified fails or neglects to comply
with the requirements of such notice, and the said sign falls within the terms
of this chapter, it shall be abated as provided herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Property: It is hereby the duty of the building official, or his
designee, to exercise supervision over provisions of this chapter and to cause
inspection of all such regulated properties, improvements and required
maintenance to be made. Whenever it shall appear to the building official that
any property or improvement has been erected, altered or is being maintained in
violation of this chapter, he may thereupon issue, or cause to be issued, a
notice in writing to the property owner or occupant, or to the person
maintaining the same, informing such person, firm or corporation of the
violation of this chapter and directing him to make such alterations or repairs
thereto, and to do such acts or things as are necessary or advisable to place
such property in compliance with the requirements of this chapter within such
time period he may determine to be reasonable. (Ord. 2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-12: NUISANCE PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nuisance Declared: Any and all signs or other improvements erected,
altered or maintained in violation of this chapter, or any of the clauses or
provisions of the same, or any property maintained in violation of this
chapter, or in violation of any of the laws of the city or state of Illinois,
are and each of them is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and subject to
treatment and abatement as such.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Abatement Required: Any such improvement so erected, altered or
maintained contrary to law shall be abated as a common nuisance by any officer
of the fire, police or building department after five (5) days' notice to
remove the same shall have been given to the property owner or occupant or the
person maintaining the same.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Abatement By City; Costs: If any nuisance is not abated as required
herein, the city may employ such resources as are necessary to abate or remove
the nuisance. Any and all costs incurred in the enforcement of this chapter or
abatement of the nuisance shall be assessed and shall be paid in full upon
notification of same to the person maintaining the nuisance, or the property
owner or occupant. In the event same are not paid as set forth in such billing
notification, then the city may cause to be filed a lien against the property
in which such public nuisance is located for the amount of such costs. (Ord.
2005-O-6, 2-1-2005)
10-3-13: CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS:
In the event that the city finds or any enforcement officer finds that the work
under any permit issued is not in conformance with the information supplied in
the approved permit application, and/or is in violation of this chapter or any
other ordinance of the city, or is found that there has been any
misrepresentation in connection with the application for the permit, the
applicant shall be notified of such findings, and the owner shall correct said
violations without delay. In the event said correction is not made within seven
(7) days of the date of the notification, the city may revoke the permit and
serve written notice thereof upon the applicant and its agents. (Ord. 2005-O-6,
2-1-2005)
10-3-14: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Sanitary Requirements
10-4-1: SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â Â Â  BUILDING: Shall include any and all structures of a temporary or permanent
nature within the city of Highwood.
Â Â Â ESTABLISHMENTS: Shall include any and all commercial businesses, including,
but not limited to, restaurants, taverns, laundries, grocery stores, drygoods
stores, beauty shops, barbershops, bakery shops, railroad stations, and the
like.
Â Â Â OPERATOR: Shall include any person, corporation, partnership, association or
the like which has possession, care, or control of any building or
establishment or any part thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Sanitary Premises Generally: Each operator of any building or
establishment shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition any place of
business which is open to or frequented by the general public.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Washrooms And Lavatories: Each operator of any building or
establishment which is open to or frequented by the general public shall keep
all toilets, washrooms and lavatories in good working condition and in a clean
and sanitary condition. All washrooms and lavatories shall be furnished with
hot and cold running water, soap and sanitary toweling. In addition, all
toilets, washrooms and lavatories shall be equipped with an automatic exhaust
fan system that is activated whenever the lights for said facilities are in
use.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Insect And Vermin Control: Each operator of any building or
establishment which is open to or frequented by the general public shall
eliminate and control any and all insects, rodents or vermin by lawful means.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Garbage And Refuse:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each operator of any building or establishment which is open to or
frequented by the general public shall have approved rubbish storage
facilities, approved garbage containers and approved garbage disposal
facilities, which type and location are such as to protect the health and
safety of the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Each operator of any building or establishment which is open to or
frequented by the general public shall keep his premises free of all litter,
trash, rubbish, garbage or other debris.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Sidewalks To Be Kept Clear: Each operator of any building or
establishment which is open to or frequented by the general public shall keep
the exterior area, including, but not limited to, sidewalks, alleys and parking
areas, free of any weeds, trash, litter, debris, ice and snow. (Ord. 78-O-1, 1-
6-1978)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person, partnership or corporation who shall violate any
provision of this section shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 5
WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-5-1: County Regulations Adopted
10-5-1: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â There is hereby adopted by reference, as if fully set out herein, that
certain ordinance known as the Lake County watershed development ordinance,
approved as amended by Lake County, three (3) copies of which are on file in
the office of the city clerk. Said Lake County watershed development ordinance,
as most recently amended by Lake County on June 11, 2013, is hereby adopted by
reference and is in full force and effect within the city and is found in its
own compilation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In the event the rules, regulations, terms or conditions imposed
pursuant to the Lake County watershed development ordinance are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable rules, regulations, terms or
conditions imposed by any other applicable rule, regulation, resolution,
ordinance, or statute of law, then the most restrictive rules, regulations,
terms or conditions shall govern. (Ord. 13-O-55, 9-17-2013)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purposes
11-1-3: Interpretation
11-1-4: Scope Of Regulations
11-1-5: Accessory Buildings
11-1-6: Garages In Residential Districts
11-1-7: Kitchens
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the CITY OF
HIGHWOOD ZONING ORDINANCE OF 2003. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-1-2: PURPOSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â This title is adopted for the following purposes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To protect and promote the physical, mental and public health,
safety, comfort, morals, convenience and general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Securing adequate natural light, unpolluted air, and safety from
fire hazards, fire and other dangers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To these ends, this title is designed to and intended to accomplish
certain standards and objectives by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Dividing the entire city into districts and restricting and
regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and
use of buildings, structures, and land, whether for residence, business,
manufacturing, or other specified uses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Avoiding or lessening congestion in the public streets.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Preventing the overcrowding of land through regulating and limiting
the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected as related to land area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Establishing, regulating, and limiting the building or setback lines
on or along streets, alleys, or property lines.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Establishing standards to which buildings or structures therein
shall conform.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Prohibiting uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of the residence, business, or manufacturing districts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Preventing additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way to avoid the restrictions and limitations
imposed hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Providing for the gradual elimination of those uses, buildings and
structures which are incompatible with the character of the districts in which
they are made or located, including, without being limited thereto:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Elimination of such uses of unimproved lands or lot areas when
the existing rights of the persons in possession thereof are terminated or when
the uses to which they are devoted are discontinued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Elimination of uses to which such buildings and structures are
devoted if they are adaptable for permitted use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Elimination of such buildings and structures when they are
destroyed or damaged in major part, as hereinafter provided, or when they have
reached the age fixed herein by the corporate authorities of the city as to the
normal useful life of such buildings or structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Providing for the acquisition by purchase, condemnation, or
otherwise of buildings or structures which do not conform to the standards
fixed by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Defining and limiting the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided hereinafter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â To regulate land uses pursuant to, and to accomplish the purpose of
the comprehensive plan of the city. However, the comprehensive plan shall be
advisory only and in and of itself shall not be construed or interpreted as
regulating or controlling the use of any private property, and it is not the
intent of the city that owners of private property should rely on
recommendations in the comprehensive plan being translated into presently
effective regulations. The decision as to whether and/or when particular
elements of the comprehensive plan will be implemented in regulatory ordinances
is reserved for the city council to make from time to time, taking into
account, among other factors, the type of development that is contemplated, and
the timing of such development in the context of the best advantage of the city
as a whole.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Avoiding or lessening the hazards to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumulation or runoff of stormwater or floodwater.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â To regulate land uses in accordance with the city master plan.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals, and welfare.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â More Restrictive Provisions Apply: Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this title upon the use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of
buildings are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other provision of this title, or of any other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
govern.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This title is not intended to
abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other private agreement; provided, that
where the regulations of this title are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or requirements than such easements, covenants, or other private
agreements, the regulations of this title shall govern.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Unlawful Structures: No building, structure, or use which was not
lawfully existing at the effective date hereof shall become or be made lawful
solely by reason of the adoption of this title; and to the extent that, and in
any manner that, said unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict with
the requirements of this title, said building, structure, or use remains
unlawful hereunder and shall not be considered a nonconforming use. (Ord. 2003-
O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compliance With Provisions: Without compliance with this title, nothing
contained in this title shall be deemed to be a consent, license, or permit to
use any property, or to locate, construct, or maintain any building, structure,
or facility, or to carry on any trade, industry, occupation, or activity. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Provisions Are Additional: The provisions of this title are cumulative
and additional limitations upon all other laws and ordinances heretofore passed
or which may be passed hereafter governing any subject matter in this title.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Severability:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each portion, clause, sentence, paragraph, and section of this title
shall be deemed separate, and the invalidity of any portion, clause, sentence,
paragraph, or section of this title shall not affect the validity of, or
affect, impair or invalidate the remainder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event any portion, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of
this title or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall for
any reason be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such
judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this title or
its application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If any provision of this title is capable of two (2) constructions,
one of which would render this title invalid as to such provision and the other
of which would make the agreement valid as to such provision, then the
provision shall have the meaning which renders the agreement valid. (Ord. 2003-
O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-1-4: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Generally:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established hereafter, and all structural alteration or relocation of existing
buildings occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this title
which are applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, uses, or
land shall be located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The following regulations shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Mobile Homes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â A mobile home shall not be permitted as an accessory building
or structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â A mobile home shall not be erected, used, or maintained for
dwelling or lodging uses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Tents: No tent shall be erected, used, or maintained for dwelling
or lodging uses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Fences, walls, hedges, or shrubbery may be erected, placed,
maintained, or grown along a lot line in accordance with regulations set forth
in the applicable city ordinance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Not more than one principal detached residential building shall be
located on a lot, nor shall a principal detached residential building be
located on the same lot with any other principal building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â However, where a building permit for a building or structure has
been issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date hereof, and
provided construction is begun within six (6) months of such effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion, said building or structure may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans on the basis of which the
building permit has been issued, and further may, upon completion, be occupied
under a certificate of occupancy by the use for which originally designated,
subject thereafter to the provisions of chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2003-O-
15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â All land which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall be
automatically classified in the R-1 residential district pending a public
hearing by the plan commission, or joint plan commission as to proposed
annexation of land lying in Fort Sheridan, and final action by the city
council. No buildings or structures shall be erected on such land until an
ordinance establishing the zoning district classification shall have been
passed by the city council. Such public hearing shall be held within sixty (60)
days after the effective date of any such annexation, and final action thereon
shall be taken by the city council within thirty (30) days after the last
adjournment of the said public hearings. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Lot Size Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered
or enlarged nor shall any use of land be established or enlarged on a lot which
is smaller in area than the minimum lot area prescribed for the zoning district
and/or use in which the building, structure or land is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered
or enlarged nor shall any use of land be established or enlarged on a tract of
land the width of which is less than the minimum lot width prescribed for the
zoning district in which the building, structure or land is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No building or other structure shall be converted so as to conflict,
or further conflict, with the lot area per dwelling unit requirements for the
district in which such building or structure is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No building containing dwelling units shall hereafter be converted
unless the gross floor area, not including basement, when divided by the number
of dwelling units within the building or structure, produces a quotient of at
least one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Building Bulk Regulations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected, altered
or enlarged so as to exceed the lot coverage and/or impervious surface lot
coverage percentage for the district in which the building or structure is
located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â When a maximum building height is specified in any district or for
any particular type of building or other structure, then no such building or
structure shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged so as to exceed such
maximum building height.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â When a floor area ratio is specified in any district or for any
particular type of building or other structure, then no such building or
structure shall hereafter be erected, altered or enlarged so as to exceed such
floor area ratio.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â a. No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected,
altered or enlarged nor shall any use of land be established or enlarged unless
the coverage restrictions and the minimum front, side and rear yards specified
for the district in which such building, structure or use of land is located
are maintained. All additions to principal buildings including attached garages
shall comply with the yard requirements for the principal building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Notwithstanding the above, owners of existing one- and two-
family dwellings that are built upon lots that do not meet the minimum lot
width, depth or area requirements for the zoning district may erect or maintain
one accessory structure, the area of which, when added to the principal
structure, does not exceed a lot coverage of thirty five percent (35%), and
otherwise complies with all other requirements of the building codes and this
title. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-1-5: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Scope: The provisions of this section shall apply to all accessory
buildings permitted under this title. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Height: No accessory building or garage shall hereafter be erected,
altered, relocated or enlarged so as to exceed fifteen feet (15') in height;
except, that this limitation shall not apply to private garages which are
attached to the principal building; public garages (in any business district);
storage garages (in any business district); and bus or truck garages (in any
business district). (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Construction And Occupancy Of Principal Building Required: No accessory
building or structure shall be constructed and occupied on any lot prior to the
time of the completion of the construction of the principal building to which
it is accessory.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Location; Setbacks:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any accessory building shall be located in a rear yard.
Notwithstanding any other rear yard or side yard setback, such accessory
building is permitted to be located no less than five feet (5') from the rear
or side yard lot line in any residential district. Further provided, that the
overhang of any accessory building is permitted to be no less than three feet
(3') from any rear or side yard lot line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An accessory building shall be no closer than ten feet (10') from
any principal building on the immediate or attached lot unless attached and a
part of such principal building.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Lot Coverage: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 11-1-4C4 of
this chapter, existing one- and two-family dwellings that are built upon lots
that do not meet the minimum lot width, depth or area requirements for the
zoning district may erect or maintain one accessory structure, the area of
which, when added to the principal structure, does not exceed a lot coverage of
thirty five percent (35%), and otherwise complies with all other requirements
of the building codes and this title.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Termination Of Use: No accessory building or use shall continue after
the principal use or structure has been terminated, unless such accessory
building or use thereafter conforms to all regulations of the zoning district
in which it is located. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-1-6: GARAGES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No portion of a building or structure in a residential district which
is designated as, or may be converted to, use as a private garage may face the
street or public way if such garage is attached to the principal structure and
exceeds thirty three and one-third percent (331/3%) of the dimension of the
building or structure facing any street or public way (331/3 percent of the
total length of such facade). The above shall not apply to a private garage
located in a side yard, so long as the garage is located in the front yard, and
the front facade of the structure complies with the provisions of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the total length of the building or structure (facade) exceeds sixty
feet (60'), then such portion of the building or structure which is designated
as, or may be converted to a private garage, is attached to the principal
structure, and which faces the street or public way, may not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the facade facing any street or public way (50 percent of the
total length of such facade), and in no event shall the portion of the garage
dedicated to vehicular entry and exit (garage door openings) exceed thirty six
(36) linear feet.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Wherever practicable, garage doors shall not face the street or public
way unless approved by the zoning administrator.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No building or structure which is designated as or may be converted to
use as a private detached garage may be located within fifty percent (50%) of
the lot depth from the front lot line. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-1-7: KITCHENS:
Kitchens: Cooking facilities, kitchen or kitchen facilities shall not be
permitted in any habitable space or basement unless approved as a kitchen area
through a certificate of occupancy. No cooking facility, kitchen or kitchen
facilities or appliance shall be permitted to be present and/or in use in any
other habitable space or basement unless specifically approved in writing by
the zoning administrator. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. Ord. 21-O-26, 10-19-
2021)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Application Of Provisions
11-2-2: Rules Of Construction
11-2-3: Definitions
11-2-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In the construction of this title, the rules and definitions contained in this
chapter shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-2-2: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include plural number, and the plural the
singular.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The word "may" is permissive.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The word "lot" shall include the words "tract", "plot", "piece", and
"parcel"; the word, "building" includes all other structures of every kind
regardless of similarity to buildings; and the phrase "used for" shall include
the phrases "arranged for", "designed for", "intended for", "maintained for",
and "occupied for".
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any words not defined in section
11-2-3 of this chapter shall be construed in their general accepted meanings as
defined by Webster's Dictionary.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The section headings used in this title are included solely for
convenience and shall not affect nor be used in connection with the
interpretation of this title. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ARC OR APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMITTEE: The appearance review committee of the city
of Highwood (formerly known as the CDC or community development committee)
formed pursuant to the terms of the city of Highwood appearance code 1 .
ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE: One which:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Is detached (accessory building or structure) and subordinate to and
which is incidental to the dominant use of the principal building or principal
use.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Is subordinate in area, extent, or dominant purpose of the principal
building or principal use served.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants of
the principal building or principal use served.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal use served with the
single exception of such accessory off street parking facilities as are
permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning lot with the building or
use served.
ACCESSORY USE: Includes, but is not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A children's playhouse, garden house, and private greenhouse.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A garage, carport, shed or building for domestic storage.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Incinerators incidental to the principal use.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot with
any retail service or business use, unless such storage is excluded by the
district regulations.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities on the
same lot or parcel of ground with such activities, unless such storage is
excluded by the district regulations.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Off street motor vehicle parking areas and loading and unloading
facilities as permitted and regulated in each district incorporated in this
title.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Signs (other than advertising signs) as permitted and regulated in each
district incorporated in this title.
ACCESSORY USE, FINANCIAL: Any use of a portion of a building or structure where
the principal purpose is conducting financial transactions. This includes, but
is not limited to, check cashing services, money transfer or wiring services,
and electronic fund transfer services. An "accessory financial use" shall not
be deemed to include any automated teller machine or any use noted as "P" or
"permitted" pursuant to the "permitted and special use matrix" (subsection 11-
6-2C of this title) and/or financial transactions which are necessary to
complete transactions for other permitted uses.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and platted.
ALLEY: A public way, not more than thirty feet (30') wide, which affords only a
secondary means of vehicular access to abutting property. A street shall not be
considered an "alley".
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, must always be included for
each "apartment".
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; auto collision service, including body,
frame or fender straightening or repair; and painting of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor
service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under the
definition of "automobile repair, major" of this section.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A place where gasoline, stored only in underground
tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease, for operation of automobiles, is
offered for sale directly to the public on the premises, and including minor
accessories and services for automobiles, but not including major automobile
repairs; and including washing of automobiles where no chain conveyor, blower
or steam cleaning device is employed. When the dispensing, sale or offering for
sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the
premises shall be classified as a "public garage".
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open, and are not being
restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or
storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, and including any used farm
vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and not being
restored to operating condition; and including the commercial salvaging of any
other goods, articles, or merchandise.
AWNING: A rooflike mechanism which projects from the wall of a building or
overhangs a public way for the purpose of affording weather protection to
doorways and windows.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground.
BEDROOMS: Rooms in a dwelling unit (other than kitchens, dining rooms, living
rooms, bathrooms or closets), including, but not limited to, extra kitchens,
dining rooms, living rooms and all dens, game rooms, sun rooms or similar extra
rooms. "Bedrooms" shall include any room or space used, intended to be used, or
capable of being used for sleeping purposes.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which there are signs or
advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to announce church services or to display official court
or public office notices, or signs advertising the sale or lease of the
premises on which the sign is located.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation for four (4) or more persons, but not more than
twelve (12), who are not members of the keeper's family.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets, and
public parks, railroad rights of way or bulkhead lines. A "block" may be
located, in part, beyond the boundary lines of the corporate limits of the city
of Highwood.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows, or openings; and
which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure, or protection of
persons, animals, or chattels. References to "building" includes all other
structures of every kind regardless of similarity to buildings. "Buildings"
shall include miscellaneous structures such as telecommunications enclosures,
vaults, switching stations and transmitting facilities.
BUILDING AREA: The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open space
requirements of this title have been complied with.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A "completely enclosed building" is a building
separated on all sides from the adjacent open space, or from other buildings or
other structures, by a permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls,
pierced only by windows and normal entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or its
equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building
to the highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof, to the deck line
of a mansard roof, and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of a
gable, hip, or gambrel roof; provided, that where buildings are set back from
the street line, the height of the building may be measured from the average
elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
BUILDING LINE: The line nearest the front of and across a lot establishing the
minimum open space to be provided between the front line of a building or
structure and the street right of way line.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building which does not conform to the regulations
of this title prescribing the maximum required yards, coverage, height and
setbacks; minimum required spacing between buildings on a single lot; and
minimum required usable open space for the district in which such building is
located.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A "principal building" is a nonaccessory building in which
a principal use of the lot on which it is located is conducted.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line parallel to the street line at a distance
regulated by the front yard requirements set by this title.
BULK: The term used to describe the size and mutual relationship of buildings
and other structures, as to size, height, coverage, shape, location of exterior
walls in relation to lot lines, to the centerline of streets, to other walls of
the same building, and to other buildings or structures, and to all open spaces
relating to the building or structure.
BUS LOT: Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
BUSINESS: An occupation, employment or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor, and materials; or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold;
or where services are offered.
CARTAGE, LOCAL: Pick up and delivery of parcels, packages and freight by motor
truck within and not exceeding fifteen (15) miles of the city.
CELLAR: See definition of Basement.
CITY: The city of Highwood, Illinois.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
CITY COLLECTOR: The city collector of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
CLINIC OR MEDICAL CENTER: See subsection 11-6-2B of this title.
CLOSED CUP FLASH POINT: The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid,
under prescribed conditions, will give off a flammable vapor which will burn
momentarily.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A "private club or lodge" is a nonprofit association of
persons, who are bona fide members paying annual dues, which owns, hires, or
leases a building, or portion thereof, the use of such premises being
restricted to members and their guests.
COLUMBARIUM: A vault with niches for cinerary urns.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The official comprehensive plan of the city of Highwood 2 ,
adopted May 13, 1996, as amended from time to time.
CORNER LOT: See definition of Lot, Corner.
CORNER LOT, REVERSED: See definition of Lot, Reversed Corner.
COVERAGE, LOT: See definition of Lot Coverage.
CRAFT GROWER: A "craft grower," as defined in the Illinois Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1 et seq.), as amended, and is
operated in strict compliance with State law, and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, applicable thereto.
CULTIVATION CENTER: A "cultivation center," as defined in the Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1 et seq.), as
amended, and is operated in strict compliance with State law, and the
regulations promulgated thereunder, applicable thereto.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of the building measured
at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street,
the "curb level" shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center
of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the
mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building shall be considered
the "curb level".
DUPLEX OR DUPLEX DWELLING: A single building containing a two- family dwelling
or two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for human
habitation, including single-family, two- family, and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, or rooming houses.
DWELLING, GROUP: Two (2) or more one-family, two-family or multiple-family
dwellings, located on one zoning lot, but not including tourists courts, motels
or hotels.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof containing three (3)
or more dwelling units, but not including a motel, hotel or rooming house.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY - LOW DENSITY: A building, not in excess of two (2)
stories, or portion thereof, containing three (3) or more dwelling units, but
not including a motel, hotel or rooming house.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for use and occupancy by
one family and entirely separated from any other dwelling by space.
DWELLING, ROW (Party Wall): A row of two (2) to eight (8) attached, one-family,
party wall dwellings, not more than two and one-half (21/2) stories in height,
nor more than two (2) rooms in depth measured from the building line.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A single building designed or altered to provide dwelling
units for occupancy by two (2) families.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a residential structure or apartment-hotel
designed for occupancy by one family. Individual bathrooms and complete
individual kitchen facilities permanently installed to serve such family shall
be included within each "dwelling unit".
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS: Public, parochial, charitable or nonprofit
organizations, junior college, college or university, other than trade or
business schools, including instructional and recreational uses, with or
without living quarters, dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants and other
incidental facilities for students, teachers and employees.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room, exclusive of
bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining alcove directly off the
principal room; provided, that such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred
twenty five (125) square feet in area.
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CENTER: A terminal at which electric energy is received
from the transmission system and is delivered to the distribution system only.
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION: A terminal at which electric energy is received from the
transmission system and is delivered to other elements of the transmission
system, and generally, to the local distribution system.
ELEEMOSYNARY INSTITUTION: A building or group of buildings provided and
supported by charitable donations and devoted to charitable uses.
ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS: A place of business carrying on operations, the
ownership and management of which are separate and distinct from those of any
other place of business located on the same zoning lot. Direct access to each
"business establishment" shall be separate and distinct from direct access to
any other "business establishment", and in no case shall there be access to one
such establishment from within another such establishment.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or adoption, living together in a dwelling unit, or a group of not more than
four (4) persons who need not be related by blood or marriage or adoption,
living as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit, and sharing common
facilities as considered reasonably appropriate for a family related by blood,
marriage or adoption.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Floor Area Ratio): The sum of the gross horizontal
areas of the several floors of the building measured from the exterior faces of
the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two (2)
buildings. The "floor area" of a building shall include basement floor area
when more than one-half (1/2) of the basement height is above the established
curb level, or above the finished lot grade level where the curb level has not
been established; elevator shafts and stairwells to each floor; floor space
used for mechanical equipment, except equipment, open or enclosed, located on
the roof; penthouses; attic space having headroom of seven feet ten inches
(7'10") or more; interior balconies and mezzanines; enclosed porches; and floor
area devoted to accessory uses. (Floor area devoted to off street parking or
loading shall not be included in "floor area" of the building. The floor area
of structures devoted to bulk storage of materials, including, but not limited
to, grain elevators and petroleum storage tanks, shall be determined on the
basis of the height of such structures in feet; 10 feet in height shall equal 1
floor. If a structure measured more than 5 feet over such floor equivalent, it
shall be construed to have an additional floor.)
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Off Street Parking And Off Street Loading
Requirements): The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of
the building or portion thereof devoted to such use, including accessory
storage areas located within selling or working space such as counters, racks,
or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the
production or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
"Floor area" shall not include:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Floor area devoted primarily to storage purposes except as otherwise
noted herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Floor area devoted to off street parking or loading facilities,
including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Basement floor area, other than area devoted to retailing activities
and the production or processing of goods, or to business or professional
offices.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The floor area within a building or buildings on a zoning lot
divided by the area of such zoning lot or, in the case of planned developments,
by the net site area. ("Floor area ratio" requirements, as set forth under each
zoning district, shall determine the maximum floor area allowable for the
building or buildings, including the total floor area of both principal and
accessory buildings, in direct ratio to the gross area to the zoning lot.)
FORT SHERIDAN: The property that has heretofore been designated as a federal
military reservation which is legally described in the Fort Sheridan
retrocession law of 1992, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 541/20-5.
FREE BURNING: Implies the rate of combustion described by a material which
burns actively, and easily supports combustion.
FREQUENCY: Signifies the number of oscillations per second in a sound wave and
is an index of the pitch of the resulting sound.
FRONTAGE (Of A Block): All the property fronting on one side of a street
measured along the line of the street. If the street is dead ended, the
"frontage" is measured by the dead end of the street.
FRONTAGE, LOT: All the property of such lot fronting on a street and measured
between side lot lines.
GARAGE, BUS: Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of three
(3) or more passenger motor buses, or motor coaches used in public
transportation, including school buses.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building, or portion of the principal
building, designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of
passenger automobiles, or one truck not more than one and one-half (11/2) tons'
capacity, of the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
incidental servicing and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire, or sales within the structure, but
not including trucks, tractors, truck-trailers, and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GARAGE, STORAGE: A building or premises used for the housing only of motor
vehicles pursuant to previous arrangements and not by transients; and where no
equipment or parts are sold; and vehicles are not rebuilt, serviced, repaired,
hired, or sold; except, that fuel, grease, or oil may be dispensed within the
building to vehicles stored therein.
GARAGE, TRUCK: A building which is used or intended to be used for the storage
of motor trucks, truck-trailers, tractors and commercial vehicles exceeding one
and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GRADE: An average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building or structure.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area covered by a building, measured from the
exterior faces of the exterior walls, but excluding open porches or terraces,
garages or carports.
GUESTHOUSE: Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on the
same premises with the principal building for occasional use of temporary
guests of the occupants of the principal building. Such quarters shall not be
rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
HIGHWOOD/HIGHLAND PARK INTERGOVERNMENTAL PLANNING AGREEMENT OF 1996 OR 2H
AGREEMENT: The intergovernmental agreement dated September 27, 1996, and
adopted by the city of Highwood pursuant to ordinance 96-O-24 and by the city
of Highland Park pursuant to ordinance 51-96, as same may be amended from time.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation or profession customarily carried on by an
occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to
the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes. Such a "home occupation"
shall be carried on wholly within the principal building or within a building
accessory thereto, and not more than one person outside the family shall be
employed. There shall be no exterior display, no exterior sign except as
allowed in the sign regulations for the district in which such "home
occupation" is located, no exterior storage of materials, no other exterior
indication of the "home occupation" or variation from the residential character
of the principal building, and no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odors, heat or glare shall be produced.
HOSPITAL OR SANITARIUM: An institution open to the public in which patients or
injured persons are given medical or surgical care; or for the care of
contagious diseases or incurable patients.
HOTEL: A building which is arranged and designed for rooms or suites reserved
with bathroom and closet space, located on a single zoning lot to provide
living and sleeping accommodations for transient or temporary guests, making
use of the facilities for a period of less than thirty (30) days and with no
provisions in the said rooms or suites for cooking facilities.
HOUSEHOLDER: The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or lessee
thereof.
IBC: The international building code (as adopted by the city of Highwood).
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: The area of a lot improved in any manner, including, but
not limited to, all buildings, structures, accessory buildings, paved areas
(i.e., brick, asphalt, concrete, stone, gravel, or other hard surface),
sidewalks, patios, decks, or nonorganic ground covering materials.
INCOMPATIBLE USE: A use or service which is incapable of direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruent, or
discordant. The zoning board of appeals will study the use or service and
decide on all cases of compatibility or incompatibility.
INFUSER ORGANIZATION: An "infuser" or "infuser organization" as defined in the
Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/
1 et seq.), as amended, and is operated in strict compliance with State law,
and the regulations promulgated thereunder, applicable thereto.
INTEGRATED CENTER: A grouping of compatible uses on a single zoning lot (under
single ownership or unified control).
JPC OR FORT SHERIDAN JOINT PLAN COMMISSION: A commission authorized pursuant to
section 11-12-13 of the Illinois municipal code 3 , and the "Highwood/Highland
Park intergovernmental planning agreement of 1996", with the jurisdiction and
powers set forth in said agreement.
JUNKYARD: Open areas of land and any accessory building or structure thereon
where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags, or similar materials are bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled, including auto and
building wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses taking place entirely
within a completely enclosed building.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot, premises or portion thereof on which more than
four (4) dogs, cats, and other household domestic animals over four (4) months
of age are kept, or on which more than two (2) such animals are maintained,
bred, cared for or boarded for compensation or kept for sale.
LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL: A place devoted to experimental study or testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly, or packaging of products is not included
with this definition.
LIGHT LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized for measurement of the intensity
of light in foot-candles.
LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY: A trafficway, including freeways and expressways, in
respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other
persons have no legal right of access to or from the same, except at such
points and in such a manner as may be determined by the authority having
jurisdiction over such trafficway.
LINE OF A BUILDING (For Measuring Yards): A line parallel to the nearest lot
line drawn through the point of a building or group of buildings nearest to
such lot line, exclusive of such features specified as being permitted to
extend into a yard.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open, hard surfaced area of land
other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor trucks, tractors, and trailers to
avoid undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. Such space
shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width and twenty five feet (25') in
length, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering spaces.
LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open to the public or to overnight guests.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities, and with or without an individual bathroom. A suite of
rooms without cooking facilities shall be counted as one "lodging room" for the
purpose of this title.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted in
this title, including one principal building, together with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by this title, and
having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved
place.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of the block.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a lot occupied by "buildings", "structures",
"accessory buildings", and/or "impervious surface", as defined in this section.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT FRONTAGE: The "front of a lot" shall be that boundary of a lot along a
public street; for a corner lot, the owner may elect either street line as the
front lot line.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front property line of a zoning lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A side lot line common with another lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: The "rear lot line" is the lot line or lot lines most nearly
parallel to and most remote from the front lot line. Lot lines other than front
or rear lot lines are side lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of the subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds; or a parcel of land, the
deed to which was recorded in the office of the said recorder prior to the
effective date hereof.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
LOT WIDTH: The minimum horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured
at right angles to the lot depth at the established front building line.
LOT, ZONING: See definition of Zoning Lot.
MANUFACTURE: The making, fabricating, processing, assembling or repairing of
anything by any agency or process, or storing, cleaning, servicing or testing
of materials, goods or products.
MARQUEE OR CANOPY: A rooflike structure of a permanent nature which projects
from the wall of a building and overhangs the public way.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Highwood, Illinois.
MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or portable structure constructed so as to permit
occupancy thereof for lodging or dwelling purposes or for use as an accessory
building or structure in the conduct of a business, trade, or occupation, and
which is designed and constructed so that it is, or may be, mounted on wheels
and used as a conveyance on streets and highways, and which is propelled or
drawn by its own or other motive power.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel or tract of land developed with facilities for
locating three (3) or more mobile homes, provided each mobile home contains a
kitchen, flush toilet, and shower or bath, and that such "mobile home park"
shall be for use only by nontransient dwellers remaining continuously for more
than one month, whether or not a charge is made. (The term shall not include a
sales lot in which automobiles or unoccupied trailers are parked for purpose of
inspection or sale.)
MODERATE BURNING: Implies a rate of combustion described by material which
supports combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns.
MOTEL: An establishment consisting of a group of attached or detached living or
sleeping accommodations with bathroom and closet space, located on a single
zoning lot and designed for use temporarily by transient automobile tourists,
making use of the facilities for a period of less than thirty (30) days, with
garage attached or parking space conveniently located to each unit, including
auto courts, motels, motor lodges or other similar type uses, and which
furnishes customary hotel services.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building in which freight, brought to said building
by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate and
interstate shipment by motor truck.
MOTOR TRUCK REPAIR SHOP: A premises where motor trucks, tractors, truck-
trailers, and industrial and commercial vehicles in excess of one-half (1/2)
ton capacity, or their bodies, are overhauled, rebuilt or repaired.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by a use
or lawfully established at the effective date hereof, or amendments hereto,
which does not conform after said effective date, or amendments hereto, with
all the use regulations of this title.
NOXIOUS MATTER: Material which is capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the
psychological, physical, social, or economic well being of individuals.
NURSERY, DAY: An institution providing care for three (3) or more children
under the age of four (4) years for periods of more than four (4) hours but not
exceeding twenty four (24) hours.
NURSERY SCHOOL: An institution providing daycare for children from four (4) to
six (6) years of age.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private home for the care of children or the aged
or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but not
including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for surgical
care.
OCTAVE BAND: A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves in
order to classify sound according to pitch.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals.
ODOR, THRESHOLD VALUE: The minimum concentration of odorous material in the air
which can be detected as determined by the Manufacturing Chemists Association
or other qualified laboratory.
ODOROUS MATTER: Any material or matter that yields an odor which is offensive
as related to odor threshold value.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying, selling or
renting merchandise stored or displayed out of doors prior to sale. (Such
merchandise includes, but is not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, motor
scooters, motorcycles, boats and monuments.)
PARCEL DELIVERY STATION: A building in which commodities, sold at retail within
the area and packaged by the retailer, are assembled and routed for delivery to
retail customers located within the area.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open, hard surfaced area of land, other than a street
or public way, designed, arranged, and made available for the storage of
private passenger automobiles only of occupants of the building or buildings
for which the parking area is developed and is accessory.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street or
public way, intended to be used for the storage of passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one- half (11/2) tons' capacity, and
available to the public, whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation
to clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: Space within a parking area of not less than the
size permitted under title, and where not specified, no less than one hundred
sixty two (162) square feet (9 feet by 18 feet), exclusive of access drives or
aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work areas, for the storage of one
passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-half (11/2) tons'
capacity, with ingress and egress to and from a street or alley.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid or solid at atmospheric pressure
and temperature.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criteria established to control noise, smoke and
particulate matter, odor, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and
explosive hazards, glare, heat or radiation generated by or inherent in uses of
land or buildings.
PLAN COMMISSION: The Highwood plan commission 4 .
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land which is developed as a unit under single
ownership or control, which includes two (2) or more principal buildings,
developed under unified ownership or control, and where certain requirements of
a given district may be modified in accordance with specific standards and
procedures.
PORCH: A roofed over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a main
structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING: A building which includes overhang. See definition of
Building, Principal.
PROPERTY LINES: The lines bounding a "lot" as defined in this section.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm, corporation or municipal department, duly
authorized to furnish, under public regulation, to the public, electricity,
gas, steam, telephone, telegraph, transportation or water.
PUBLIC WAY: Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway, or other public thoroughfare.
PYROPHORIC DUST: A dust in a finely divided state that is spontaneously
combustible in air.
RADIATION HAZARDS: The deleterious and harmful effects of all ionizing
radiation, which shall include all radiation capable of producing ions in their
passage through matter.
RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car or locomotive shops, or water towers, or car yards.
RECREATIONAL CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITY: A "dispensing organization," as
defined in the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 705/1 et seq.), as amended, and is operated in strict compliance with
State law, and the regulations promulgated thereunder, applicable thereto.
RESTAURANT: A building where the principal use is to prepare, serve and sell
food and/or beverages.
RINGELMANN CHART: The chart described in the U.S. bureau of mines information
circular no. 6888, as amended.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density of emission.
SETBACK LINE, BUILDING: See definition of Building Setback Line.
SIGN: A. A name, identification, description, display, device, or illustration
which is affixed to, or painted, or represented directly or indirectly upon a
building, structure, or piece of land, and which directs attention to an
object, product, place, person, activity, institution, organization, or
business.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â However, a "sign" shall not include any display of official court or
public office notices nor shall it include the flag, emblem or insignia of a
nation, political unit, school or religious group. A "sign" shall not include a
sign located completely within an enclosed building unless the context shall so
indicate.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: An "advertising sign" is a sign which directs attention to a
business, commodity, service, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered
elsewhere than upon the premises where such sign is located, or to which it is
affixed.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, FLASHING: A "flashing sign" is any illuminated sign on which the
artificial light is not maintained stationary and/or constant in intensity and
color at all times when such sign is in use. For the purpose of this title, any
revolving, illuminated sign shall be considered a "flashing sign".
SIGN, GROSS SURFACE AREA OF: The "gross surface area of a sign" shall be the
entire area within a single continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits
of such sign and in no case passing through or between any adjacent elements of
same. However, such perimeter shall not include any structural or framing
elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not forming an integral part
of the display.
SLOW BURNING (OR INCOMBUSTIBLE): Implies materials which do not in themselves
constitute an active fuel for the spread of combustion. (A material which will
not ignite or actively support combustion during an exposure of 5 minutes to a
temperature of 1,200 degrees Fahrenheit shall be designated as
"incombustible").
SMOKE UNITS: Represent the number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in
Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every minute
during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it is observed; and the various products are added
together to give the total number of "smoke units" observed during the total
period under observation.
SOUND LEVEL: The intensity of sound measured in decibels.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of the intensity of sound.
SPECIAL USE: Any use of land or building, or both, described and permitted
herein.
STABLE, LIVERY: Any building, other than a private stable, designed, arranged,
used or intended to be used for the storage of horses or horse drawn vehicles,
or both.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a basement or cellar, included
between the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or
if there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it. Any portion of a "story" exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height
shall be considered as an additional "story" for each fourteen feet (14') or
fraction thereof.
STORY, HALF: A "half story" is that portion of a building under a gable, hip or
mansard roof, the wall plates of which, on at least two (2) opposite exterior
walls, are not more than four and one- half feet (41/2') above the finished
floor of such story. In the case of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings,
and multiple- family dwellings less than three (3) stories in height, a "half
story" in a sloping roof shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of
this title. In the case of multiple-family dwellings three (3) or more stories
in height, a "half story" shall be counted as a story.
STREET: A public way other than an alley.
STREET LINE: A line separating an abutting lot, piece or parcel from a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change to the supporting members of a building or
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial
change in the roof or exterior walls, not including openings in bearing walls
as permitted by other ordinances.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected above grade, the use of which
requires permanent or temporary location on the ground, or anything attached to
something having a permanent location on or in the ground. References to
"structure" shall in all cases be deemed to refer to both structures and
buildings. Patios, driveways, and walks at grade shall not be deemed to be
"structures" under this title. "Structures" shall include miscellaneous
structures such as telecommunication enclosures, walls, switching stations and
transmitting facilities.
TAVERN: A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises, but
not including restaurants where the principal business is serving food.
TERRACE, OPEN: A level and rather narrow plane or platform which, for the
purpose of this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the
principal structure and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in
height above the average level of adjoining ground.
THIS TITLE: Reference to "this title" herein shall be construed as the Highwood
zoning ordinance.
TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which accommodations are provided or offered for
transient guests, making use of the facilities for a period of less than thirty
(30) days.
TRAILER: See definition of Mobile Home.
TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD: Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, tractors, and truck- trailers, and including
commercial vehicles, while not loading or unloading, and which exceed one and
one-half (11/2) tons in capacity.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses.
USE, PROPERTY: The purpose or activity for which the land or buildings thereon
is designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
(It includes any manner of performance standards of this title.)
USED CAR LOT: A lot on which used cars, trailers or trucks are displayed for
sale or trade.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or group
of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends along a
lot line and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located.
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A side yard which adjoins a street.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of a building.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another zoning lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another zoning
lot.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
YARD, SIDE: That part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building including overhang and a side lot line, and extending from
the required front yard (or from the front lot line, if there is no required
front yard) to the required rear yard.
YARD, TRANSITIONAL: That yard which must be provided on a zoning lot in a
business district which adjoins a zoning lot in a residence district.
ZONING BOARD: The zoning board of appeals of the city of Highwood, Illinois 5 .
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas within the limits of the city for which the
regulations and requirements governing use, lot, and bulk of buildings and
premises are uniform.
ZONING LOT: A single tract of land located within a single block which (at the
time of filing for a building permit) is designated by its owner or developer
as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under single
ownership or control. Therefore, a "zoning lot" may or may not coincide with a
lot of record, but shall require a consolidation as provided herein.
ZONING MAPS: The map or maps incorporated into this title as a part hereof.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 19-O-18, 10-1-2019)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-3-5 of this code.
2 1. See title 1, chapter 10 of this code.
3 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-13.
4 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
5 1. See title 2, chapter 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Joint Planning Commission Preemption
11-3-2: Zoning Administrator
11-3-3: Building Permit
11-3-4: Certificate/Report Of Compliance
11-3-5: Use Permit
11-3-6: Continuance Of Existing Uses
11-3-7: Appeals And Review
11-3-8: Amendments
11-3-9: Fees
11-3-10: Consolidation Plat Required
11-3-11: Penalty
11-3-1: JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION PREEMPTION:
Subject to the provisions of title 2, chapter 3, "Fort Sheridan Joint Planning
Commission", of this code which, where applicable, shall supersede the
following, hearings and review hereunder shall not be required to the extent
that same have been held pursuant to said title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Appointment: The zoning administrator will be appointed by the mayor
and confirmed by the city council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Powers And Duties; Limitations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The zoning administrator shall be responsible for enforcing this
title and shall have the power to see that the provisions of this title are
properly enforced. However, the zoning administrator has no authority to allow
or grant any variation or use or change.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No building permit will be issued by the building official/code
official until the zoning administrator has stated in writing that the building
or structure and use of land comply with the regulations of this title. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3-3: BUILDING PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered until a building permit shall be issued by the building
official/code official stating that the building or structure and use of land
comply with the regulations of this title and all building and health laws and
ordinances of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Approval Or Denial Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All applications for permits and amendments thereto for the
erection, construction, alteration or repair of buildings or structures located
in any business district, or the erection, construction, alteration or repair
or any sign in the city, must be approved or denied by the building official/
code official within a reasonable time of said application, in writing. All
applications for building permits in any business district shall also be
approved or denied within a reasonable time, in writing, by the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The zoning administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The fire chief or his designee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The appearance review committee as to the exterior appearance of
the said proposed building or structure.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Plat Required; Record Of Applications: All applications for building
permits shall be accompanied by a plat drawn to scale showing the actual
dimensions of the lot or lots to be built upon, any easements or licenses, the
size of the building or structure to be erected or structurally altered, its
location on the lot or lots and such other information as may be necessary to
provide for the enforcement of these regulations. A careful record of such
applications and plats shall be kept in the office of the city clerk.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Amendments: This section may be amended pursuant to another ordinance
of the city, which ordinance shall serve to repeal or amend this section
without further hearing. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3-4: CERTIFICATE/REPORT OF COMPLIANCE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Certificate Required; Approval And Issuance; Records Kept: No building
or structure hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be occupied and
used until a certificate of compliance shall be issued only after the building
official/code official makes a finding that the building or structure has been
erected or structurally altered in conformance with the provisions of this
title and other health and building laws and in accordance with a building
permit. Certificates of compliance shall be applied for coincident with the
application for building permit and shall be issued within ten (10) days after
the erection and alterations of such building shall have been satisfactorily
completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the city clerk for a period of ten (10) years, and copies shall be furnished on
request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
affected.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Report Of Compliance For Transfers Of Property:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any transferee receiving any interest in real property (other
than a leasehold interest) within the city shall be provided by the transferor,
and shall request and obtain from the transferor, a report, pursuant to this
section, prior to entering into any agreement or contract for the sale or
transfer of any such interest in real property within the city. In the event
that no agreement or contract is entered into between the transferee and
transferor, then said report shall be provided by the transferor, and any
transferee shall request and obtain from the transferor said report prior to
the sale, transfer or exchange of said interest in real property. Said report
may contain matters of city record pertaining to the authorized use and zoning
classification of the property; the current zoning classification of the
property; all matters disclosed pursuant to the inspection of the property,
including violations of the Highwood housing ordinance (or any successor
ordinance), or the Highwood property maintenance code (or any successor
ordinance).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A report of zoning and code compliance as set forth above shall
be required pursuant to this subsection for every transfer of any interest in
real estate (other than as set forth in subsection B3 of this section) within
the city. For every transfer of an interest in real estate, the transferor of
the property shall obtain from the city a report of compliance setting forth
the matters required herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â It shall also be the responsibility of the transferee of the
interest in real estate to request and obtain from the seller, prior to the
acceptance of any transfer of any interest in real estate, said report of
compliance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Said report of zoning and code compliance shall be valid for a
period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of issue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Upon application of the transferor or his authorized agent, and
the payment to the city of a fee pursuant to section
3-2A-1 of this code, the zoning administrator or any of his designee(s) shall
review pertinent city records, make an exterior and interior inspection and
deliver to the applicant a report which may contain the following information
so far as it shall be available:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Street address; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Zoning classification and authorized use of the property; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Housing code violations; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Property maintenance code violations; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Other pertinent information.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The report of zoning compliance and all accompanying information
shall be delivered by the transferor, or his authorized representative, to the
transferee of the property prior to the consummation of the sale or exchange.
Upon request, the transferee shall deliver the report of zoning compliance to
the zoning administrator, or his designee(s), as evidence of compliance with
this section prior to occupancy of the property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â It shall also be the responsibility of the transferee to obtain
the report of zoning compliance from the transferor. The failure of the
transferee to obtain same shall be a violation of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Liberal Construction: For purposes of this title, any sale, transfer
or exchange of real property or any interest therein shall be deemed to
effectuate the purposes of this title. Said purposes are to require inspections
of the property to be transferred and city records regarding said property
prior to transfer of ownership. Therefore, the provisions of this title shall
be applicable to not only transfers of a fee interest in real estate, but also
to transfers of the beneficial interest in any land trusts, the sale, exchange
or transfer of stock in any corporation holding title to real estate, land
contracts, installment agreements for warranty deed, or any other mechanism
used to transfer ownership of real property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Exemptions: Notwithstanding any other requirement of this section, a
report shall not be required for the following exempt transactions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A sale, transfer or exchange of real property between
governmental bodies.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A sale, transfer or exchange of real property without
consideration to confirm, correct, modify or supplement an ownership interest
in real estate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â A sale, transfer or exchange of real property where the actual
consideration is less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Transfers involving tax deeds, releases of mortgages or any lien
indebtedness.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Transfer of interest pursuant to involuntary legal proceedings
including partition suits and dissolution of marriage. A report shall be
required for transfers pursuant to a sale or transfer under a probate
proceeding other than to the heirs or beneficiaries.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Transfer of leasehold interest.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Transfer of vacant real estate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Enforcement: The city may use pertinent water department records and
real estate transfer records and all other records to ascertain compliance with
this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Late Fees And Penalties: In cases of violation of this section, a
late fee shall be paid by both the transferor and transferee as provided in
section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Liability: The transferor and transferee shall be jointly and
severally liable for such late fee penalties (in addition to the original
required application fee) for failure to comply with the provisions of this
section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Additional Fines And Fees: In addition to said late fee, any
transferor or transferee and any person, partnership, firm, entity or
corporation (whether transferor or transferee) violating any provision of this
section shall be subject to the fines and penalties set forth in section
11-3-11 of this chapter. In addition to any penalty, late fee or fine levied
under this title, any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation (whether
transferor or transferee) in violation of any provision of this section shall
pay any and all reasonable attorney fees incurred by the city in enforcing this
section. In the event the city deems it necessary to bring any court action to
enforce this section, there shall be assessed against any person, partnership,
firm or corporation (whether transferor or transferee) violating this section
all reasonable costs, expenses and attorney fees incurred by the city in
bringing this action, in addition to the fine, late fee or penalty provided
herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Nonmandatory Report: Since the holders of property interests in the
city may find it necessary or convenient to request the type of report
otherwise required for transfer of property interests under this section in
instances not mandated under this title, any person, firm or entity having any
interest in real property within the city may request from the zoning
administrator a report pursuant to this section. Upon completion of the
application and payment of the required fee (which shall be the same as those
fees for required inspections), the zoning administrator shall process said
application and, if such request is granted, shall prepare and provide such
report. Said report may contain matters of city record pertaining to the
authorized use and zoning classification of the property; the current zoning
classification of the property; all matters disclosed pursuant to the
inspection of the property, including violations of the Highwood housing
ordinance (or any successor ordinance) or the Highwood property maintenance
code (or any successor ordinance). If the zoning administrator is unable to
comply with the applicant's request, the applicant shall be so advised, and the
application fee refunded. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3-5: USE PERMIT:
No change shall be made in the use of a building or part thereof now or
hereafter erected or structurally altered without a use permit having first
been issued by the zoning administrator. No such use permit shall be issued to
make such change unless it is in conformity with the provisions of this title
and amendments hereto hereafter duly enacted. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3-6: CONTINUANCE OF EXISTING USES:
Nothing in this title shall prevent the continuance of the present occupancy or
lawful use of any existing building or zoning lot, except as may be necessary
for the safety of life and property, and except as provided in chapter 1 of
this title. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3-7: APPEALS AND REVIEW:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the zoning
administrator charged with the enforcement of this title or by any officer,
department, board, bureau, or commission of the city concerning the
interpretation of this title may take an appeal to the zoning board of appeals.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Filing Appeals:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Such appeal shall be taken within forty five (45) days and shall be
taken by filing with the city council and with the zoning board of appeals a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof, together with such plats and
exhibits as are reasonably necessary.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Such appeal shall be taken upon forms provided by the zoning
administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The zoning administrator shall forthwith transmit to the board all
of the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Stay Of Proceedings: The appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the zoning administrator
certifies to the zoning board of appeals, after notice of appeal has been filed
with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in
his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property; in which case, the
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the board of appeals or by a court of record on application, with
notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and all due causes shown.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Hearing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The zoning board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time and place
for the hearing of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the persons
appealing and to the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The board shall
hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable time. At the hearing, parties of
interest may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The concurring vote of four (4) members of the zoning board shall be
necessary to recommend reversal of any order, decision, or determination of the
zoning administrator or to decide in favor of the applicant, any matter upon
which it is authorized by this title to render decisions. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-
18-2003)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Judicial Review: All final administrative decisions of the city council
under this section shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the
provisions of the state administrative review law, and all amendments and
modifications thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto 1 . The term
"administrative decision" is defined as in section 3-101 of the administrative
review law 2 . (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
2 2. 735 ILCS 5/3-101.
11-3-8: AMENDMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority To Petition; Fee: The city council, the plan commission,
other governmental bodies, and any private petitioner may apply for an
amendment in the text of this title and the accompanying zoning map made a part
of this title. Any petition for an amendment by a private party shall require
the payment of a fee as established in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â General Review Requirements: The regulations imposed and the zoning
districts created under this title may be amended by ordinance, but no such
amendment shall be made by the city council without public notice and without a
public hearing before the city plan commission. The plan commission shall hold
the public hearing and forward its recommendations to the city council within
forty five (45) days of the date the petition was submitted to the plan
commission, unless it is withdrawn by the petitioner.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Plan Commission Factors: The plan commission shall not recommend the
adoption of a proposed amendment unless it finds that the adoption of such an
amendment is in the public interest and is not solely in the interest of the
applicant. The plan commission shall consider the following factors in
considering any such amendment:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The existing uses and zoning classifications of properties in the
vicinity of the subject property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The trend of development in the vicinity of the subject property,
including changes, if any, in such trend since the subject property was placed
in its present plan designation or zoning classification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The extent to which the value of the subject property is diminished
by the existing plan designation or zoning classification applicable to it.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The extent to which such diminution in value is offset by an
increase in the public health, safety and welfare.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The extent, if any, to which the use and enjoyment of adjacent
properties would be affected by the proposed amendment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The extent, if any, to which the value of adjacent properties would
be affected by the proposed amendment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The extent, if any, to which the future orderly development of
adjacent properties would be affected by the proposed amendment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The suitability of the subject property for uses permitted or
permissible under its present plan designation and zoning classification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The availability of adequate ingress and egress from the subject
property and the extent to which traffic conditions in the immediate vicinity
of the subject property would be affected by the proposed amendment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â The availability of adequate utilities and essential public
services to the subject property to accommodate the uses permitted or
permissible under its present plan designation and zoning classification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â The length of time, if any, that the subject property has been
vacant, considered in the context of the pace of development in the vicinity of
the subject property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â The community need for the proposed map amendment and for the uses
and development it would allow.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notice Of Hearing: The city plan commission shall cause notice of
public hearing of petitioner's application to be given in the following manner:
1) by publishing notice of the time and place of such hearing in a paper of
general circulation in the city; and 2) by causing said notice to contain the
particular location for which the amendment is requested, as well as a brief
statement describing the proposed amendment.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Written Protests: In the event of written protest against the proposed
amendment, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley or rear line therefrom,
or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered, as to such regulations or zoning district,
filed with the city clerk, such amendment shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all the members of the city council.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Final Decisions: The city council, without further public hearing, may
adopt or deny the report of the plan commission for any proposed amendment, or
may refer the petition back to the plan commission for further consideration.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3-9: FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fees Established: Fees shall be as provided in section
3-2A-1 of this code. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Assessment Of Development Fees And Costs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon submission of a proposal or petition to the city for
annexation, rezoning, subdivision, or development of any parcel (including any
proposal for a special use, planned unit development, variation or otherwise)
within the city, or to be annexed thereto (hereinafter "proposal"), the
petitioner shall pay all costs and fees incurred by the city associated with
the review of said proposal, and all matters incidental thereto, (hereinafter
"review fee"). Such costs and fees to be reimbursed by the petitioner shall
include, but not be limited to, the costs and fees of consultants, engineers,
planners, attorneys, staff, and any other cost or fee whatsoever incurred by
the city and deemed by the city to be necessary or convenient for the review of
the proposal. Said review fee shall also include any of the aforementioned
items incurred by the city in the negotiation, amendment, modification or
implementation of any proposal or plan for annexation, rezoning, subdivision,
variation or development (including the implementation of any proposal for a
special use, planned unit development, or otherwise) by petitioner, and shall
be liberally construed to ensure that the city shall incur no cost regarding
any proposal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The city council may establish an initial review fee to be deposited
with the city prior to the consideration of any proposal or petition. In the
event the city's cost to review any proposal exceeds the review fee, the city
shall notify the petitioner detailing said additional costs, and the petitioner
shall pay such additional review fee at such times as required by the city
collector. In the event that the costs actually incurred by the city do not
exhaust the review fees collected by the city, the unused portion shall be
refunded to the petitioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any change or modification to the proposal submitted for review by
the petitioner following the inception of the review process may require, in
the discretion of the city, that the petitioner pay to the city an additional
review fee hereunder. Any such additional costs will be identified by the city
collector and requested of and paid by the petitioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The proposal or collection of the review fee shall not be construed
to create or hold the city responsible or liable for any damage to any persons
or property by reason of any inspection, reinspection or review authorized
herein, or failure to inspect, reinspect or review, nor shall the approval of
any application authorized herein constitute any representation, guarantee or
warranty of any kind by, nor create any liability upon, the city or any
official, agent or employee thereof. Further, the collection of a review fee
shall not be construed to create or imply any agreement by the city to grant
any proposal, application, or permit requested by the petitioner hereunder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Upon submission of a proposal or petition to the City for
annexation, subdivision, or development of any parcel within the City, or to be
annexed thereto (hereinafter "proposal"), the petitioner shall pay any and all
costs and fees involved in the proceedings, including, but not limited to,
transcription, publication, recordation, and amendment of the zoning maps,
unless waived by motion of the City Council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Amendment Of Fees: The fees and costs required to be paid under this
title may be amended pursuant to an ordinance of the City promulgating a fee
and cost schedule 1 , which ordinance shall serve to repeal or amend the
affected fee or cost, without further hearing.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Waiver Of Fees: Upon motion of the City Council, any assessment, fee or
cost imposed or required to be paid under this title may be waived. (Ord. 2003-
O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 2, article A of this Code.
11-3-10: CONSOLIDATION PLAT REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Where a zoning lot or other parcel designated for the development,
construction, remodeling or enlargement of a proposed use does not coincide
with a lot of record, and the proposed development, construction, remodeling or
enlargement may not be performed without crossing the lot lines of the lot(s)
of record or without encroaching on the required side, rear, front or other
setbacks for the district within which the lot(s) of record is located, or a
petitioner is otherwise desirous of consolidating zoning lots, parcels, or
portions thereof, a plat of consolidation shall be prepared.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Such request for consolidation shall be submitted for approval by the
Plan Commission. The Plan Commission shall follow the procedures applicable to
map amendments hereunder, along with the applicable provisions of the
subdivision ordinance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notwithstanding the above, such request for consolidation of zoning
lots, parcels, or portions thereof may be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. If the Zoning Administrator determines, in his sole discretion,
that the consolidation of such parcels is beneficial to the City and the
petitioner, the Zoning Administrator may recommend that the hearing required
above be waived. The Zoning Administrator shall report the request for
consolidation and his recommendation to the City Attorney, Plan Commission
Chair, and the Mayor and City Council. Upon receipt of such report of the
Zoning Administrator, the City Council may: 1) reject the recommendation of the
Zoning Administrator, and refer the proposed consolidation to the Plan
Commission for hearing as set forth above; or 2) in the alternative, may
approve said consolidation pursuant to an ordinance adopted by the City Council
approving such consolidation and map amendment. Upon such approval, the
signature and the approval of the Plan Commission shall not be required, but
the Plan Commission Chair, or his designee, shall, if requested by the City,
affix his signature to the plat of consolidation indicating the approval of the
Plan Commission to such consolidation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In all events, any consolidation shall be approved by the City Council
prior to the issuance of any permits or the commencement of any development,
construction, remodeling or enlargement. All costs involved in the proceedings,
including, but not limited to, preparation of the plat, recordation and
amendment of the zoning maps, shall be borne by the petitioner, unless waived
by motion of the City Council. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3-11: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, firm, entity or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any
provision of this title shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2009 Code)
ARTICLE A. VARIATIONS AND SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Application For Variation Or Special Use
11-3A-2: Approval Procedure
11-3A-3: Variation Standards
11-3A-4: Special Use Standards
11-3A-4-1: Accessory Financial Use
11-3A-5: Considerations
11-3A-6: Additional Special Use Provisions
11-3A-7: Miscellaneous Procedural Matters For Special Uses And Variations
11-3A-1: APPLICATION FOR VARIATION OR SPECIAL USE:
In the event a construction or use is desired which is not in conformance with
this title, an application for a variation, or a special use permit where
required, may be filed with the city council, and with a fee as established
herein. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3A-2: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Upon the receipt of the application for variation or special use
permit, the city council will refer the application to the zoning board.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The zoning board shall hold a public hearing on all applications for
variations or special use permits. A public notice of the hearing must be given
as provided by law. After the public hearing, the zoning board shall convene
and recommend an acceptance or denial to the city council within sixty (60)
days of the public hearing stating the reasons for the recommendation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The city council shall not grant any variation or special use permit in
any case until a public hearing has first been held by the zoning board and the
zoning board has made its recommendation to the city council. (Ord. 2003-O-15,
3-18-2003)
11-3A-3: VARIATION STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In making a recommendation for the granting of a variation, the zoning
board shall consider the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Whether the construction or use is in harmony with the surrounding
construction or use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whether the construction or use is not objectionable to the
surrounding residents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Whether strict application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of any reasonable use of the land. Mere loss in value may
not justify a variation unless there is a deprivation of beneficial use of
land.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Whether the variation is only a minor deviation of the provisions of
this title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The zoning board and/or city council may exercise its discretion
weighing the facts, the factors set forth in subsection A of this section and
the petition for variation when recommending and/or granting any variation.
Further, the findings of the zoning board and/or the city council in
recommending the proposed variation shall be given deference in any judicial
review process. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3A-4: SPECIAL USE STANDARDS:
A recommendation for special use other than a planned unit development shall be
given only when the zoning board of appeals shall find all of the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, or general welfare.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other
property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted, nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The nature and intensity of the activities involved and the size,
placement and design of any structures proposed will be so planned that the
special use will be compatible with the existing development and will not
impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding
property.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The proposed use and development will be served adequately by essential
public facilities and services such as streets, public utilities, drainage
structures, police and fire protection, refuse disposal, parks, libraries, and
schools or the applicant will provide adequately for such services.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The location of the special use within the city will be such that
adverse effects on surrounding properties will be minimal, particularly
regarding the traffic generated by the special use, nor will it draw
significant amounts of traffic through residential streets.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Parking areas will be of adequate size for the particular use and
properly located, and the entrance and exit drives will be laid out so as to
prevent traffic hazards and nuisances.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The proposed use and development will not result in the destruction,
loss or damage of natural, scenic or historic features of significant
importance.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The size of the lot will be sufficient for the use proposed.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Adequate fencing and/or screening will be provided to ensure the
enjoyment of surrounding properties, to provide for the public safety or to
screen parking areas and other visually incompatible uses.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The proposed use and development will be in harmony with the general
and specific purposes for which this title was enacted and for which the
regulations of the district in question were established and with the general
purpose and intent of the official comprehensive plan.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â If a special use permit is granted, the petitioner, its successors and
assigns are currently in compliance with governmental regulations, including
city ordinances, and are likely to comply with governmental regulations,
including city ordinances, in the future.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â A special use permit shall be denied where the zoning board finds that
the special use, if granted, would impinge or retard other development within
the city or the district.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â A special use permit shall be denied where the zoning board finds that
the special use, if granted, does not demonstrate that it would exert a
positive effect upon other development within the city or the district.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â A special use permit shall be denied where the zoning board finds that
the special use, if granted, would not enhance revenue opportunities for the
city.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Where the district regulations authorizing any special use in a
particular district impose special standards to be met by such use in such
district, a permit for such use in such district shall not be recommended or
granted unless the applicant shall establish compliance with such special
standards. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3A-4-1: ACCESSORY FINANCIAL USE:
An "accessory financial use", as defined in section
11-2-3 of this title as "accessory use, financial", shall require a
recommendation for special use permit and shall also require the applicant to
satisfy the requirements and conditions applicable to the granting of a
variation. Further, as to the requirements for the special use permit, the
following additional special standards and criteria shall be applied and
considered by the zoning board of appeals in making any recommendation for the
granting of a required special use permit for an accessory financial use. It
shall be the applicant's burden to establish each of the special standards and
criteria to the satisfaction of the zoning board of appeals. The special use
permit shall be recommended only when the zoning board of appeals shall find
all of the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Related Use: The special use permit shall be recommended only where the
accessory financial use is an "accessory use" (as defined in section
11-2-3 of this title) or is otherwise incidental and related to a permitted
business or permitted use (principal business use) for which a certificate of
occupancy has been issued for the premises. The accessory financial use shall
be determined to be "related" to the principal business use where it logically
and naturally supplements or complements the services of the principal business
use offered to patrons of the principal business use. The burden of
establishing same shall be on the applicant. By way of illustration only, and
not as a limitation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A check cashing service offered to patrons logically and naturally
supplements and complements a grocery store use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A wire transfer service in a contractor's office does not logically
and naturally supplement and complement the contractor use.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Ownership: The principal business use and accessory financial use shall
each be owned, managed and operated by the same person, firm or entity.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Size Limitation: The amount of floor area devoted or supporting the
accessory financial use shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the floor area of
the principal business use.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Business Limitation: The gross revenues of the accessory financial use
do not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the gross revenues of the principal
business use.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Principal Business Requirement: The principal business use at which the
accessory financial use is located shall be of such a type and nature which
generates sales tax revenue, and shall not be a nonretail or service type
business.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Signage Prohibition: No advertisement or sign of any type announcing
the accessory financial use shall be placed within or without the building,
structure or premises which may be viewed from the exterior of the building,
structure or premises.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Impact On Other Business: A special use permit for an accessory
financial use shall not be granted where it would affect the financial
stability of any other business in the city offering the same type of service.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Community Need: A special use permit for an accessory financial use
shall not be granted unless the zoning board determines that there is a
community need for such accessory financial use. In making such a
determination, the zoning board may consider whether such services are
available at other locations within or without the city, the geographic
location of other similar services, or other relevant factors. (Ord. 2003-O-15,
3-18-2003)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Adequate Facilities And Security: A special use permit for an accessory
financial use shall not be recommended unless the zoning board determines that
an adequate secure facility and a security plan shall be provided. Further, the
zoning board shall determine that such shall be maintained. The plan shall
provide for the security and safety of the employees, patrons and the public.
Such plan shall include at a minimum: (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Appropriate facilities for the storage of cash and instruments upon
the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An appropriate security alarm system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A segregated and secure financial transaction area, which shall
include a teller window, which provides appropriate protection to the employees
and prohibits patrons and the public from access to the employee performing the
financial transactions, and/or the cash or instruments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Appropriate services for the removal of cash or instruments from the
premises.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Bonding And Licensing: All accessory financial uses shall maintain in
full force and effect all required state and federal licensing, bonding and
insurance, and maintain copies of same on file with the city.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â State And Federal Laws: All accessory financial uses shall maintain
full compliance with all state and federal laws and regulations.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Administrative Fee: All accessory financial uses shall be required to
pay an administrative fee as required by the city to oversee the regulation and
review of the special use permit for such accessory financial use 1 .
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Annual Renewal: All accessory financial uses shall be required to renew
any special use permit which is granted on an annual basis pursuant to review
and approval of the city council. The city council may delegate such review to
the zoning board, which shall forward its recommendation to the city council.
It shall be the responsibility of the holder of the special use permit to apply
for renewal by filing such renewal request with the city clerk at least sixty
(60) days prior to its expiration.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Limitation On Permit: Any special use permit granted shall only permit
the accessory financial use requested, and shall not otherwise engage in any
other financial services, including, but not limited to, loans, check cashing,
or otherwise.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Code Compliance Required: A special use permit shall not be recommended
unless the entire building or structure which contains the premises in which
the accessory financial use is located has been inspected and is in full
compliance with all applicable codes and ordinances. In the event an applicant
for a special use permit is not the owner of the building or structure, the
owner shall join in the special use permit application and shall ensure that
the entire building or structure is available for inspection.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Application Requirements: All accessory financial uses shall be
required to submit an application for the granting or renewal of the special
use permit required. For purposes of administering such process, the city may
promulgate an additional ordinance, which may be amended from time to time.
Such ordinance shall be deemed an extension of the special use permit
requirements. Further, the holder of such special use permit shall pay an
administrative fee as required by the city to oversee the regulation and review
of such special use permit and/or accessory financial use 2 . Such ordinance
shall include the following provisions at a minimum:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â There shall be maintained and posted in a prominent location in the
accessory financial use transaction area a complete description of fees for any
financial service. Further, in the event that the accessory financial use
involves the transfer of funds to another country, there shall also be posted
either a notice that funds shall be transferred based upon the daily official
exchange rate, or, if not, there shall be posted on a daily basis the exchange
rate used for such transactions. The text of such signs shall be in red letters
on a white background; said letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â There shall be maintained and posted in a prominent location at the
accessory financial use a sign indicating that any complaints regarding the
service may be submitted to the city of Highwood for determination and
adjudication. The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white
background; said letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In addition to any other posting requirement, all notices required
hereunder shall be promulgated in English, Spanish, and any other language
which constitutes the primary language used by five percent (5%) or more of the
individuals availing themselves of the accessory financial use. For such
purpose, each application for the accessory financial use shall inquire as to
the primary language of the patrons.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any applicant for a special use permit for an accessory financial
use, or any individuals involved in any way with such accessory financial use,
shall be subject to fingerprinting, background check and/or a criminal history
query to determine that the applicant and individuals are qualified for the
granting or renewal of such special use permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â All accessory financial uses involved in the transfer of funds shall
provide to each customer verification that the funds have been received at the
point transmitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Each operator of an accessory financial use shall keep a log
indicating the following as to each patron: the date, time, name, address,
telephone number, primary language (as noted above), amount of funds
transferred, the transfer rate applicable, the official exchange rate in effect
on the day of the transfer and the transfer fee. A copy of such log shall be
submitted to the city upon its request.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Each operator of an accessory financial use shall keep and provide
such records or logs as may be required pursuant to any state or federal
statute or regulation regarding same. A copy of such log or records shall be
made available for inspection and copying at all times by the city, and a copy
shall be submitted to the city upon its request.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The applicant for the special use permit shall demonstrate to the
zoning board its ability to comply with each of the foregoing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â This subsection may be amended pursuant to another ordinance of the
city, which ordinance shall serve to repeal or amend this subsection, without
further hearing.
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â Acknowledgment: Any applicant for a special use permit for an accessory
financial use shall acknowledge that he is subject to the regulations set forth
herein, that he will not seek refunding of any licensing or administrative fee
imposed hereunder, and the applicant shall indemnify and hold harmless the city
from any and all claims relative to the application, granting or denial of the
special use permit, and that the special use permit is subject to the terms of
this title and, further, to renewal on an annual basis.
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit: Any special use permit granted
hereunder shall be subject to revocation or suspension for just cause, if the
city determines that the holder has violated any of the provisions hereof, the
ordinance referenced above, or any other ordinance of the city. Any person
making application for such a special use permit shall be deemed to recognize
and acknowledge that said permit may be revoked for the violation of any of its
terms. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-2A-1 of this code, entry reading "Zoning/Planning".
2 1. See section
  3-2A-1 of this code, entry reading "Zoning/Planning".
11-3A-5: CONSIDERATIONS:
In determining whether the applicant's evidence establishes that the foregoing
standards have been met, the zoning board of appeals shall consider:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Whether, and to what extent, the proposed use and development at the
particular location requested is necessary or desirable to provide a service or
a facility that is in the interest of the public convenience or that will
contribute to the general welfare of the neighborhood or community.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Whether, and to what extent, all steps possible have been taken to
minimize any adverse effects of the proposed use and development on the
immediate vicinity through building design, site design, landscaping and
screening. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-3A-6: ADDITIONAL SPECIAL USE PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Conditions On Special Use Permits: The zoning board of appeals may
recommend and the city council may impose such conditions and limitations
concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening and
other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this title upon the
premises benefited by a special use permit as may be necessary or appropriate
to prevent or minimize adverse effects upon other property and improvements in
the vicinity of the subject property or upon public facilities and services.
These conditions may include, but are not limited to, regulations regarding
landscaping and screening, hours of operation, parking, signage, adequate
drainage of stormwater, exterior lighting, fence height and the duration of the
special use. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the ordinance
granting the special use permit. Violation of any such condition or limitation
shall be a violation of this title and shall constitute grounds for revocation
of the special use permit.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Affidavit Of Compliance With Conditions; Fee: Whenever any special use
permit granted pursuant to this article is made subject to conditions or
limitations to be met by the applicant, the applicant shall, upon meeting such
conditions, file an affidavit with the zoning administrator so stating. Such
affidavit shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee, to be fixed in each case
by the zoning administrator, to recover the city's actual direct costs in the
processing and hearing of the special use and of an inspection to verify that
such conditions and limitations have been met.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Effect Of Issuance Of Special Use Permit: The granting of a special use
permit shall not authorize the establishment or extension of any use, nor the
development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or moving of any building
or structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing and processing
of applications for any permits or approvals that may be required by the codes
and ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to, a certificate of
zoning compliance, a building permit, a certificate of occupancy and
subdivision approval.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Limitations On Permits:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Subject to an extension of time granted by the zoning administrator,
no special use permit shall be valid for a period longer than one year unless a
building permit is issued and construction is actually begun within that period
and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion or unless a certificate of
occupancy is issued and a use commenced within that period.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A special use permit shall be deemed to authorize only the
particular use for which it was issued, and such permit shall automatically
expire and cease to be of any force or effect if such use shall, for any
reason, be discontinued for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Except when otherwise provided in the ordinance granting a special
use permit, a special use permit shall be deemed to relate to, and be for the
benefit of, the current owner or operator of the use of the lot in question
rather than to the lot itself.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Amendments To Permits: A special use permit may be amended, varied or
altered only pursuant to the procedures and subject to the standards and
limitations provided in this article for its original approval.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Renewal Of Permits: The city council may, upon written request, for
good cause shown, and following notice pursuant to the requirements established
by statute and this title and a hearing before the city council, renew a
special use permit for the same period of time for which such special use
permit was first valid.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Effect Of Denial Of Special Use: No application for a special use which
has been denied wholly or in part by the city council shall be resubmitted for
a period of one year from the date of the decision, except on the grounds of
new evidence or proof of changed conditions found to be valid by the plan
commission and/or the city council.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Recording Of Special Use Permit Ordinance; Payment Of Fees: All
ordinances approving and authorizing provisions of this article shall be
recorded in the office of the county recorder of deeds. All fees incurred for
recordation and expenses shall be paid for by the applicant. (Ord. 2003-O-15,
3-18-2003)
11-3A-7: MISCELLANEOUS PROCEDURAL MATTERS FOR SPECIAL USES AND VARIATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Conditions: If the above conditions are not met, the provisions of this
title will be upheld and the application for variation or special use shall be
denied.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Expiration:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No order for a variation permitting the erection or alteration of a
building shall be valid for a period longer than six (6) months, unless such
use is established within such period; provided, however, that where such use
permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such
order shall continue in force and effect if a building permit for said erection
or alteration is obtained within such period and erection or alteration is
started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of such permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No order for a variation permitting a use of a building or premises
shall be valid for a period longer than six (6) months, unless such use is
established within such period; provided, however, that where such use
permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such
order shall continue in force and effect if a building permit for said erection
or alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or alteration is
started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of such permit.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â City Council Action: After receiving the report of the zoning board
relating to a variation or special use, the city council may act on the
application and adopt any proposed variation or special use or may refer it to
the zoning board for further consideration. Further provided, that any proposed
variation which fails to receive approval of the zoning board shall not be
passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the city council.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Requirements Binding: In approving any variations or special uses, the
city council shall be governed by the same considerations and restrictions as
the zoning board. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
11-4-1: Districts Established
11-4-2: Zoning Map
11-4-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
11-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
The city is hereby divided into districts as follows:
R-1                Residential district (2 acres, single-family)
R-2                Residential district (7,260 square feet, single-family)
R-3                Residential district (duplex dwelling)
R-3A               Residential district (restricted multiple dwelling)
R-4                Residential district (multiple-family dwelling)
                   Collectively the B-1 retail business district, B-2 service
Business districts and retail business district, and B-3 low intensity business
                   district
B-1                Retail business district
B-2                Service and retail business district
B-3                Low intensity business district
Â 
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-4-2: ZONING MAP:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The boundaries of the districts listed in section
11-4-1 of this chapter are as indicated on the zoning map of the city, a copy
of which is on file in the office of the city clerk in the city hall and is
identified on its face as a part of this title, and the said zoning map, with
all notations, references and other matters thereon, is as much a part of this
title as if such notations, references and other matters were specifically set
forth herein. No buildings shall be erected or altered, nor shall any building
or premises be used for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in
which such building or premises is located, except as provided in chapter 9 of
this title related to nonconforming uses. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The zoning map represents the zoning of the parcels and designation of
zoning districts of the city as same are amended from time to time. (Ord. 10-O-
30, 10-5-2010)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A zoning map shall not be included in copies of the text of this title
for sale to the public, but may be purchased separately. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-
2003)
11-4-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The following rules shall apply with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts, as shown on the zoning district maps:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â District boundary lines are the centerlines of highways, streets,
alleys, easements, lot lines, or right of way lines of railroads, freeways, and
expressways, or such lines extended, unless otherwise indicated.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, wherever a district is
indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street or highway, the
depths of such strips shall be in accordance with dimensions shown on the maps,
measured at right angles from the centerline of the street or highway, and the
length of such frontage should be in accordance with dimensions on the map from
centerlines of streets, highways, or railroad rights of way, unless otherwise
indicated.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership on the
effective date hereof, the less restrictive use may extend to the entire lot,
but not more than twenty five feet (25') beyond the boundary line of the
district. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (2 ACRES, SINGLE-FAMILY)
SECTION:
11-5A-1: Permitted Uses
11-5A-2: Lot Size
11-5A-3: Building Height
11-5A-4: Yard And Setback Requirements
11-5A-5: Lot Coverage
11-5A-1: PERMITTED USES:
No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the R-
1 residential district, except a building or use devoted to one of the
following purposes:
Â Â Â Churches and temples; provided, that no steeple shall be more than seventy
five feet (75') in height, and only when off street parking space is provided
upon the lot or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, as required in
subsection 11-8-5A of this title.
Â Â Â Parks, playgrounds, forest preserves and accessory uses owned or operated by
not for profit public agencies.
Â Â Â Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a curriculum
equivalent to a public elementary school, public high school or public
institution of higher learning.
Â Â Â Single-family dwellings.
Â Â Â Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses,
including private garages, tool houses, and private greenhouse. (Ord. 2003-O-
15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5A-2: LOT SIZE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Lot Area: Minimum lot area required for all permitted uses is eighty
seven thousand one hundred twenty (87,120) square feet (2 acres).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Lot Width: Minimum lot width for all uses is one hundred twenty five
feet (125'). (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5A-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories nor shall it exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5A-4: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Front Yard: A front yard of not less than fifty feet (50') from the lot
line or not less than the building line established by a subdivision plot of
record.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than forty feet (40') or not less
than twenty percent (20%) of the lot depth, whichever is less.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Side Yard: A side yard on each side of the lot of not less than ten
feet (10'). On a corner lot, the side yard adjacent to the street shall be not
less than thirty feet (30') wide. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5A-5: LOT COVERAGE:
No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, relocated or enlarged so that
the principal structure and accessory buildings exceed thirty three and one-
third percent (331/3%) lot coverage. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
ARTICLE B. R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (7,260 SQUARE FEET, SINGLE- FAMILY)
SECTION:
11-5B-1: Permitted Uses
11-5B-2: Lot Size
11-5B-3: Building Height
11-5B-4: Yard And Setback Requirements
11-5B-5: Lot Coverage
11-5B-1: PERMITTED USES:
No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the R-
2 residential district, except a building or use devoted to one of the
following purposes:
Â Â Â Churches and temples; provided, that no steeple shall be more than seventy
five feet (75') in height, and only when off street parking space is provided
upon the lot or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, as required in
subsection 11-8-5A of this title.
Â Â Â Parks, playgrounds, forest preserves and accessory uses owned or operated by
not for profit public agencies.
Â Â Â Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a curriculum
equivalent to a public elementary school, public high school or public
institution of higher learning, and having no rooms regularly used for housing
or sleeping purposes.
Â Â Â Single-family dwellings.
Â Â Â Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses,
including private garages, tool houses, and private greenhouse. (Ord. 2003-O-
15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5B-2: LOT SIZE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Lot Area: Minimum lot area for all permitted uses is seven thousand two
hundred sixty (7,260) square feet.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Lot Width: Minimum lot width for all uses is fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Lot Depth: Minimum lot depth for all uses is one hundred twenty five
feet (125'). (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5B-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories nor shall it exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5B-4: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Front Yard: A front yard of not less than thirty feet (30') from the
front lot line or not less than the building line established by a subdivision
plot.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Rear Yard: A rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20') or not less
than twenty percent (20%) of the lot depth, whichever is less.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Side Yard: A side yard on each side of the lot of not less than five
feet (5'). On a corner lot, the side yard adjacent to the street shall be not
less than fifteen feet (15') wide. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5B-5: LOT COVERAGE:
No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, relocated or enlarged so that
any of the following occurs:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The floor area ratio of the principal structure and all accessory
buildings exceeds forty percent (40%) of the lot area; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The lot coverage by the principal building and all accessory buildings
exceeds thirty three and one-third percent (331/3%) of the lot area; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The total area of the lot covered by impervious surface exceeds sixty
percent (60%) of the lot area. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE C. R-3 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (DUPLEX DWELLING)
SECTION:
11-5C-1: Permitted Uses
11-5C-2: Lot Size
11-5C-3: Building Height
11-5C-4: Yard And Setback Requirements
11-5C-5: Lot Coverage
11-5C-1: PERMITTED USES:
No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the R-
3 residential district, except a building or use devoted to one of the
following purposes:
Â Â Â Churches and temples; provided, that no steeple shall be more than seventy
five feet (75') in height, and only when off street parking space is provided
upon the lot or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, as required in
subsection 11-8-5A of this title.
Â Â Â Duplex dwellings (a two-family unit only).
Â Â Â Parks, playgrounds, forest preserves and accessory uses owned or operated by
not for profit public agencies.
Â Â Â Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a curriculum
equivalent to a public elementary school, public high school or public
institution of higher learning.
Â Â Â Single-family dwellings.
Â Â Â Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses,
including private garages, tool houses, and private greenhouse. (Ord. 2003-O-
15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5C-2: LOT SIZE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Lot Area:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minimum lot area required for single-family and duplex dwelling uses
is seven thousand two hundred sixty (7,260) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Minimum lot area required for all other permitted uses is ten
thousand (10,000) square feet.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Lot Width: Minimum lot width for all uses is fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Lot Depth: Minimum lot depth for all uses is one hundred twenty five
feet (125'). (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5C-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories nor shall it exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5C-4: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Front Yard: A front yard of not less than thirty feet (30') from the
front lot line or not less than the building line established by a subdivision
plot.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Side Yard: A side yard on each side of the lot of not less than five
feet (5'). On a corner lot, the side yard adjacent to the street shall be not
less than fifteen feet (15') wide. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty feet (20') or not less than twenty percent (20%) of the lot depth,
whichever is less. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5C-5: LOT COVERAGE:
No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, relocated or enlarged so that
any of the following occurs:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The floor area ratio of the principal structure and all accessory
buildings exceeds forty percent (40%) of the lot area; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The lot coverage by the principal building and all accessory buildings
exceeds thirty three and one-third percent (331/3%) of the lot area; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The total area of the lot covered by impervious surface exceeds sixty
percent (60%) of the lot area. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE D. R-3A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (RESTRICTED MULTIPLE DWELLING)
SECTION:
11-5D-1: Permitted Uses
11-5D-2: Parking
11-5D-3: Lot Size
11-5D-4: Building Height
11-5D-5: Yard And Setback Requirements
11-5D-6: Lot Coverage
11-5D-7: Architecture Of Altered Buildings
11-5D-1: PERMITTED USES:
No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the R-3A
residential district, except a building or use devoted to one of the following
purposes:
Â Â Â Churches and temples; provided, that no steeple shall be more than seventy
five feet (75') in height, and only when off street parking space is provided
upon the lot or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, as required in
subsection 11-8-5A of this title.
Â Â Â Duplex two-family dwellings.
Â Â Â Multiple-family dwellings of not in excess of two (2) stories consisting of
no more than four (4) dwelling units having a combined total of no more than
six (6) bedrooms.
Â Â Â Parks, playgrounds, forest preserves and accessory uses owned or operated by
not for profit public agencies.
Â Â Â Public libraries.
Â Â Â Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a curriculum
equivalent to a public elementary school, public high school or public
institution of higher learning.
Â Â Â Single-family dwellings.
Â Â Â Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses,
including private garages, tool houses, and private greenhouse. (Ord. 2003-O-
15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5D-2: PARKING 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Whenever a structure is erected, converted or structurally altered for
dwelling uses, two (2) parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit,
plus one guest space for every two (2) dwelling units contained in the
structure.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Adequate parking spaces shall be provided on the lot or tract upon
which the building is located.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Access drives and maneuvering space shall not be included as part of
required parking area. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 11-8-5A of this title.
11-5D-3: LOT SIZE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Lot Width: Minimum lot width for all uses is fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Lot Depth: Minimum lot depth for all uses is one hundred twenty five
feet (125').
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Additional Requirements: Except as hereinafter provided, every
structure hereafter erected, enlarged or converted shall be located upon lots
containing the following areas and widths:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A lot on which a single-family dwelling is erected shall contain an
area of not less than seven thousand two hundred sixty (7,260) square feet, and
have an average width of not less than fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A lot on which a structure containing two (2) or more dwelling
units, or other permitted use, is erected, enlarged or converted shall contain
an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet; further provided,
that when used for dwelling units, no more than one dwelling unit shall be
permitted for each three thousand (3,000) square feet of lot area. No
fractional part of a lot area may be used in computing the total number of
dwelling units allowed. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5D-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed two (2) stories nor shall it exceed twenty eight feet
(28') in height. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5D-5: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Front Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than thirty
feet (30') from the front lot line or not less than the building line
established by a subdivision plat. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â On a corner lot, there shall be a front yard on each side of such a
lot; except, that the front yard on the side street may be reduced in depth to
the extent necessary to permit a buildable width on said lot of thirty two feet
(32'), provided the depth of said yard shall not be reduced to less than
fifteen feet (15').
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Side Yard: There shall be a side yard having a width of not less than
five feet (5') on each side of a building measured from the furthest projecting
object from the structure of any type including, but not limited to, eaves,
gutters and air conditioners.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty feet (20') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever
amount is smaller. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5D-6: LOT COVERAGE:
No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, relocated or enlarged so that
any of the following occurs:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The floor area ratio of the principal structure and all accessory
buildings exceeds forty percent (40%) of the lot area; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The lot coverage by the principal building and all accessory buildings
exceeds thirty three and one-third percent (331/3%) of the lot area; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The total area of the lot covered by impervious surface exceeds sixty
percent (60%) of the lot area. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5D-7: ARCHITECTURE OF ALTERED BUILDINGS:
Every structure hereafter enlarged or converted shall be so improved as to
comport and harmoniously blend in with the architecture of the original
structure so enlarged or converted. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
ARTICLE E. R-4 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING)
SECTION:
11-5E-1: Permitted Uses
11-5E-2: Parking
11-5E-3: Lot Size
11-5E-4: Building Height
11-5E-5: Yard And Setback Requirements
11-5E-6: Lot Coverage
11-5E-1: PERMITTED USES:
No building or use shall hereafter be established or enlarged within the R-
4 residential district, except a building or use devoted to one of the
following purposes:
Â Â Â Churches and temples; provided, that no steeple shall be more than seventy
five feet (75') in height, and only when off street parking space is provided
upon the lot or within two hundred feet (200') thereof, as required in
subsection 11-8-5A of this title.
Â Â Â Duplex dwellings (a two-family unit only).
Â Â Â Multiple-family dwellings.
Â Â Â Parks, playgrounds, forest preserves and accessory uses owned or operated by
not for profit public agencies.
Â Â Â Public libraries.
Â Â Â Public schools, elementary and high, or private schools having a curriculum
equivalent to a public elementary school, public high school or public
institution of higher learning, and having no rooms regularly used for housing
or sleeping purposes.
Â Â Â Single-family dwellings.
Â Â Â Accessory buildings or uses incidental to the foregoing principal uses,
including private garages, tool houses, and private greenhouse. (Ord. 2003-O-
15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-5E-2: PARKING 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â For other than dwelling uses, adequate parking spaces shall be provided
on the lot or tract, or within three hundred feet (300') thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Access drives and maneuvering space shall not be included as part of
required parking area. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 11-8-5A of this title.
11-5E-3: LOT SIZE:
Except as hereinafter provided, every structure hereafter erected, enlarged or
converted shall be located upon lots containing the following areas and widths:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A lot on which a single-family dwelling is erected shall contain an
area of not less than seven thousand two hundred sixty (7,260) square feet, and
have an average width of not less than fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A lot on which a structure containing two (2) or more dwelling units,
or other permitted use, is erected, enlarged or converted shall contain an area
of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet; further provided, that when
used for dwelling units, no more than one dwelling unit shall be permitted for
each three thousand (3,000) square feet of lot area. No fractional part of a
lot area may be used in computing the total number of dwelling units allowed.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5E-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed twenty eight feet (28') or two (2) stories in height.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5E-5: YARD AND SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Front Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than thirty
feet (30') from the front lot line. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Where lots have a double frontage, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â On a corner lot, there shall be a front yard on each side of such
lot; except, that the front yard on the side street may be reduced in depth to
the extent necessary to permit a buildable width on said lot of thirty two feet
(32'), provided the depth of said yard shall not be reduced to less than
fifteen feet (15').
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Side Yard: There shall be a side yard having a width of not less than
five feet (5') on each side of a building.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than
twenty feet (20') or twenty percent (20%) of the depth of the lot, whichever
amount is smaller. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-5E-6: LOT COVERAGE:
No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, relocated or enlarged so that
any of the following occurs:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The floor area ratio of the principal structure and all accessory
buildings exceeds forty percent (40%) of the lot area; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The lot coverage by the principal building and all accessory buildings
exceeds thirty three and one-third percent (331/3%) of the lot area; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The total area of the lot covered by impervious surface exceeds sixty
percent (60%) of the lot area. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS
11-6-1: Standards
11-6-2: Permitted And Special Uses
11-6-3: Lot Size
11-6-4: Building Height
11-6-5: Lot Coverage And Setback Restrictions
11-6-6: Stormwater Management
11-6-7: Public Utilities
11-6-8: Hotel And Motel Restrictions
11-6-9: Exemptions
11-6-10: Medical Cannabis Cultivation Centers And Medical Cannabis
11-6-1: STANDARDS:
All buildings and uses shall conform to the regulations, guidelines and
direction provided herein 1 . (Ord. 17-O-39, 12-19-2017)
Â 
Notes
1 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
11-6-2: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: The following definitions are in addition to those
provided herein 1 , applying to the permitted and special use matrix found
herein 2 :
Â 
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is registered by the
                                      department of agriculture to perform
                                      necessary activities to provide only
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:  registered medical cannabis dispensing
                                      organizations with usable medical
                                      cannabis, or as further defined by the
                                      Illinois compassionate use of medical
                                      cannabis pilot program act and/or rules
                                      promulgated thereunder, as amended.
                                      A facility operated by an organization or
                                      business that is registered by the
                                      department of financial and professional
                                      regulation to acquire medical cannabis
                                      from a registered cultivation center for
                                      the purpose of dispensing cannabis,
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING FACILITY: paraphernalia, or related supplies and
                                      educational materials to registered
                                      qualifying patients, or as further
                                      defined by the Illinois compassionate use
                                      of medical cannabis pilot program act
                                      and/or rules promulgated thereunder, as
                                      amended.
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Matrix: All buildings and uses shall conform to the regulations,
guidelines and direction provide herein 3 .
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Similar And Compatible Uses: The zoning administrator shall have the
right to recommend to the city council the allowance of any other use which
they determine is similar and compatible with those uses permitted in
subsection C of this section, and which is consistent with the purposes of this
title. Such determination by the zoning administrator shall be in writing and
forwarded to the city council for approval, by motion or ordinance. A record
shall be kept of each additional use allowed and permitted, which shall be
available for public inspection. (Ord. 17-O-39, 12-19-2017)
Â 
Notes
1 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
2 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
3 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
11-6-3: LOT SIZE:
All buildings and uses shall conform to the regulations, guidelines and
direction provided herein 1 .
Â (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. Ord. 17-O-39, 12-19-2017)
Â 
Notes
1 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
11-6-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
All buildings and uses shall conform to the regulations, guidelines and
direction provided herein 1 . (Ord. 17-O-39, 12-19-2017)
Â 
Notes
1 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
11-6-5: LOT COVERAGE AND SETBACK RESTRICTIONS:
All buildings and uses shall conform to the regulations, guidelines and
direction provide herein 1 . (Ord. 17-O-39, 12-19-2017)
Â 
Notes
1 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
11-6-6: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
Any development of land within the business districts shall provide adequate
stormwater run off detention prior to discharge into the city stormwater sewer
system or the state of Illinois sewer system (Sheridan Road). Said detention
and discharge shall be regulated, at a minimum, pursuant to all applicable
governmental regulations including, but not limited to, the county stormwater
management ordinance and the city building code ordinance. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-
18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-6-7: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All buildings, structures and uses shall be provided, and shall connect
to, a public water and sanitary sewer system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Upon application for permits for development of previously undeveloped
land or variance of permitted use or change of zoning, the applicant must
submit an independent engineering study establishing that the existing
utilities will support the proposed project. Said study shall be performed by a
licensed engineering firm and shall bear a certification and warranty that its
findings are true and accurate. If upgrading of the utilities is necessary to
support the proposed project, all utility improvements required shall be paid
by the applicant.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Upon application for permits for development for any structure
consisting of more than four (4) dwelling units, the building official/code
official shall, when so advised by the city engineer of any deficiencies,
advise the applicant of said deficiencies in writing within forty five (45)
days of the date of application and may request the applicant to provide an
independent engineering study establishing that the existing utilities will
support the proposed project. Such study shall be in conformance with
subsection A of this section. The cost of said study, including costs of
upgrading of the utilities if necessary to support the proposed project, shall
be borne by the applicant. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-6-8: HOTEL AND MOTEL RESTRICTIONS:
All buildings and uses and parking areas shall conform to the regulations,
guidelines and direction provided herein 1 .
No hotel or motel in the business districts, or otherwise previously authorized
as a planned unit development or otherwise, shall hereafter be erected,
altered, relocated or enlarged unless a special use permit has been issued by
the zoning board of appeals, and the parcel has a minimum lot area of ten
thousand (10,000) square feet, and the applicable planning requirements of
chapter 10 of this title have been considered by the zoning board of appeals
and satisfied. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 17-O-39, 12-19-
2017)
Â 
Notes
1 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
11-6-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The parking lot requirements; building bulk regulations (including height,
coverage, bulk, footprint); lot size (including depth, width, front, rear and
side yard requirements); signage; and engineering study requirements of this
title shall not apply to municipal buildings, facilities or structures owned or
operated by the city, established, erected, altered or enlarged in the business
districts of the city. For purposes of this title, municipal buildings,
structures and facilities shall be liberally construed and shall include any
and all buildings, structures and facilities of any type and nature owned or
operated by the city in the business districts including parks and playgrounds
(and their accessory uses). This exemption shall not apply to buildings,
structures or facilities owned or operated by any other municipal entity or
corporation. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-6-10: MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTERS AND MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING
FACILITY RESTRICTIONS:
All buildings and uses and parking areas shall conform to the regulations,
guidelines and direction provided herein 1 .
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All medical cannabis cultivation centers and medical cannabis
dispensing facilities, as defined in section
11-6-2 of this chapter, shall at all times comply with all requirements and
restrictions, including, without limitation, geographic location restrictions,
as set forth in the compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act
and/or rules promulgated thereunder, as amended or as modified by applicable
law, and shall at all times comply with the terms and conditions of any special
use permit that may be granted in accordance with this title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All medical cannabis cultivation centers and medical cannabis
dispensing facilities, as defined in section
11-6-2 of this chapter, shall at all times comply with all other zoning
requirements and restrictions, including, but not limited to, lot size,
building height, lot coverage, setbacks, stormwater management, public
utilities and parking, contained in this title and applicable to the location
of said facilities. (Ord. 13-O-65, 12-3-2013; amd. Ord. 17-O-39, 12-19-2017)
Â 
Notes
1 1. https://www.cityofhighwood.com/DocumentCenter/View/396/Highwood-
  Commercial-Districts-New-_Zoning?bidId=
CHAPTER 7
SIGNS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Regulations Generally
11-7-2: Compliance Required
11-7-3: Permit Required; Issuance
11-7-4: Prohibited Signs
11-7-5: Signs Permitted In All Districts
11-7-6: Signs In Residential Districts
11-7-7: Signs In Business Districts
11-7-1: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
Any publicly displayed sign, symbol, graphic representation or notice
(hereinafter "signs") shall be regulated as provided in this chapter. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-7-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All of the signs addressed in this chapter shall fully comply with the city
appearance code 1 , as same may be amended from time to time, and the
provisions of this title. In the event of any conflicting provision between
same, the more restrictive shall apply, unless waived by motion of the city
council. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 3, particularly section
  10-3-6, of this code.
11-7-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; ISSUANCE:
A sign permit will be required for the installation of any external sign. Said
permit will be issued by the building official/code official, and a certificate
of compliance will be issued by the zoning administrator only after the city
council authorizes said permit where required pursuant to the provisions of
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-7-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No advertising sign structure or billboard shall be permitted to be
erected in any district. In addition, all nonconforming signs shall be subject
to termination provisions as specified in section
11-9-7 of this title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No adult entertainment sign or advertising may be placed on billboards,
signboards, signs upon vacant property, and/or upon buildings that are within
one thousand feet (1,000') of the property boundaries of schools, daycare
centers, cemeteries, public parks, or places of religious worship. For purposes
of this subsection, "adult entertainment" means and shall include, but not be
limited to, entertainment provided by an adult bookstore, striptease club, or
pornographic movie theater whose business is the commercial sale, dissemination
or distribution of sexually explicit materials, shows, or other exhibition or
any other signs or advertising materials promoting shows or other exhibitions
that, when considered as a whole, appeal predominantly to the interest in
nudity or sex. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-7-5: SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS:
One temporary sign not to exceed twelve (12) square feet of gross surface area
carrying the name of the contractors, engineers, and/or architects during the
construction period will be permitted in all use districts. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-
18-2003)
11-7-6: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In an R district, only the following signs shall be permitted:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For each dwelling unit, one unlighted nameplate not exceeding one
square foot in area, indicating the name of occupant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â For a structure authorized as a "special use", other than a dwelling
unit, one identification sign not exceeding ten (10) square feet, except a
church bulletin board, which shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For purpose of orientation, directional signs, when established by
the city, not exceeding two (2) square feet.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No sign appertaining to the lease, hire or sale of a building or
premises on which said sign is placed shall exceed four (4) square feet in
area. Each such sign shall be located at least ten feet (10') from the lot line
of the adjoining premises and any lot line that abuts a street or highway.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No electrical signs shall be erected in a residential district. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also sections 10-3-6-5 and 10-3-6-6 of this code.
11-7-7: SIGNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS 1 :
In a business district, the following regulations shall apply: (Ord. 2003-O-15,
3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Signs attached to a building or premises shall be erected parallel to
the vertical wall surfaces and shall not project more than twelve inches (12")
from the wall upon which it is attached, nor project beyond the end or top of
the wall to which it is attached. Signs must be attached to parapet walls or
other wall surfaces made a part of the principal structure. Signs erected on a
separate superstructure attached to the roof of the building or to any other
part of the building above the roofline shall not be permitted.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Signs attached to or hung from a marquee or canopy shall be completely
within the borderline of the outer edge of the marquee or canopy and shall in
no instance be lower than eight feet (8') above the ground or surface over
which the marquee or canopy is located.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Signs, clocks or other advertising devices erected upon standards or
separate supports shall be placed so as to be entirely within the property
lines of the premises upon which they are located. No part of the sign or
standard shall have a total height greater than twelve feet (12') above the
level of the street upon which the sign faces, or above the adjoining ground
level if such ground level is above the street level. The bottom edge of such
sign shall be at least seven feet (7') above the ground level. The surface of
any such sign shall not exceed an area of thirty (30) square feet.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No blinking lights shall be used for the illumination of signs. All
primary light sources illuminating the buildings shall be erected and
maintained in accordance with the standards of the Illuminating Engineering
Society and shall be so placed, designed and used that neither the direct nor
reflected light therefrom will adversely affect surrounding property or create
a traffic hazard. Building faces, if illuminated for advertising purposes,
shall be only such faces as do not front a residential district.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Traffic or directional signs designating entrances, exits and
conditions of use of parking facilities accessory to the main use of the
premises may be maintained, provided they are located within the property lines
of the subject lot.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The gross surface area of all business signs on any lot or premises
shall conform with the following parameters: Such signs shall be permitted on
the front facade, not exceeding fifteen percent (15%) of the wall area,
parallel or most nearly parallel to the public way or one hundred (100) square
feet, whichever is less. Signs may be placed in or on windows, however, the
size of such sign shall be included in calculating the maximum sign area
allowed.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â For integrated shopping centers under single ownership or under unified
control, one additional illuminated sign may be erected, provided it does not
exceed thirty (30) square feet in area and contains only the name and location
of the integrated shopping center and the name and type of business of the
occupants of the center. Such signs shall be placed so as to be entirely within
the property lines of the premises upon which it is located. The bottom edge of
such sign shall be at least seven feet (7') above the level of the ground, and
the overall height of such sign shall not exceed twelve feet (12') above the
level of the ground. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 2. See also sections 10-3-6-5 and 10-3-6-7 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-8-1: Parking And Loading Facilities Plan Required
11-8-2: Extent Of Control
11-8-3: Existing Parking And Loading Spaces
11-8-4: Off Street Parking Regulations
11-8-5: Required Parking Spaces; Assessment In Lieu
11-8-6: Off Street Loading Regulations
11-8-1: PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES PLAN REQUIRED:
An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged building, structure,
or use shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale, and fully
dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided in
compliance with the requirements of this title. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-8-2: EXTENT OF CONTROL:
The off street parking and loading requirements of this title shall apply as
follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Applicability: All buildings and structures erected and all
land uses initiated after the effective date hereof shall provide accessory off
street parking or loading facilities as required hereinafter for the use
thereof; except, when a building permit has been issued prior to the effective
date hereof, furnishing of parking or loading facilities shall not be required
if construction is begun thereon within six (6) months of the effective date of
the building permit and diligently prosecuted to completion.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Decrease Of Intensity: When a building or structure erected or enlarged
prior to or after the effective date hereof shall undergo a decrease in number
of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees, or
other unit of measurement specified hereinafter for required parking or loading
facilities, and further, when said decrease would result in a requirement for a
fewer total parking or loading spaces through application of the provisions of
this title thereto, parking and loading facilities may be reduced accordingly;
provided, that existing parking or loading facilities shall be so decreased
only when the facilities remaining would at least equal or exceed the parking
or loading requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this
title to the entire building or structure as modified.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Increase Of Intensity: When a building or structure shall undergo any
increase in number of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, or
other unit of measurement specified hereinafter for required parking or loading
facilities, and further, when said increase would result in a requirement for
additional total parking or loading spaces through application of the
provisions of this title thereto, parking and loading facilities shall be
increased accordingly; provided, that existing parking or loading facilities
would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading requirements resulting
from application of the provisions of this title to the entire building or
structure as modified.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conversions And Alterations: All buildings or structures erected
hereafter; all uses of land, buildings or structures established hereafter
(including the conversion of an existing building or structure, or portion
thereof, to one of the specifically enumerated uses in section
11-8-5 of this chapter); all buildings or structures which are structurally
altered or relocated; and all buildings or structures which are substantially
remodeled or renovated, shall provide accessory off street parking or loading
facilities as required hereinafter for the use thereof. For the purposes of
this subsection, the term "substantially remodeled or renovated" shall be
deemed to include where the cumulative cost of the remodeling or renovation
over any thirty six (36) month period exceeds twenty percent (20%) of the value
of the existing building or structure, in the opinion of the zoning
administrator. Further provided, that in the event a building or structure
contains multiple uses, units, or tenant spaces (i.e., a retail center), the
above provisions shall apply to the area, space or use to be converted,
altered, remodeled or renovated. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-8-3: EXISTING PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
The following shall apply to existing driveway, parking and loading areas:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No Reduction: Accessory off street parking and loading spaces in
existence on the effective date hereof may not be reduced in number unless
already exceeding the requirements of this chapter for equivalent new
construction, in which event, said spaces shall not be reduced below the number
required herein for such equivalent new construction.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Dustless Surface Required; Exceptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each driveway, off street parking space and/or loading berth
("parking area") currently existing in the city's business zoned districts
shall only be permitted to remain if it is surfaced with a bituminous or
concrete pavement, cement paver bricks, or a similar hard surface approved by
the building official, providing an all weather, durable and dustless surface.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event a permit has been previously issued to a property owner
for a parking area which is nonconforming and does not comply with the dustless
surface requirements set forth in subsection B1 of this section, then, and in
that event, no later than December 31, 2005, such nonconforming parking area
shall be improved with a dustless surface as specified in said subsection B1,
along with such further improvements as required pursuant to subsection 11-8-4D
of this chapter. In the alternative, such nonconforming parking area may be
converted to a landscaped area in conformity with the procedures and
requirements of the city appearance code. Further provided, that conversion of
such nonconforming parking areas shall only be permitted where adequate access,
parking and loading is otherwise provided on the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In the event no permit has been previously issued to a property
owner for a parking area which is nonconforming and does not comply with the
dustless surface requirements set forth in subsection B1 of this section, then,
and in that event, no later than December 31, 2004, such nonconforming parking
area shall be improved with a dustless surface as specified in said subsection
B1, along with such further improvements as required pursuant to subsection 11-
8-4D of this chapter. In the alternative, such nonconforming parking area may
be converted to a landscaped area in conformity with the procedures and
requirements of the city appearance code. Further provided, that conversion of
such nonconforming parking areas shall only be permitted where adequate access,
parking and loading is otherwise provided on the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, any legal
nonconforming property in the business which is exclusively devoted to a
residential use of two (2) units or less, with a parking area sufficient for no
more than two (2) cars per unit, shall be exempted from this subsection. (Ord.
2004-O-51, 7-20-2004)
11-8-4: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Use Of Parking Facilities: Required accessory off street parking
facilities provided for the uses hereinafter listed shall be solely for the
parking of motor vehicles of patrons, occupants, or employees of such uses.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Collective Use Of Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for
separate uses may be provided collectively if the total number of spaces so
furnished is not less than the sum of the separate requirements for each such
use; and provided, that all regulations covering the location of accessory
parking spaces in relation to the use served are adhered to.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Dimensions: Required off street parking shall conform with the
following:
Â 
Parking   One-Way Aisle Two-Way Aisle Stall Width Stall Length2 Stall Height
Angle     Width         Width
Parallel  15 feet1      20 feet       9 feet      23 feet       7 feet
45 degree 12 feet 6.0   23 feet       9 feet      17 feet 6.0   7 feet
          inches1                                 inches
60 degree 14 feet 6.0   23 feet       9 feet      19 feet       7 feet
          inches1
90 degree 23 feet1      23 feet       9 feet      18 feet       7 feet
Â 
Notes:
1.Â Â Â If it is determined by the code official that access for firefighting
equipment is not available from the public way, then the minimum aisle width
along the longest side of the structure adjacent to the parking area shall
provide an aisle width of 20 feet, and within 45 feet of the building.
2.Â Â Â Stall length is measured perpendicular to the drive aisle.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Design, Access And Maintenance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Ingress And Egress: No parking space shall back directly onto a
street. This prohibition shall not apply to single-family and duplex
structures. Every parking lot or garage shall be provided with a turnaround
area or other means to permit cars to exit the parking lot or garage without
backing onto any street or sidewalk.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Pavement, Drainage And Marking: All parking spaces (including
required parking spaces accessory to a single-family dwelling), lots and
garages shall be surfaced with a bituminous or concrete pavement, cement paver
bricks, or a similar hard surface approved by the building official, providing
an all weather, durable and dustless surface. All parking surfaces shall be
graded and drained to dispose of surface water accumulation by means of a
positive stormwater drainage system connected to a public storm sewer system.
Parking areas will be clearly identified by markings approved by the building
official.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Wheel Stops: Wheel stops of masonry, steel, curb or another approved
material shall be placed near all interior parking lot lines to protect
abutting property and also along street lines to prevent protrusion of vehicles
into any right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Tandem Spaces Prohibited: No parking spaces shall be designed in
"tandem" so that ingress or egress for one space is blocked by a second space.
This prohibition shall not apply to single-family and duplex structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Design: All parking spaces shall provide ease of use, permitting
access to the motor vehicle from both sides, with no portion of the structure
improvements blocking access to the motor vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Maintenance: All tree planting areas, parking lots, garages,
driveways and parking areas shall be maintained at all times so as to be free
of potholes, damaged or broken curbs, damaged or broken wheel stops and other
damaged or neglected features.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Use Restrictions: Except as otherwise provided in this title, no
space, parking lot or garage shall be used for any purpose other than the
temporary storage of motor vehicles related to the premises. The leasing or
rental of spaces or the storage of merchandise and the sale or commercial
repair of vehicles is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Driveway Requirements: Each required off street parking space shall
open directly upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide
safe and efficient means of passengers to the vehicle and vehicular access to
such parking spaces. All driveways shall be surfaced with a bituminous or
concrete pavement, cement paver bricks, or a similar hard surface approved by
the building official, providing an all weather, durable and dustless surface.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Curb Cuts: No driveway across a public property or curb cut shall
exceed a width of twenty six feet (26') without the prior written approval of
the zoning administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Traffic Design: All on site parking spaces, loading facilities,
parking lots, areas and garages shall be located and designed to provide
sufficient vehicular access to adjacent streets to least interfere with
pedestrian and traffic movements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Open Or Enclosed Spaces:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Off street parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Off street parking spaces open to the sky may be located in any
yard except a required front yard in a residential district. Except as
otherwise provided for accessory structures, enclosed buildings and carports
containing off street parking shall be subject to the yard requirements
applicable in the district in which located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Screening Requirements: All open off street parking areas
containing more than six (6) parking spaces shall be effectively screened on
each side that adjoins any property situated in a residential district by a
wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge not less than five feet (5') nor
more than eight feet (8') in height 1 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Lighting:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any lighting used to illuminate buildings or parking areas,
including illuminated signs, must be controlled and directed away from
adjoining properties so that it does not exceed 0.5 foot- candle at any
property line in or adjacent to the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-3A or R-4 district or 1.0
foot-candle in any business district. Measurements shall be made at the
property line using a light meter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Approved lighting shall be provided for off street parking
spaces, and such lighting shall be arranged so as to prevent a direct glare of
beams onto any adjacent or public or private property.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Location: All parking spaces required to serve buildings or uses shall
be located on the same lot as the building or use served, or an adjoining lot
under the same ownership as the principal lot. Provided, that no off street
parking facilities for any business shall be located in a residential district.
Further provided, that where parking is provided on an adjoining lot under
common ownership, there shall be submitted a lease, agreement, covenant,
easement, or other document satisfactory to the city guaranteeing the provision
and maintenance of the required parking facilities during the existence of the
use. Off street parking spaces may not be located in any required front or side
yard, and no parking shall be permitted in any required front or side yard
setback.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Repair And Service Prohibited: No motor vehicle repair work or service
of any kind shall be permitted in association with any off street parking
facilities.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Computation Of Number Of Spaces: When a determination of the number of
off street parking spaces required by this title results in a requirement of a
fractional space, the fraction shall be counted as one parking space. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 10-3-7-4B2 of this code.
11-8-5: REQUIRED PARKING SPACES; ASSESSMENT IN LIEU:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Required Spaces: Adequate off street parking spaces shall be provided
to accommodate all the motor vehicles of residents or employees, visitors and
customers, and the vehicles used in the conduct of any business or enterprise,
but in no case shall the number of off street parking spaces provided be less
than the minimum prescribed in the following schedule:
Dwelling And Lodging Uses:
                                                                             2 parking
                                                                             spaces per
                                                                             dwelling unit.
                                                                             No parking
Â Â Â Duplex dwellings                                                       shall be
                                                                             permitted in
                                                                             any required
                                                                             front or side
                                                                             yard setback.
                                                                             At least 2
                                                                             parking spaces,
                                                                             plus 1.25
                                                                             parking spaces
                                                                             for each
Â Â Â Hotels and motels                                                      rental, plus
                                                                             additional
                                                                             spaces for any
                                                                             other indicated
                                                                             uses upon the
                                                                             premises (i.e.,
                                                                             restaurant).
                                                                             2 parking
                                                                             spaces per
                                                                             dwelling unit,
                                                                             plus 1 visitor
                                                                             space per each
                                                                             2 dwelling
                                                                             units; 1/2 of
                                                                             all parking
Â Â Â Multiple-family dwellings 1 , including condominiums 2                 spaces must be
                                                                             provided under
                                                                             or within the
                                                                             principal
                                                                             building. No
                                                                             parking shall
                                                                             be permitted in
                                                                             any required
                                                                             front or side
                                                                             yard setback.
                                                                             At least 2
                                                                             parking spaces.
                                                                             No parking
Â Â Â Single-family dwellings                                                shall be
                                                                             permitted in
                                                                             any required
                                                                             front or side
                                                                             yard setback.
                                                                             2 enclosed
                                                                             parking spaces
                                                                             shall be
                                                                             required from
                                                                             and after
                                                                             September 1,
                                                                             2006, for: 1)
                                                                             all newly
                                                                             constructed
                                                                             dwellings; 2)
                                                                             each dwelling
                                                                             unit in any
                                                                             building where
                                                                             there is work
                                                                             which results
                                                                             in an increase
                                                                             in dwelling
                                                                             units within a
                                                                             dwelling above
                                                                             that which was
                                                                             lawful and
                                                                             existing prior
                                                                             to the issuance
                                                                             of permits; and
                                                                             3) any
Â Â Â Enclosed parking required                                              restoration,
                                                                             rebuilding or
                                                                             other work on
                                                                             an existing
                                                                             dwelling when
                                                                             the cost
                                                                             thereof exceeds
                                                                             50 percent of
                                                                             the value of
                                                                             such dwelling
                                                                             before such
                                                                             work. Such
                                                                             enclosed
                                                                             parking shall
                                                                             be a garage
                                                                             with a minimum
                                                                             of 400 square
                                                                             feet in size
                                                                             containing not
                                                                             less than 2
                                                                             parking stalls
                                                                             for each
                                                                             dwelling unit
                                                                             and located on
                                                                             the same zoning
                                                                             lot as the
                                                                             dwelling.
Business And Commercial Uses:
                                                                             All business
                                                                             and commercial
                                                                             establishments,
                                                                             except those
                                                                             specified
Â Â Â Minimum requirement                                                    hereafter,
                                                                             shall provide
                                                                             at least 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 300
                                                                             square feet of
                                                                             floor area.
                                                                             At least 5
                                                                             parking spaces
Â Â Â Automobile service and repair stations                                 in addition to
                                                                             those minimum
                                                                             requirements
                                                                             above.
                                                                             At least 5
                                                                             parking spaces
                                                                             for each alley,
                                                                             plus such
                                                                             additional
Â Â Â Bowling alleys                                                         spaces as may
                                                                             be required
                                                                             herein for
                                                                             affiliated uses
                                                                             such as
                                                                             restaurants and
                                                                             the like.
                                                                             At least 15
                                                                             parking spaces
                                                                             per 1,000
                                                                             square feet of
                                                                             floor area,
                                                                             plus at least 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 4
Â Â Â Fast food, drive-ins and carryout establishments                       persons based
                                                                             upon the
                                                                             maximum number
                                                                             of persons that
                                                                             can be
                                                                             accommodated at
                                                                             the same time
                                                                             in accordance
                                                                             with the design
                                                                             capacity.
                                                                             At least 1
                                                                             space for each
                                                                             2 machines
Â Â Â Laundromat                                                             (washer, dryer
                                                                             or self-serve
                                                                             dry cleaner)
                                                                             located on the
                                                                             premises.
                                                                             At least 3
                                                                             parking spaces
                                                                             for each
                                                                             examination or
Â Â Â Medical and dental facilities                                          treatment room
                                                                             in addition to
                                                                             those minimum
                                                                             requirements
                                                                             above.
                                                                             1 parking space
                                                                             for each
                                                                             vehicle
Â Â Â Parcel post pick up and delivery, mailbox services, and all delivery   maintained on
services                                                                     the premises,
                                                                             in addition to
                                                                             those minimum
                                                                             requirements
                                                                             above.
                                                                             At least 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 4
                                                                             persons based
                                                                             upon the
                                                                             maximum number
                                                                             of persons that
                                                                             can be
Â Â Â Restaurant and food establishments (excluding fast food, drive-ins and accommodated at
carryouts)                                                                   the same time
                                                                             in accordance
                                                                             with the
                                                                             designed
                                                                             capacity, in
                                                                             addition to
                                                                             those minimum
                                                                             requirements
                                                                             above.
                                                                             No less than
                                                                             the minimum
                                                                             number of
                                                                             spaces required
Â Â Â Telephone answering services and related telephone businesses          above, and such
                                                                             additional
                                                                             spaces as
                                                                             required by the
                                                                             code official.
                                                                             At least 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 4
Â Â Â Theaters                                                               seats, in
                                                                             addition to
                                                                             those minimum
                                                                             requirements
                                                                             above.
                                                                             At least 15
                                                                             parking spaces
                                                                             for each chapel
                                                                             or parlor, plus
                                                                             1 parking space
                                                                             for each
Â Â Â Undertaking establishments and funeral parlors                         vehicle
                                                                             maintained on
                                                                             the premises,
                                                                             in addition to
                                                                             those minimum
                                                                             requirements
                                                                             above.
Other Uses:
                                                                             At least 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 4
                                                                             seats or 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 4
                                                                             individuals per
                                                                             the designed
                                                                             occupancy load
Â Â Â Churches and temples                                                   of the
                                                                             structure,
                                                                             whichever is
                                                                             greater, in
                                                                             addition to the
                                                                             minimum number
                                                                             of spaces
                                                                             required under
                                                                             "business and
                                                                             commercial
                                                                             uses" above.
                                                                             At least 1
                                                                             parking space
Â Â Â Elementary school, nursery school and junior high school, public or    for each 2
private                                                                      faculty members
                                                                             and other full
                                                                             time employees.
                                                                             At least 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 10
                                                                             students based
                                                                             upon the
Â Â Â High schools, public or private                                        maximum number
                                                                             of students
                                                                             attending
                                                                             classes on the
                                                                             premises at any
                                                                             one time in any
                                                                             24 hours.
                                                                             At least 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 2
                                                                             hospital beds,
                                                                             plus 1 parking
                                                                             space for each
Â Â Â Hospitals                                                              2 employees
                                                                             (other than
                                                                             doctors), plus
                                                                             1 parking space
                                                                             for each doctor
                                                                             assigned to the
                                                                             staff.
                                                                             At least 1
                                                                             parking space
                                                                             for each 4
                                                                             persons
                                                                             pursuant to the
                                                                             designed
                                                                             occupancy load
Â Â Â Private clubs and lodges                                               of the
                                                                             structure, in
                                                                             addition to the
                                                                             minimum
                                                                             requirements
                                                                             under "business
                                                                             and commercial
                                                                             uses" above.
                                                                             Parking spaces
                                                                             for other
                                                                             permitted or
                                                                             special uses
                                                                             not listed
                                                                             above shall be
                                                                             provided in
                                                                             accordance with
                                                                             the
                                                                             determination
Â Â Â Miscellaneous                                                          of the zoning
                                                                             administrator
                                                                             with respect to
                                                                             the number of
                                                                             spaces that are
                                                                             required to
                                                                             serve employees
                                                                             and/or the
                                                                             visiting public
                                                                             at each such
                                                                             use.
Â 
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. Ord. 2006-O-29, 9-5-2006)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Assessment In Lieu Of Parking Spaces: In the event that parking, as
required by this title, cannot be provided and proper variation therefor has
been obtained, the owner shall be subject to an assessment in lieu of providing
said parking. The assessment shall be established by the city council. This
variation requirement and assessment shall be applicable pursuant to section
11-8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
  1. See also sections
1 11-5D-2 and
  11-5E-2 of this title.
2 2. See also section
  11-11-3 of this title.
11-8-6: OFF STREET LOADING REGULATIONS:
Off street loading spaces or berths accessory to the designated uses shall be
provided as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Use Of Loading Spaces: Space allocated for any off street loading berth
shall not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for
any off street parking facilities or portions thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Location; Screening: All required loading spaces or berths shall be
located on the same lot as the use served. All motor vehicles, loading berths
and off street access thereto which abut or are adjacent to a residence
district shall be completely screened therefrom by building walls, or a
uniformly painted solid fence, wall or door, or any combination thereof, not
less than five feet (5') nor more than eight feet (8') in height 1 . No
permitted or required loading space or berth shall be located within forty feet
(40') of the nearest point of the intersection of any two (2) streets or
highways. No loading space or berth shall be located in a required front or
side yard, and any loading space or berth located in a required rear yard shall
be open to the sky.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Area: Unless otherwise specified, a required off street loading space
or berth shall be ten feet (10') in width by at least twenty five feet (25') in
length, exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical
clearance of at least fifteen feet (15').
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Access: Each required off street loading space or berth shall be
designated with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street, highway or
alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic movement. (Ord. 2003-
O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Surfacing: New open off street loading areas shall be improved with a
compacted select gravel base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced
with an all weather, dustless material. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Minimum Facilities: Uses for which off street loading facilities are
required by this chapter but which are located in buildings that have a gross
floor area of less than one thousand (1,000) square feet shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities, accessible by motor vehicle, from any adjacent
alley, service drive, or open space on the same lot.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Repair And Service Prohibited: No motor vehicle repair work or service
of any kind shall be permitted in conjunction with any off street loading
facilities.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Loading Berth Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No off street loading facilities are required in any residential
district. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â On the same lot with every building, or part thereof, erected
hereafter, for any use permitted in a business district, the following minimum
off street loading spaces shall be provided:
Â 
Gross Floor Area In 1,000 Square Feet Required Number And Size Of Loading
                                      Spaces
Â Â Â 1Â Â Â toÂ Â Â 10               1 (10 feet by 25 feet)
Â Â Â 11Â Â Â toÂ Â Â 25              2 (10 feet by 25 feet each)
Â Â Â 26Â Â Â toÂ Â Â 40              2 (10 feet by 50 feet each)
Â Â Â 41Â Â Â toÂ Â Â 100             3 (10 feet by 50 feet each)
                                      3, plus 1 (10 feet by 50 feet each) for
Over 100                              each additional 100,000 square feet, or
                                      fraction thereof
Â 
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 10-3-7-4B2 of this code.
CHAPTER 9
NONCONFORMING, NONPERMITTED USES
SECTION:
11-9-1: Continuance Of Nonconforming Use
11-9-2: Discontinuance Of Use
11-9-3: Change Of Use
11-9-4: Additions And Enlargements
11-9-5: Repairs And Alterations
11-9-6: Damage And Destruction
11-9-7: Termination And Removal Of Nonconforming Uses
11-9-8: Nonpermitted, Nonconforming, Illegal Uses
11-9-9: Burden On Owner As To Use
11-9-1: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any lawfully established use of a building or land at the effective
date hereof, or of amendments hereto, that does not conform to the use
regulations for the district in which it is located shall be deemed to be a
legal nonconforming use and may be continued except as otherwise provided
herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any legal nonconforming building or structure may be continued in use,
provided there is no physical change other than necessary maintenance and
repair, except as otherwise permitted herein.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any building for which a permit has been lawfully granted prior to the
effective date hereof or of amendments hereto may be completed in accordance
with the approved plans, provided construction is started within six (6) months
from issuance of permit and diligently prosecuted to completion. Such building
shall thereafter be deemed a lawfully established building. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-
18-2003)
11-9-2: DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any nonconforming use of land which is discontinued for a period of
thirty (30) days or more, and any nonconforming use of a building or structure
which is discontinued for a period of one year or more shall not be
reestablished, and any future use of such building, structure, or land shall
conform with the provisions of this title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A nonconforming use not authorized by the provisions of this title
shall be discontinued and not reestablished; except, if the provisions of this
title find the use to be conforming to the district in which it is then
located. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-9-3: CHANGE OF USE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A nonconforming use of a building or structure, or part thereof, may be
changed to a use of the same or of a more restricted character, but may not
thereafter be changed to any less restricted use. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Whenever any part of a building, structure or land occupied by a
nonconforming use is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the
provisions of this title, such premises shall not thereafter be used or
occupied by any nonconforming use, even though the building may have been
originally designed and constructed for the prior nonconforming use. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
11-9-4: ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only if the entire
building is thereafter devoted to a conforming use and is made to conform to
all the regulations of the district in which it is located.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be altered
in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied
by such nonconforming use.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No nonconforming building in any residential district shall be so
altered as to increase the number of dwelling units therein.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required usable open space, or any land beyond the boundaries of the
zoning lot as it existed at the effective date hereof, or to displace any
conforming use in the same building or on the same parcel. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-
18-2003)
11-9-5: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use is permitted including necessary nonstructural repairs and
incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No structural alterations shall be made in a building or other
structure containing a nonconforming use, except in the following situations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When the alteration is required by law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â When the alterations will actually result in eliminating the
nonconforming use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â When a building containing residential nonconforming uses may be
altered in any way to improve livability, provided no structural alteration
shall be made which would increase the number of dwelling units or the bulk or
height of the building. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-9-6: DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION:
If a building or other structure containing a nonconforming use is damaged or
destroyed by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its
replacement value at that time, the building or other structure can only be
rebuilt or used thereafter for a conforming use in compliance with all the
provisions of the district, except the lot size requirements for lots of record
established prior to the effective date hereof. In the event the damage or
destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, based
upon prevailing costs, the building may then be restored to its original
condition, and occupancy or use of such building may be continued which existed
at the time of such partial destruction. In either event, restoration or repair
of the building or other structure must be started within a period of one year
and diligently prosecuted to completion. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-9-7: TERMINATION AND REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING USES:
The period of time during which the following nonconforming uses of buildings,
structures or land may continue or remain shall be limited to two (2) years
from the effective date hereof, or of any amendment hereto, which causes the
use to be nonconforming. Every such nonconforming use shall be completely
removed from the premises at the expiration of the two (2) year period.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any nonconforming building or structure having an assessed valuation
not in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) on the effective date hereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All nonconforming signs, billboards and outdoor advertising structures.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any nonconforming use of land where no enclosed building is involved,
or where the only buildings employed are accessory or incidental to such use,
or where such use is maintained in connection with a conforming building. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-9-8: NONPERMITTED, NONCONFORMING, ILLEGAL USES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The following uses are not permitted in any zoning district:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Boarding house.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Junkyard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Lodging house.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Lodging room.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Mobile home.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Mobile home park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Tourist home.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Enumeration of any nonpermitted use in this section shall not be deemed
to imply that a use which is not enumerated herein is permitted by this title.
Enumeration of the above uses is solely intended to clarify that certain
defined terms in this title are not to be considered or implied as permitted
uses due to their inclusion as defined terms.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In the event that any person, firm, corporation or entity holds a
license, or other permit, purporting to allow the use of any of the above
nonpermitted uses, and further provided, that such license or permit is valid,
said use shall be allowed to continue until said use is abandoned and
terminated; or five (5) years from the effective date hereof, whichever shall
first occur, at which time, said use shall be treated as an illegal
nonconforming use, not authorized by the provisions of the city and shall be
entirely discontinued and cease operation. Said five (5) year time period is
hereby established as a reasonable amortization period for the normal useful
life of the types of buildings and uses which may be affected by the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-9-9: BURDEN ON OWNER AS TO USE:
In any proceeding, whether administrative or in a court of competent
jurisdiction, it shall be the burden of the property owner to establish that
the use of the building or land of which the property owner maintains validity
is in all respects conforming with the provision of this title or is otherwise
authorized to continue pursuant to the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2003-O-
15, 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Purpose And Intent
11-10-2: Qualification For Planned Unit Development
11-10-3: Preapplication Conference
11-10-4: Preliminary Plat Approval
11-10-5: Simultaneous Filing Preliminary And Final Plats; Final Plat Only
11-10-6: Final Plat Approval
11-10-7: Required Information
11-10-8: Recording Final Plat
11-10-9: Issuance Of Permits
11-10-10: Changes In Planned Unit Development
11-10-11: Completion Schedule
11-10-12: Location
11-10-13: Standards
11-10-14: Findings Of Fact
11-10-15: Conditions And Guarantees
11-10-16: Joint Planning Commission Preemption
11-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of the planned unit development is to permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A maximum choice in the types of environment available to the public
by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other provisions of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Permanent preservation of common open space and recreation areas and
facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation, topographic
and geologic features.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better development and design and the construction
of aesthetic amenities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, and other facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A land use which promotes the public health, safety, comfort,
morals, and welfare.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Intent: The planned unit development is intended to provide for
developments, incorporating a single type or a variety of related uses which
are planned and developed as a unit. The planned unit development should
provide amenities not otherwise required by law and should establish facilities
and open space greater than the minimums required by law. Such development may
consist of conventionally subdivided lots or provide for development by a land
use and zoning plat which establishes the location and extent of the features
of the planned unit development in keeping with the purpose of the plan. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-2: QUALIFICATION FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
To qualify for the planned unit development option, the land area to be
developed must be at least double the minimum lot size requirement for the
district in which the land is located. The option is limited to the following
districts:
Â 
R-3  Residential district (duplex dwelling)
R-3A Residential (restricted multiple dwelling)
R-4  Residential district (multi-family dwelling)
B-1  Retail business district
B-2  Service and retail business district
B-3  Low intensity business district
Â 
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-3: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
Prior to the filing of an application for approval of a planned unit
development, the developer may request of the plan commission an informal
meeting to discuss the development of the land. Said meeting shall be a part of
a regularly scheduled meeting, shall be open to the public, and included on the
agenda in advance of the meeting. The preapplication conference is not
mandatory and does not require formal application, fee, or filing of a planned
unit development plat. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
A preliminary plat of the planned unit development shall be submitted to the
mayor and city council, who shall refer same to the plan commission for public
hearing, report, and recommendation as to whether or not the mayor and city
council should issue the special use permit applied for. The required procedure
for approval of the preliminary plat shall be:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Submission: Submission of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Written application for approval of a planned unit development shall
be made on forms and in the manner prescribed by rules of the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The application shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in
section
3-2A-1 of this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The preliminary plat and supporting data shall be in accord with the
stipulations of subsection 11-10-7B of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Hearing: The plan commission shall hold a public hearing on the
application for a planned unit development, giving notice of the time and place
not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing by
publishing a notice thereof at least once in a newspaper published or having
general circulation within the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Review:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Copies of the preliminary planned unit development plat and
supporting data shall be submitted to the zoning board of appeals for their
review and recommendations. The report of the zoning board of appeals shall be
made to the plan commission within thirty (30) days and preceding the plan
commission's recommendation to the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Copies of the preliminary planned unit development plat and
supporting data shall be submitted to the plan commission for certification as
to conformity with these regulations, recommendations, and suggestions
regarding the overall design, if any.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Plan Commission Recommendation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Following the public hearing and review of the preliminary planned
unit development plat and supporting data for conformity to these regulations,
the plan commission shall, within sixty (60) days, recommend approval,
modification, or disapproval, and the reasons therefor, or indicate why a
report cannot be rendered to the mayor and city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â As a condition to the approval of the preliminary plat, the plan
commission shall set forth, in a separate communication to the mayor and city
council, findings of fact, in accord with section
11-10-14 of this chapter, on which they base their approval and describing how
the proposal meets the standards of section
11-10-13 of this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Mayor And City Council Decision: The mayor and city council, after
receipt of the preliminary unit development plat from the plan commission,
shall approve, modify, or disapprove the preliminary plat. In the case of
approval, or approval with modification, the city council shall pass an
ordinance granting the special use and indicate their approval upon the plat,
and arrange zoning map modifications as necessary. The city council may require
such special conditions as they deem necessary to ensure conformance with the
intent of all comprehensive plan elements and the stated purposes of the
planned development.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Preliminary Plat Approval No Guarantee Of Final Plat Approval: Approval
of a preliminary planned unit development plat shall not constitute approval of
the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval to the
layout submitted on the preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the
final plat which will be submitted for approval of the city and subsequent
recording upon the fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations and
conditions of the preliminary approval, if any. The final plat shall be
approved as the final land use and zoning plat if it conforms with the
preliminary land use and zoning plat. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-5: SIMULTANEOUS FILING PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS; FINAL PLAT ONLY:
The preliminary and final plat may be filed and approved simultaneously or the
final plat may be filed and approved without a preliminary plat if all of the
land is to be developed at one time, and if all requirements hereof are met.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-6: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
The final planned unit development plat shall conform substantially to the
preliminary plat as approved, and if desired by the developer, it may be
submitted in stages with each stage reflecting the approved preliminary plat
which is proposed to be recorded and developed; provided, however, that such
portion conforms to all requirements of these regulations. The required
procedure for approval of a final plat shall be:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Submission:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A final planned unit development plat and other supporting data
required for approval shall be submitted to the plan commission in accord with
the provisions of subsection 11-10-7C of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The final plats must be submitted for approval in accordance with
agreed to scheduling, but not later than five (5) years from the approval of
the preliminary plat. In the event that same is not done, the plan commission
shall initiate such zoning changes as it deems necessary to preserve the public
interest.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Final plats and supporting data shall show in detail the design,
location, and use of all buildings and overall land development as well as such
additional information as the plan commission may require.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Plan Commission Review:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The final plat and supporting data shall be submitted to the plan
commission for certification that the final plat is in conformity with these
regulations and in agreement with the approved preliminary plat.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â After review of the final plat, the plan commission shall, within
thirty (30) days, recommend approval or disapproval, and the reasons therefor,
to the mayor and city council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Mayor And City Council Decision: The mayor and city council, after
receipt of the final plat from the plan commission, shall approve or disapprove
the final plat and shall pass an ordinance authorizing the planned unit
development as a special use and allowing the issuance of a zoning certificate
and all other necessary permits. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-7: REQUIRED INFORMATION:
The planned unit development plats and supporting data shall include at least
the following information:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Preapplication Stage:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Site Information: Data regarding site conditions, land
characteristics, available community facilities and utilities, existing
covenants, and other related information.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sketch Plan: A drawing in simple sketch form showing the proposed
location and extent of the land uses, streets, lots, and other features.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Legal Description: A property survey and legal description of the
site proposed for development.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Preliminary Plat Stage:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Detailed Plan: A drawing of the planned unit development shall be
prepared at a scale of not less than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100') and shall show such designations as proposed streets (public and
private), all buildings and their use, common open space, recreation
facilities, parking areas, service areas, and other facilities to indicate the
character of the proposed development. The submission may be composed of one or
more sheets and drawings and shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Boundary Lines: Bearings and distances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Easements: Location, width and purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Streets On And Adjacent To The Tract: Street names, rights of way
widths, existing or proposed centerline elevations, pavement type, walks,
curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Utilities On And Adjacent To The Tract: Location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary, storm, and combined sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone lines, and
streetlights; direction and distance to and size of nearest usable water mains
and sewers adjacent to the tract showing invert elevation of sewers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Ground Elevations On The Tract: For land that slopes less than
one-half percent (0.5%), show one foot (1') contours; show spot elevations at
all breaks in grades, along all drainage channels or swales, and at selected
points not more than one hundred feet (100') apart in all directions; for land
that slopes more than one-half percent (0.5%), show two foot (2') contours.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Subsurface Conditions On The Tract: If required by the plan
commission, location and results of tests made to generally ascertain
subsurface soil, rock, and ground water conditions; depth to ground water
unless test pits are dry at a depth of five feet (5'); location and results of
soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Other Conditions On The Tract: Watercourses, floodplains,
marshes, rock outcrop, wooded areas, isolated preservable trees one foot (1')
or more in diameter, houses, barns, accessory buildings, and other significant
features.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Other Conditions On Adjacent Land: Approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers, and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; for adjacent platted land, refer to subdivision plat by name,
and show approximate percent built up, typical lot size, and dwelling type.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Zoning On And Adjacent To The Tract:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Proposed Public Improvements: Highways or other major
improvements planned by public authorities for future construction on or near
the tract.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Open Space: All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for
public use or reserved for the use of all property owners with the purpose
indicated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Buildings Other Than Single-Family Dwellings: General
location, purpose, and height, in feet or stories, of each building other than
single-family residences on individually platted lots.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Map Data: Name of development, north point, and scale, date
of preparation and acreage of site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Miscellaneous: Such additional information as may be required
by the plan commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Character: Explanation of the character of the planned development
and the manner in which it has been planned to take advantage of the
flexibility of these regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Ownership: Statement of present and proposed ownership of all land
within the project, including present tract designation according to official
records in the offices of the county recorder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Names And Addresses Of Those To Receive Notice: The names and
addresses of the persons to whom the notice of hearing to be held by the
planning agency should be sent (the subdivider, the designer of the
subdivision, and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to be
platted).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Schedule: Development schedule indicating:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Stages in which the project will be built with emphasis on area,
density, use and public facilities, such as open space, to be developed with
each stage. Overall design on each state shall be shown on the plat and through
supporting graphic material.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Approximate dates for beginning and completion of each state.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â If different land use types are to be included within the planned
unit development, the schedule must include the mix of uses to be built in each
stage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Covenants: Proposed agreements, provisions, or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned development
and any of its common open space.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Density: Provide information on the density of residential uses and
the number of dwelling units by type.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Nonresidential Use: Provide information on the type and amount of
ancillary and nonresidential uses in a residential development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Service Facilities: Provide information on all service facilities
and off street parking facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Architectural Plans: Preliminary architectural plans for all
primary buildings shall be submitted in sufficient detail to permit an
understanding of the style of the development, the design of the building, and
the number, size, and type of dwelling units.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Facilities Plans: Preliminary plans for:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Roads including classification, width of right of way, width
of pavement, and typical construction details.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Sanitary sewers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Storm drainage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Water supply system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Lighting program.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Need: Provide an economic feasibility study of the proposed
development, including information on land utilization and marketing potential.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Final Plat Stage:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Final Detailed Plan: A final land use and zoning plat, suitable for
recording with the county recorder of deeds, shall be prepared. The purpose of
the land use and zoning plat is to designate, with particularity, the land
subdivided into conventional lots as well as the division of other land, not so
treated, into common open areas and building areas. The final land use and
zoning plat shall include, but not be limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â An accurate legal description of the entire area under immediate
development within the planned development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same form and
meeting all the requirements of a normal subdivision plat.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including common open space.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Designation of the exact location of all buildings to be
constructed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Certificates, seals, and signatures required for the dedication
of lands, and recording the document.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Tabulations on separate unsubdivided use area, including land
area, number of buildings, number of dwelling units, and dwelling units per
acre.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Common Open Space Documents: All common open space shall be either
conveyed to a municipal or public corporation or conveyed to a not for profit
corporation or entity established for the purpose of benefiting the owners and
residents of the planned development or retained by the developer with legally
binding guarantees, in a form approved by the city attorney, that the common
open space will be permanently preserved as open area. All land conveyed to a
not for profit corporation or like entity shall be subject to the right of said
corporation to impose a legally enforceable lien for maintenance and
improvement of the common open space.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public Facilities: All public facilities and improvements made
necessary as a result of the planned unit development shall be either
constructed in advance of the approval of the final plat or escrow deposits,
letter of credit in a form approved by the city attorney, or performance bonds
posted to guarantee construction of the required improvements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Guarantee Deposit: A deposit shall be made to the city in cash,
letter of credit in a form and amount approved by the city attorney, or
maintenance bond equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the estimated cost of public
facility installations. This deposit shall be a guarantee of satisfactory
performance of the facilities constructed within the planned unit development
and shall be held by the city for a period of eighteen (18) months. After such
eighteen (18) months, the deposit shall be refunded if no defects have
developed, or if any defects have developed, then the balance of such deposit
shall be refunded after reimbursement for amounts expended in correcting
defective facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Delinquent Taxes: A certificate shall be furnished from the county
collector that he finds no delinquent taxes and that all special assessments
constituting a lien on the whole or any part of the property of the planned
unit development have been paid.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Covenants: Final agreements, provisions, or covenants which will
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned unit
development. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-8: RECORDING FINAL PLAT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The ordinance authorizing construction of the planned unit development
shall be effective only upon recording of the final planned unit development
plat and supporting data with the county recorder of deeds. No permit allowing
construction of a building or other development shall be granted until the
required recording of the final plat.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The purpose of the final plat is to designate, with particularity, the
land subdivided into conventional lots as well as the division of other lands,
not so subdivided, into common open areas and building sites. The preliminary
plat shall generally locate buildings, whereas the final plat shall show the
exact location of each building.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The recording of the final plat shall inform all who deal with the
planned unit development of the restrictions placed upon the land and act as a
zoning control device. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-9: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
Permits are to be issued only after the final planned unit development plat and
supporting data have been recorded with the recorder of deeds, and shall be
issued in full conformance with chapter 3 of this title. No building permit
shall be issued for any structure until the approval of the final plat. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-10: CHANGES IN PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Compliance Required: The planned unit development project shall be
developed only according to the approved and recorded final plat, and all
supporting data together with all recorded amendments shall be binding on the
applicants, their successors, grantees, and assigns and shall limit and control
the use of premises and location of structures in the planned unit development
project as set forth therein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Major Changes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Changes which alter the concept or intent of the planned unit
development, including increases in density, increases in the height of
buildings, reductions of proposed open space, changes in the development
schedule, changes in road standards, or changes in the final governing
agreements, provisions, or covenants, or other changes, may be approved only by
submission of a new preliminary plat and supporting data and following the
preliminary approval steps and subsequent amendment of the final land use and
zoning plat.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All changes to the final plat shall be recorded with the county
recorder of deeds as amendments to the final plat or reflected in the recording
of a new "corrected" final plat.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Minor Changes: The plan commission may approve minor changes in the
planned unit development which do not change the concept or intent of the
development without going through the preliminary approval steps. Minor changes
shall be any change not defined as a major change. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-11: COMPLETION SCHEDULE:
The mayor and city council shall consider the planned unit development subject
to revocation if construction falls more than two (2) years behind the schedule
filed with the final plat. Extensions in the building schedule may be granted
by the plan commission. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-12: LOCATION:
The planned unit development is authorized as a special use in each of the
zoning districts of this title. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-13: STANDARDS:
The planned unit development must meet the following standards:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Compliance With Comprehensive Plan: A planned unit development must
conform with the intent and spirit of the proposals of any comprehensive plan
adopted and then in effect.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Ownership; Size: The site of the planned unit development must be under
single ownership and/or unified control and be not less than sixty thousand
(60,000) square feet in area.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Compatibility: The uses permitted in a planned unit development must be
of a type and so located so as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon
surrounding properties.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Need: A clear showing of need must be made.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Space Between Buildings: The minimum horizontal distance between
buildings shall be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Fifteen feet (15') between 1-story, 2-story, 21/2-story buildings,
or combinations thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Equal to the height of the taller buildings in the case of
freestanding unattached buildings other than 1-story, 2-story, or 21/2-story
buildings.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Yards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The required yards along the periphery of the planned unit
development shall be at least equal in width or depth to that of the adjacent
zoning district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Buildings of more than twenty four feet (24') in height shall
provide a setback from any property line of not less than equal to the height
of such buildings.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Parking Requirements: Adequate parking shall be provided, and in no
event shall the parking be less than that provided for in other provisions of
this title.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Traffic: Adequate provision shall be made to provide ingress and egress
so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in public streets.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Density:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The density of any planned unit development shall not exceed by more
than ten percent (10%) the density allowed in the district in which the planned
unit development is located. Land within the planned unit development which is
used for industrial purposes, commercial purposes, and open space may be
included as gross area for calculation of density. The requirements of this
subsection shall not apply to land within the I-1 limited industrial district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Ground area of the uses not normally permitted in the district in
which said planned unit development is located shall not exceed, by more than
twenty percent (20%), the total ground area of said development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The planned unit development may depart from strict conformance with
the required density, dimension, area, bulk, use, and other regulations for the
standard zoning districts and other provisions of this title to the extent
specified in the preliminary land use and zoning plat and documents authorizing
the planned unit development so long as the planned unit development will not
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort, or
general welfare. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-14: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The plan commission shall provide findings of fact setting forth the reasons
for the recommendation, and said findings shall set forth, with particularity,
in what respects the proposal would be in the public interest including, but
not limited to, findings of fact on the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In what respects the proposed plan is consistent with the stated
purpose of the planned unit development regulations.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The extent to which the proposed plan meets the requirements and
standards of the planned unit development regulations.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The extent to which the proposed plan departs from the zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including, but not limited to, the density, dimension, area, bulk, and use, and
the reasons why such departures are deemed to be in the public interest.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The physical design of the proposed plan and the manner in which said
design makes adequate provision for public services, provides adequate control
over vehicular traffic, provides for and protects designated common open space,
and furthers the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The relationship and compatibility of the proposed plan to the adjacent
properties and neighborhood.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The desirability of the proposed plan to physical development, tax base
and economic well being of the entire community.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The conformity with the intent and spirit of the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-15: CONDITIONS AND GUARANTEES:
Prior to the granting of any planned unit development, the plan commission may
recommend, and the city council may stipulate, such conditions and restrictions
upon the establishment, location, design, layout, height, density,
construction, maintenance, aesthetics, operation and other elements of the
planned unit development as deemed necessary for the protection of the public
interest, improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent area, and
to secure compliance with the standards specified in section
11-10-13 of this chapter. In all cases in which planned unit developments are
granted, the city council shall require such evidence and guarantees as it may
deem necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith
are being and will be complied with. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-10-16: JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION PREEMPTION:
The provisions of title 2, chapter 3, "Fort Sheridan Joint Planning Commission"
(JPC), of this code, where applicable, shall supersede the provisions of this
chapter. Hearings and review hereunder shall be held by the JPC rather than the
plan commission or zoning board of appeals as required pursuant to title 2,
chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 11
CONDOMINIUMS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Definitions
11-11-2: Statement Required With Plans
11-11-3: Parking Spaces
11-11-4: Masonry Construction
11-11-5: Zoning District Regulations
11-11-6: Strict Scrutiny
11-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The definitions set forth in 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 605, being
the Illinois condominium property act, are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as the definitions of this chapter unless the context otherwise
requires.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For purposes of this chapter, a "condominium" means any property
subject to the Illinois condominium property act; however, units which are not
located within the same building shall not qualify as "condominiums". (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-11-2: STATEMENT REQUIRED WITH PLANS:
The developer must, when submitting its initial plans, indicate that the
property will be used as a condominium. Failure to so notify will preclude the
use of the property as a condominium, and therefore, it must be developed as
otherwise required by the this title, as amended, then in effect. (Ord. 2003-O-
15, 3-18-2003)
11-11-3: PARKING SPACES 1 :
The following parking requirements are required for condominiums: (2009 Code)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Two (2) parking spaces per dwelling unit, plus one visitor space per
each condominium unit.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â One-half (1/2) of all parking spaces must be provided under or within
the principal building.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No parking shall be permitted in any required front or side yard
setback. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 11-8-5A of this title.
11-11-4: MASONRY CONSTRUCTION:
All condominiums constructed, altered or converted must have structural
elements, common element walls, unit and common element ceilings and floors of
solid masonry or concrete construction only. Provided, however, that the
separation between the stories or floors of conversion condominiums need not be
of solid masonry or concrete construction, if said separation between stories
or floors does not separate one condominium dwelling unit from another. In the
sole discretion of the building official, the separation between stories or
floors of all condominiums hereinafter constructed or altered need not be of
solid masonry or concrete construction, if said separation between stories or
floors does not separate one condominium dwelling unit from another. (Ord.
2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-11-5: ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
Condominiums may be constructed, altered or converted only in the R-3A, R-4 and
business districts. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â R-3A District: All condominiums constructed, altered, or converted in
an R-3A district shall comply with all building and zoning requirements as
required under the comprehensive amendment to the Highwood zoning ordinance of
1930, as amended, and all building ordinances, as amended, including, without
limitation, all adopted international building codes as heretofore adopted by
the city, except as follows: (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Parking requirements shall comply as set forth in section
11-11-3 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All references to the number of bedrooms per unit are hereby
specifically repealed. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â R-4 District: All condominiums constructed, altered, or converted in an
R-4 district shall comply with all building and zoning requirements as required
under the comprehensive amendment to the Highwood zoning ordinance of 1930, as
amended, and all building ordinances, as amended, including, without
limitation, all adopted international building codes as heretofore adopted by
the city; except, that parking requirements shall comply as set forth in
section
11-11-3 of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Business Districts: All condominiums constructed, altered, or converted
in any business district shall comply with all building and zoning requirements
as required under the comprehensive amendment to the Highwood zoning ordinance
of 1930, as amended, and all building ordinances, as amended, including,
without limitation, all adopted international building codes as heretofore
adopted by the city; except, that parking requirements shall comply as set
forth in section
11-11-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-11-6: STRICT SCRUTINY:
No person shall subvert the subdivision requirements of the city or the state,
or the minimum lot size requirements or other requirements of this title
through the designation of a property as a condominium(s). (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-
18-2003)
CHAPTER 12
SATELLITE ANTENNAS
SECTION:
11-12-1: Findings
11-12-2: Location In Yards
11-12-3: Compliance Required
11-12-1: FINDINGS:
The city heretofore has regulated satellite receive-only antennas, but the need
for such regulation has lessened due to advancing technology and size of such
antennas. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
11-12-2: LOCATION IN YARDS:
No antenna, nor any part of any antenna supporting structure, shall be located,
installed or maintained in any part of any front yard, side yard setback or
rear yard setback. A variation or special use permit may be granted to permit
location in a rear yard setback if all other provisions of applicable
ordinances, including the applicable Highwood ordinance adopting the IBC 1 ,
are complied with. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 10, chapter 1 of this code.
11-12-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No antenna, nor any part of any antenna supporting structure, shall be
located, installed or maintained in violation of any other restrictions in this
title, or any other applicable ordinances. (Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Antennas and antenna supporting structures in the city are also subject
to the requirements of the Highwood ordinance adopting the IBC 1 , as amended.
(Ord. 2003-O-15, 3-18-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 2. See title 10, chapter 1 of this code.
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose; Part Of Official Plan
12-1-2: Definition
12-1-3: Division Of Lands Without Platting Unlawful
12-1-4: Plat Approval And Compliance Required
12-1-5: Suitability Of Land For Subdividing
12-1-6: Acceptance Of Streets By City
12-1-7: Subdivision Of Small Tracts
12-1-8: Variances
12-1-9: Amendments
12-1-10: Enforcement
12-1-11: Penalty
12-1-1: PURPOSE; PART OF OFFICIAL PLAN:
For the purpose of the present and future development of the city, and for the
promotion of the public health and the safety, comfort, morals and welfare of
persons living within the territory governed, the provisions and regulations of
this title, which shall govern the subdividing and platting of lands lying with
the corporate limits of the city, as now or hereafter existing, or within the
area of jurisdiction of the plan commission, as now or hereafter established
under the provisions of the statutes of the state, are hereby adopted as part
of the official plan of the city. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-2: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this title, the word "subdivision" shall mean the dividing
of a tract of land into two (2) or more lots, tracts or sites for the purpose,
either immediate or future, of sale or building development or a resubdivision
for any such purpose. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-3: DIVISION OF LANDS WITHOUT PLATTING UNLAWFUL:
From and after the effective date hereof, no lot or tract of land located
within the city, or within the area of jurisdiction of the plan commission, and
which contains an area of more than one-half (1/2) acre, shall be divided or
redivided in any manner into two (2) or more lesser tracts for building site
purposes without subdividing or resubdividing and platting such tract in the
manner provided by the statutes of the state. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-4: PLAT APPROVAL AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
From and after the effective date hereof, no plat of any subdivision shall be
valid nor entitled to record unless and until the same has been approved by the
city council in accordance with the procedure provided in this title, and no
plat of a subdivision shall be approved without compliance with the standards
of design and improvements required in this title. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-5: SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVIDING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Lands subject to flooding and land deemed to be topographically
unsuitable should not be subdivided for residential purposes, nor for such
other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property, or aggravate
erosion or flood hazard.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The plan commission shall not approve the subdivision of land if, upon
adequate investigation conducted by the plan commission, the land does not meet
the standards set forth in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-
1962)
12-1-6: ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS BY CITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If any plat of subdivision contains public streets or thoroughfares
which are therein dedicated as such, whether located within the corporate
limits of the city or outside thereof, or contains existing streets outside of
said corporate limits, the approval of the plat by the city council, or the
subsequent annexation of the property to the city, shall not constitute an
acceptance by the city of such streets or thoroughfares, nor of the
improvements constructed or installed thereon or therein, irrespective of any
act or acts by any officer, agent or employee of the city with respect to such
streets or improvements. The acceptance of such streets or thoroughfares shall
be made only by the adoption of a resolution by the city council, after there
has been filed with the city clerk a certificate by the city engineer
certifying that all improvements required to be constructed or installed in or
upon such streets or thoroughfares in connection with the approval of the plat
of subdivision by the city council have been fully completed and the
construction or installation thereof has been approved by said engineer.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No permanent connection shall be made or maintained with the sanitary
or storm sewer or water supply systems of the city to serve property within the
subdivision until the certificate by the city engineer, as provided in
subsection A of this section, has been filed, and not until any money owing to
the city for permit fees for the connections with said systems or any of them
have been paid. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-7: SUBDIVISION OF SMALL TRACTS:
When there is presented to the city council for approval, a plat of subdivision
or resubdivision of a small tract of land, if the council, after consideration
thereof and recommendation thereon by the plan commission, is of the opinion
that the intent and purpose of this title is not violated by such plat, and the
construction of the improvements herein required cannot be reasonably enforced,
the council may waive the application or enforcement of the provisions of this
title and approve such plat, without requiring further procedure. (Ord. 62-O-
18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-8: VARIANCES:
Where the subdivider can show that a provision of the standards of design or
required improvements, as set forth in chapter 3 of this title, would cause
unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to, and where, because of
topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site or surrounding
condition, and in the opinion of the city council, a departure may be made
without destroying the intent of such provisions, the city council may approve
a variance. Any variance approved shall be stated in writing in the minutes of
the city council with the reasoning set forth upon which the variance was
considered justified. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-9: AMENDMENTS:
The plan commission shall, from time to time, prepare and recommend, in
writing, to the city council such changes or additions to the provisions and
regulations herein contained for subdivision control as the plan commission may
deem necessary or advisable. Such changes or additions shall become effective
after their adoption by the city council by its passage of an amendment to this
title. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-10: ENFORCEMENT:
The city council, by resolution, shall appoint the enforcing officer of this
title, and it shall be his duty to enforce the provisions hereof. The enforcing
officer may call upon any department or official of the city to furnish him
with such information and assistance as he may deem necessary for the
observance or enforcement of this title, and it shall be the duty of such
department or officer to furnish such information and assistance whenever
required. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this title shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-2-1: Adoption Of Procedures
12-2-2: Tentative Plat And Plan
12-2-3: Final Plat
12-2-1: ADOPTION OF PROCEDURES:
The steps and proceedings set forth in this chapter are hereby adopted as the
procedure to be followed for the approval of a subdivision of land. (Ord. 62-O-
18, 12-7-1962)
12-2-2: TENTATIVE PLAT AND PLAN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Submission; Required Information: When any owner of land lying within
the corporate limits of the city or within the area of jurisdiction of the plan
commission desires to subdivide such lands, the owner shall submit to the city
council a tentative plat, with two (2) prints or copies thereof, drawn to a
scale of not less than one hundred feet to the inch (100' = 1"), with
supporting sheets which shall constitute a part thereof, showing the proposed
plan of subdivision. Such plat shall show and give the following information
insofar as possible:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The boundaries of the proposed subdivision and the distances between
corners; the total acreage contained therein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The name of the proposed subdivision; the name of the engineer who
prepared the plat.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The location of existing corporate boundary lines at or near the
proposed subdivision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The character of the lands immediately adjoining the proposed
subdivision, showing the subdivision thereof, if subdivided, and the location
and dimensions of public streets, alleys, public utility easements, street
pavements, sanitary sewer mains, stormwater mains, and water supply mains, if
any, adjoining the proposed subdivision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The then zoning classification under the city or Lake County zoning
ordinance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The location within the proposed subdivision of any existing public
streets, alleys, public utility easements, street pavements, sanitary sewer
mains, storm sewer mains, water supply mains, watercourses, bridges, culverts
and similar facilities; the location of existing buildings, if any.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The names, location, widths and other dimensions of proposed
streets, alleys, easements, parks, playgrounds and other open spaces proposed
to be dedicated for public use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The blocks and lots into which the project is proposed to be
subdivided, with the dimensions thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Contours at vertical intervals of not more than one foot (1'),
except when specifically not required by the plan commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â A general description of the type, kind, character and extent of
required improvements proposed to be constructed or installed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Summary of all restrictions intended to be imposed by the final
plat or by deeds of conveyance as to the use of all property within the
subdivision, including area of buildings for residence use, if any.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Such other information or data that the plan commission may require
for the full and complete consideration of the proposed plan of subdivision.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â City Council Action: The city council shall, by motion, refer the
tentative plat to the plan commission for consideration and approval or
disapproval.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Plan Commission Action: The plan commission shall, after receiving the
tentative plat, consider the proposed plan of subdivision as represented by
such plat and shall, thereupon, approve or disapprove the same. If the proposed
plan of subdivision is not satisfactory as presented, the plan commission may
permit the subdivider to make the changes and additions required by the plan
commission to meet the requirements of this title.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Disapproval: If the proposed plan of subdivision, as shown by the
tentative plat, is finally disapproved, the original plat shall be returned by
the plan commission to the subdivider, with a written statement of the reasons
for such disapproval.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Approval:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If the proposed plan of subdivision, as shown by the tentative plat,
is finally approved, the original plat and one print or copy of the plat shall
be endorsed by the plan commission as follows:
The proposed plan of subdivision as shown on this Plat and accompanying
documents, has received tentative approval by the Plan Commission of the City
of Highwood and said Plan Commission is now ready to receive the Final Plat for
consideration.
Dated Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â PLAN COMMISSION OF CITY OF HIGHWOOD
By Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â  Chair
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The original of the tentative plat, so endorsed, shall remain on
file with the plan commission, and the copy of the plat so endorsed shall be
returned to the subdivider. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-2-3: FINAL PLAT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Submission: After approval by the plan commission of the tentative
plat, the subdivider shall, within four (4) months thereafter, submit to the
plan commission a final plat of the subdivision, in final form for recording,
which shall be in strict accordance with the tentative plat as approved by the
plan commission, together with two (2) prints or copies. Provided, if desired
by the subdivider, the final plat may constitute only that portion of the
approved tentative plat which he proposes to record and develop at the time,
and provided, further, that such portion conforms in all respects to all
matters and things included in the tentative plat and plan insofar as they
appertain to the portion of the entire subdivision which is desired to be
developed at that time.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Contents: The final plat shall be drawn in black ink, on tracing cloth,
to a scale of not less than one hundred feet to one inch (100' = 1"). The final
plat shall specifically show the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The name or names of the owner or owners of the property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The name of the registered land surveyor who prepared the plat and
the date thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The legal description of the property subdivided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The boundary of the plat, based on accurate traverse, with angular
and linear dimensions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The location of all permanent monuments. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â All other measurements, dimensions, date and certificates required
by 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/1. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962; amd. 2009
Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â On any such plat showing a tract or tracts dedicated for park,
playground or similar public use, if such tract or tracts are not located
within the corporate limits of the city, the certificate of dedication shall
provide that the future official act of annexation of such tract or tracts to
the city shall constitute a transfer of the title to such tract or tracts to
the city for such public use.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Supporting Documents: The following supporting documents and data, in
triplicate, shall be submitted to the plan commission with the final plat:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Grading plan and profiles showing the existing centerline elevations
of all streets and alleys in the subdivision and the centerline elevations of
pavements to be constructed. Elevations shall be referred to some permanent
bench mark. Profiles shall be drawn to a horizontal scale of fifty feet to one
inch (50'= 1").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A detailed statement by the subdivider setting forth the nature,
kind, character and extent of all the improvements that will be constructed in
the subdivision, together with complete plans, profiles and specifications
clearly describing the same, with an agreement to construct the same in
accordance therewith, at his own expense, within the time limit fixed by the
plan commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A statement by a competent engineer giving an estimate of the total
cost of the construction or installation of all such improvements, including
the cost of engineering and inspections.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A certificate by the city engineer certifying that the improvements
described in the subdivider's statement and as shown by the plans, profiles and
specifications, meet the minimum requirements of this title, and that the
estimate of cost of construction and installation, in his opinion, is
substantially correct.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A duly executed completion bond by the subdivider, with corporate
surety, to be approved by the city council and filed with the city clerk, in an
amount equal to the estimate of the costs of construction of all said
improvements, certified by the city attorney, as good, valid and enforceable by
the city, securing the satisfactory completion of all said improvements in
accordance with the description, plans, profiles and specifications submitted
by the subdivider and approved by the plan commission.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Plan Commission Approval:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When the plan commission has approved the final plat, the following
shall be written or stamped upon such plat and the two (2) prints or copies
thereof:
Approved by the Plan Commission of the City of Highwood, this Â Â Â Â Â  day of
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  A.D. Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Chair
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â After such approval, the plan commission shall then transmit the
approved final plat and one copy or print thereof to the city council, together
with a letter of transmittal calling the council's attention to all variances
(if any) approved by the plan commission and setting forth its reasons for
approving such variances, and together with the originals and one copy of all
supporting documents presented to the plan commission. One approved print or
copy of the final plat and one copy of all supporting documents submitted
therewith shall remain on file with the plan commission.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â City Council Approval: When and if the city council is satisfied with
the final plat and with all improvements, conditions and documents pertaining
to the subdivision, the council shall, by resolution, approve the plat and
authorize and direct the mayor and clerk to sign the plat for and in the name
of the city and attach thereto the corporate seal.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Recording Final Plat: The city clerk shall retain the final plat so
approved, and upon payment by the subdivider to the clerk of the estimated cost
of recording, he shall record the plat in the office of the county recorder.
The supporting documents transmitted with the final plat to the city council
shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. The final plat, after
recording, shall remain on file in the office of the city clerk. The print or
copy of the final plat, with copy of the approval thereof by the city council,
and one copy of all supporting documents, shall be delivered to the subdivider.
(Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Minimum Standards
12-3-2: Design Standards
12-3-3: Required Improvements
12-3-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
The requirements of this chapter are hereby adopted as the minimum standards of
design of a subdivision and of improvements required to be constructed or
installed therein. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-3-2: DESIGN STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Streets:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Public Streets; General Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A public street or streets shall be provided to afford convenient
access to all property within the subdivision. No private street or
thoroughfare shall be permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The proposed street system shall extend existing adjoining
streets unless the extension thereof would not be practical.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Where, in the opinion of the plan commission, it is desirable to
provide for street access to adjoining property, the proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundary of such property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Grades: Grades of major streets shall not exceed seven percent (7%).
Grades of other streets shall not exceed ten percent (10%). For new streets,
the grades shall be fixed by ordinance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Curves In Streets: Curves in streets shall be permitted, provided no
curve shall be greater than that approved by traffic engineers as reasonably
safe for traffic at the particular location of the curve.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall not be permitted if the same can be
reasonably avoided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Street Names: Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment or
continuation of existing streets already named shall bear the name of such
existing streets. In no case shall the name for the proposed streets duplicate
existing street names, irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue,
road, boulevard, drive, place or court, or an abbreviation thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Alleys: Alleys shall be provided at the rear of all lots or tracts
intended for business, commercial or industrial use, and multiple-family
building use, but shall not be provided in residential blocks except where the
subdivider produces evidence satisfactory to the plan commission of the need
for alleys.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Street And Alley Widths:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The minimum width of right of way of a street, alley or
thoroughfare, measured between the lines of property abutting upon the right of
way, shall not be less than the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Major streets, being those to be used primarily for fast or heavy
traffic, and shown on the major thoroughfare plan, and streets through business
areas: Eighty (80) to one hundred feet (100') as required.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Residential streets: Sixty six feet (66').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Cul-de-sacs, which are permanent dead end streets, with permanent
turnaround having an inside diameter of not less than fifty feet (50'): Fifty
feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Alleys to serve business areas: Twenty four feet (24').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Alleys to serve residential blocks: Twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the case of the extension of an existing adjoining right of way
having a width less than the minimum requirement, the plan commission may
approve the extension thereof at the same width.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The entire right of way shall be provided where any part of the
subdivision is on both sides of the right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing
right of way, which is less than the required width, the subdivider shall
dedicate additional right of way to meet the requirement, but not exceeding
one-half (1/2) of the total required width.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â In cases where topography or other conditions make the dedication of
a street or part thereof of the required minimum width impractical, the plan
commission may modify the requirements of this subsection.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Blocks:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Blocks shall not be less than four hundred feet (400') nor more than
eight hundred feet (800') in length, except as the plan commission considers
necessary to secure efficient use of land or desired features of the street
pattern.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In blocks six hundred feet (600') or more in length, the plan
commission may require a public crosswalk for pedestrian travel, of not less
than five feet (5') in width, to extend entirely across the block at the
location deemed necessary.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two (2) tiers of lots, except
where fronting on major streets or prevented by topographical conditions or
size of the property, in which case, the plan commission will approve a single
tier of lots.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Lots:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial curved street lines.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Residential lots served by a public sewerage system and public water
supply system, shall not be less than fifty feet (50') wide at the building
setback line, nor less than seven thousand two hundred sixty (7,260) square
feet in area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The size of lots or tracts laid out and intended for business use
shall be adequate to provide for off street service and parking facilities
required by the type of use and development contemplated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The size and width of lots shall, in no case, be less than the
minimum requirements of the city zoning ordinance.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Building Setback Lines: The minimum depth of building setback lines
from the street need not be greater than the requirements fixed by the city
zoning ordinance; except, that on corner lots in a residence block, there shall
be a building setback line of at least fifteen feet (15') from the street line
on the side street.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Easements: Where no alleys are provided, there shall be dedicated
easements of not less than six feet (6') in width for poles, wires, conduits,
storm and sanitary sewer, gas, water or other utility pipes or lines, along the
rear of each lot and along the side lot lines where necessary. The easements
shall be so laid out that a proper continuity may be had for such utilities
from lot to lot and from block to block. No buildings shall be constructed upon
the easements.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Natural Features: In all subdivisions, due regard shall be given to the
preservation of natural features such as large trees, watercourses, historical
and similar community assets, which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
value to the property. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
12-3-3: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Storm Drains: An adequate system of stormwater drainage shall be
constructed and installed, consisting of pipes, tiles, manholes, inlets and
other necessary facilities, that will adequately drain the subdivision and
protect roadway pavements, and will prevent the accumulation of stormwater at
any place under normal conditions. Open ditches shall be avoided if possible.
Such drainage system shall be subject to approval by the city engineer.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Sanitary Sewers: When located within the service area of a public
sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewer mains shall be constructed throughout
the entire subdivision in such manner as to serve adequately all lots and
tracts with connection to such public system.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Water Supply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When located within the service area of a public water supply
system, water mains not less than six inches (6") in diameter shall be
constructed throughout the entire subdivision in such manner as to serve
adequately all lots and tracts with connection to such public system, together
with shutoff valves and fire hydrants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the entire water system
at intervals of not exceeding four hundred feet (400'). All fire hydrants shall
have a seven inch (7") barrel and shall be provided with two (2) 21/2-inch hose
connections and one steamer connection.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â House Services:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â House services shall be constructed to connect with the utility
service mains constructed within any street or thoroughfare to serve each
adjoining lot, tract or building site. Such house services shall extend from
the main to a point at least eight feet (8') beyond the outside curb lines of
the proposed roadway pavement in the street, and at least one foot (1') beyond
the outside lines of the proposed alley pavement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All such house services connected with utility mains constructed
within any street or thoroughfare shall be located at the approximate
centerline of each lot, and no deviation shall be made from this requirement
except upon prior approval by the city engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Upon completion of the construction in place of all such house
service connections with utility mains, an accurate map or maps showing the
exact location of all such mains, together with manholes, shutoff valves and
other similar facilities being a part thereof, by distances in feet from street
lines, and of all such house service connections in distances in feet from the
side lot lines, approved by the city engineer, shall be filed in the office of
the city clerk.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Street Pavement:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All streets within the subdivision shall be improved with a durable
hard surface roadway. The pavement shall be equal to or superior to a pavement
consisting of a base course of crushed stone or gravel of a total thickness of
not less than seven inches (7") when thoroughly compacted. The materials used
and the method of construction shall be in compliance with the specifications
approved by the state division of highways for the type of pavement designated
as class A-3 in said specifications, and shall be sufficient, in the opinion of
the city engineer, to withstand the traffic that the roadways will presumably
be subjected to.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The minimum width of the paved roadway, back to back of curb, shall
be as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â On residential streets: Not less than twenty two feet (22').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â On major streets: Not less than thirty feet (30').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â On streets through business areas: Not less than fifty feet
(50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Before any paving work is commenced, all street grading shall be
properly completed as shown on a grading plan submitted with the final plat of
the subdivision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â After grading of the streets is completed and approved, and before
the base course of the roadway pavement is laid, all of the underground work,
such as sewer, water and gas mains, house service connections therewith, and
any underground conduits for electric and telephone lines, shall be completely
installed in place and approved.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The surface course of the roadway pavement shall not be laid until
the backfilling of all trenches dug for the installation of the aforementioned
utility services have completely settled or compacted to the satisfaction of
the city engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Before the surface course of the roadway pavement is laid, all
depressions in the base course shall be properly filled and brought to the
required grade so as to create a level surface.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Alley Pavement: All alleys shall be improved with a roadway consisting
of not less than five inches (5"), when thoroughly compacted, of crushed stone
or gravel, of the following widths:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Through residence blocks: Not less than twelve feet (12').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Through business areas: Not less than sixteen feet (16').
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Curb And Gutter: A suitable curb and gutter shall be constructed along
the outside lines of all street pavements. The type of curb and gutter shall be
subject to the approval of the city council and city engineer.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Sidewalks: If the property subdivided is located within the corporate
limits of the city, or immediately adjacent thereto, sidewalks may be required
by the plan commission if, in its opinion, sidewalks are essential or advisable
by reason of existing sidewalks on adjoining streets. (Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Street Signs: An appropriate street sign shall be erected at each
street intersection within the subdivision. The type of sign and the location
thereof shall be subject to the approval and direction of the city manager.
(Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962; amd. 2009 Code)
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Trees: If any trees are proposed to be planted on any part of the
subdivision devoted to public use, the species of trees and the location
thereof shall be subject to the approval and direction of the city.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Inspection: All public improvements to be made as provided by this
title shall be inspected during the course of construction by the city engineer
or other competent person appointed by the city council. The compensation for
such inspection and other costs incurred in connection with such inspection
shall be paid by the subdivider to the city. The final completion of all such
improvements shall be subject to the approval thereof by the city engineer.
(Ord. 62-O-18, 12-7-1962)
