VILLAGE CODE
of
HODGKINS
ILLINOIS
2016
Code current through:
Ord. 22-08, passed 10-10-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Hodgkins, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 22-08, passed October 10, 2022. Ordinances of the
Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 16-15
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE HODGKINS, IL VILLAGE CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Hodgkins, Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1:
From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the Village code of the
Village of Hodgkins, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the
village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code
and law of the village as enacted by the president and board of trustees.
   Section 2:
There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the loose-leaf
type of binding together with the continuous supplement service, provided by
Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and
permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the
official village code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in
the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the village clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3:
All ordinances of a general nature included in this official village code shall
be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the fact that
some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing body shall
not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said official village code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the village code.
Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the official village code.
   Section 4:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change or amend by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or to insert or
delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be misrepresented
thereby.
   Section 5:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are, to the extent
of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6:
This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded and shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and publication
in pamphlet form as provided by law.
ADOPTED this 10th day of October, 2016
      AYES:    NAYS:
      ABSENT:    ABSTAIN:
APPROVED by me the same day and date written above.
            
            President
ATTEST:
      
   Village Clerk
Published by me on 10th day of October, 2016
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
HODGKINS VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Copies Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village president and board of trustees, this code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code
of Hodgkins. This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HODGKINS
VILLAGE CODE and it is hereby published by authority of the village president
and board of trustees. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal document. (1985 Code § 1-1-1)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1985 Code § 1-1-2)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement
page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy
of this code. (1985 Code § 1-1-3)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
village president and board of trustees. The village clerk shall see that the
replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in
the office of the clerk. Any person having in his custody an official copy of
this code shall make every effort to maintain his code in an up to date and
efficient manner. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the
office of the village clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
village and shall be returned to the office of the clerk when directed so to do
by order of the village president and board of trustees. (1985 Code § 1-1-4)
1-1-5: COPIES OF CODE:
   A.   Official Copies: Two (2) of the copies of this code shall be maintained
so that amendments thereto and all general ordinances hereafter passed will be
posted and inserted in their proper place within this code, so that the said
two (2) copies show all general ordinances passed to date and ready reference
may be had thereto. One of said copies shall be maintained by the village clerk
and the second by the village attorney. If any doubt arises as to whether a new
ordinance is a general ordinance, the village clerk shall be guided by the
advice of the village attorney.
   B.   Distribution Of Copies: All of the printed copies of this code
belonging to the village shall be deposited with the village clerk. He shall
deliver one copy thereof to each member of the board of trustees, two (2)
copies to the Hodgkins Library, and copies to such other persons as the board
of trustees may direct.
   C.   Presentation Of Copies: The board of trustees has the power to extend
to or reciprocate courtesies of other municipalities by presenting them with a
copy of this code, bound at the expense of the village, as may seem suitable,
and the board shall also have the power to present two (2) copies of this code
to the Illinois municipal league. (1985 Code § 1-1-5)
   D.   Purchase Of Copy: Any person other than the above named individuals
wishing to obtain a copy of this code shall pay to the village a purchase price
of fifty dollars ($50.00) per copy. (1985 Code § 1-1-5; amd. Ord. 91-2, 2-11-
1991)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in this chapter), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances;
ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and
other ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the village; and all special
ordinances. (1985 Code § 1-2-1)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practical.
If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed
as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as
waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (1985 Code § 1-2-3)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code
or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or
any part thereof. The village president and board of trustees hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1985 Code § 1-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Hodgkins".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
   BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the board of trustees of the village.
   CODE: The village code of Hodgkins, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
   COUNTY: The county of Cook, state of Illinois.
   DATUM: All elevations shall be referred to the city of Chicago datum.
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the village shall begin on January 1 of each
year and end on December 31 of that year.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
   MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year is imposed.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right of interest
therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
   STATE: The state of Illinois.
   STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares, public
places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   VILLAGE: The village of Hodgkins, county of Cook, state of Illinois.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The president of the village may also be referred to as
"mayor" of the village.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or
things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
   WORKWEEK: Any number of days within a seven (7) day period wherein the
employee has worked forty (40) or more hours in the case of a full time
employee and any number of lesser hours as may be designated by the board of
trustees for part time employees.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, electronic or digital, but when the written signature of any
person is required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by
law, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is
unable to write, by his proper mark. (1985 Code § 1-3-2; amd. Ord. 95-9, 4-10-
1995; 2016 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1985
Code § 1-3-3; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment:
         a.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this code, any person
found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of this code
shall be fined in a minimum amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such
fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day
that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
         b.   Whenever in this code a minimum but not maximum fine or penalty
is imposed, the court may, in its discretion, fine the offender any sum
exceeding the minimum fine or penalty so fixed but not exceeding seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). (1985 Code § 1-4-1; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Responsibility Of Corporations, Principals Or Employers; Joint
Liability:
         a.   A corporation, firm or person may be prosecuted for the
commission of an offense performed by any officer, agent or employee where the
offense is committed while said person is acting within the scope of his
office, employment or agency, or the commission of said offense is authorized,
requested, commanded, performed, permitted, allowed or by neglect of said
corporation, firm or person. An officer or any other person or agent who has a
position of comparable authority for the formulation of policy or the
supervision of subordinate employees in a managerial capacity is legally
accountable for any offense committed in the name of or in behalf of the
corporation, firm or person, to the same extent as if it were performed in his
own name and behalf and may be prosecuted for violations of the code provisions
enumerated herein. Partnerships and assumed name entities may be prosecuted as
such principal or employer in its partnership name, in the name of any partner,
or in the assumed name.
         b.   Prosecutions for violations of provisions enumerated herein may
be jointly, severally or in the alternative against any of the above named
persons and the officer, agent or employee. Persons jointly liable for any
violations may be prosecuted under one complaint.
      3.   Cumulative Remedies: The remedies or penalties enumerated herein are
cumulative, and the village may prosecute in the alternative and, in the case
of a nuisance, subject the person committing said nuisance to an immediate
arrest without the notice to abate or other procedure and may, in addition,
proceed for any other violation of any other provision contained herein or to
enforce its remedy under any section of this code, the federal and state
statutes, or the common law. The cost of said abatement shall be charged to the
person committing the nuisance. (1985 Code § 1-4-4)
      4.   Education Program:
         a.   A penalty imposed for violation of any provision of this code may
include or consist of a requirement that the defendant complete an education
program; except, that a holder of a valid commercial driver's license who
commits a vehicle weight or size restriction violation shall not be required to
complete an education program under this subsection.
         b.   A low income individual required to complete an education program
under subsection A2a of this section who provides proof of eligibility for the
federal earned income tax credit under section 32 of the internal revenue code
or the Illinois earned income tax credit under 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
212 shall not be required to pay any fee for participating in a required
education program.
      5.   Additional Remedies: The appropriate authorities of the village may
take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions
of this code including, without limitation, an action at law or in equity to
compel compliance with its terms.
      6.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this subsection,
to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      7.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The village attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the
village with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the
village attorney under this subsection shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt. (2016 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any
section of this code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or
where any action which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to
be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed
or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Amended Provisions: In case of an amendment to any section of this code
containing provisions for which a penalty is provided in another section, the
penalty so provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the
section so amended, whether reenacted in the amendatory ordinance or not,
unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
   D.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1985 Code § 1-4-2)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village president and board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on
such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (1985 Code § 1-4-3)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Qualifications
1-5-2: Bond; Compensation
1-5-3: Powers And Duties
1-5-4: Absence From Office
1-5-1: ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS:
There shall be elected at the regular annual village election for the year
1979, and every four (4) years thereafter, a president of the village, who
shall hold his office for four (4) years and until his successor is elected and
qualified. He shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector and
shall have resided within the corporate limits of the village at least one year
next preceding the election at which he is a candidate. (1985 Code § 1-5-1)
1-5-2: BOND; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Bond: The village president shall, before he enters upon the duties of
his office, execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the board of trustees,
conditioned as prescribed by law. (1985 Code § 1-5-2)
   B.   Compensation:
      1.   The village president shall devote such time to the duties of his
office as the faithful discharge thereof may require, and shall receive as
compensation therefor an annual salary of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00),
payable in equal monthly installments. (1985 Code § 1-5-2; amd. Ord. 87-1, 2-2-
1987; Ord. 98-23, 11-12-1998; Ord. 02-06, 9-27-2002; Ord. 14-07, 6-9-2014, eff.
6-9-2014)
      2.   Effective May 1, 2015, the village president shall not receive any
additional compensation from the village for any other duties whether related
to or in addition to his duties as village president. (Ord. 14-07, 6-9-2014,
eff. 6-9-2014)
1-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Executive Duties:
      1.   The president of the board of trustees shall perform the duties and
exercise the powers conferred upon the mayor of a city.
      2.   The president of the board of trustees may exercise the same veto
powers and with like effect as the mayor of a city; and the board of trustees
may pass ordinances over such veto in like manner as a city council. (1985 Code
§ 1-5-3)
   B.   Appointments And Removals:
      1.   Appointments: The village president, with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees, shall appoint all officers of the village whose
appointments are not otherwise provided for by statute; and whenever a vacancy
shall occur in any office which by statute or ordinance the president is
authorized to fill, he shall, at the regular meeting of the board of trustees
next occurring, communicate to said board the name of his appointee to such
office and, pending the approval or rejection by the board as to such
appointment, he may designate some suitable person to discharge the duties of
said office. (1985 Code § 1-5-3; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Removals: Any appointed member of any board or commission who fails
to attend more than two (2) regularly scheduled meetings within a calendar year
without presenting a reasonable excuse to the village president will be removed
from said office as soon as practicable. Nothing contained herein shall in any
way inhibit the power of the president to remove any appointee of any board or
commission at the expiration of his or her term as provided by law. (Ord. 89-
16, 10-9-1989)
   C.   Supervisory Duties: The president shall supervise the conduct of all
appointed officers and employees and see that they faithfully and efficiently
discharge the duties of their respective offices; he shall inquire into all
reasonable complaints made against them and cause all their neglects or
violations of duties to be promptly corrected; and he shall, from time to time,
give the board of trustees such information relative to the affairs of the
village as he may deem proper and recommend to their consideration any measure
he may deem expedient, tending to the well being, security and improvement of
the village.
   D.   Signature; Revoke Licenses: The president shall sign all commissions,
licenses, permits and warrants granted, issued or ordered by the board of
trustees or authorized by the ordinances of the village, and may revoke any
such licenses for the causes hereinafter provided.
   E.   Release Prisoners: The president may, for good and sufficient reasons,
release any person imprisoned for violation of any village ordinance, and he
shall cause a proper record thereof to be made, and shall report such release,
with the cause therefor, to the board of trustees at its first session
thereafter.
   F.   Litigation Powers:
      1.   The president shall sign, and is hereby authorized to sign on behalf
of the village, all instruments necessary to the prompt prosecution or defense
of any or all actions brought by or against the village, including bonds for
injunction.
      2.   Upon the receipt of any notice, summons or subpoena, the president
shall contact the village attorney who shall immediately represent the village.
The president is authorized to cause litigation to be instituted on behalf of
the village in all cases where he shall deem it in the best interest of the
village to proceed to do so and shall contact the village attorney for advice.
The village attorney shall represent the village in all such legal matters.
(1985 Code § 1-5-3)
1-5-4: ABSENCE FROM OFFICE:
   A.   President Pro Tempore: During a temporary absence of the president from
the village or if he is unable to act, the board of trustees shall elect one of
its members to act as president pro tempore during such absence or disability
who shall possess the powers of the president. Upon the president's return to
the village or recovery from the disability, the said president pro tempore
shall cease to act.
   B.   Chair Of Meetings: If the president shall be temporarily absent from a
meeting but not absent from the village or disabled, the board may appoint one
of its own members to act as chair for the meeting who shall only act for the
purpose of conducting the meeting. He shall be called "chair of the meeting".
(1985 Code § 1-5-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Emergency Interim Successors:
      1.   Designated; Authority:
         a.   In the event that the village president is unavailable, the
powers of office shall be discharged by his designated emergency interim
successors in the following order: (Ord. 05-07, 2-14-2005; amd. 2016 Code)
   Senior trustee;
   Next senior trustee; and
   Next senior trustee.
         b.   The emergency interim successor shall exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of the office of village president until such time as a
vacancy which may exist shall be filled in accordance with the constitution or
statutes, or until the officer, or his deputy or a preceding emergency interim
successor, again becomes available to exercise the power and discharge the
duties of his office.
      2.   Formalities Of Taking Office: At the time of their designation,
emergency interim successors shall take such oath as may be required for them
to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office to which they may
succeed. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person, as a
prerequisite to the exercise of the powers of discharge of the duties of an
office to which he succeeds, shall be required to comply with any other
provision of law relative to taking office.
      3.   Authority During Disasters: Officials authorized to act as village
president pursuant to this subsection C and emergency interim successors are
empowered to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of village president
as herein authorized during a disaster within the village.
      4.   Removal Of Designees: Until such time as the persons designated as
emergency interim successors are authorized to exercise the powers and
discharge the duties of the office of president in accordance with this
subsection C, such persons shall serve in their designated capacities at the
pleasure of the village and may be removed or replaced by the village at any
time, with or without cause. (Ord. 05-07, 2-14-2005)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Qualifications; Functions
1-6-2: Compensation
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: President Of Board; Deciding Vote; Vetoes
1-6-5: Quorum
1-6-6: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-1: ELECTION; QUALIFICATIONS; FUNCTIONS:
The legislative and Governing Body of the Village shall consist of the
President of the Village and six (6) Trustees who shall possess the
qualifications for office, be elected by the legal voters of the Village, take
the oath of office, have the powers and perform the duties provided by the
Illinois Statutes. (1985 Code § 1-6-1)
1-6-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Each member of the Board of Trustees shall receive compensation in the
sum of twenty six thousand four hundred dollars ($26,400.00) annually. (1985
Code § 1-6-2; amd. Ord. 87-1, 2-2-1987; Ord. 14-07, 6-9-2014, eff. 6-9-2014)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: Regular meetings of the President and Board of
Trustees shall be held on the second Monday of each month at seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. at the Village Hall. In case such meeting time should fall on a legal
holiday, then such meeting shall be held the following Monday after such legal
holiday, or at such other time fixed by the Board. (1985 Code § 1-6-3)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held at any time on call of
the President or any three (3) or more Trustees. Such call shall be in writing,
duly signed, and shall be presented to the Village Clerk who shall proceed
immediately to cause notice of the same to be served upon the President and
Trustees in person or by letter, and such notice shall describe in brief the
nature or object of the call. If the notice states an emergency exists, one
hour's notice shall be given after such notice is served in person; otherwise,
forty eight (48) hours' notice from the time of the mailing shall be given. In
case of an extreme emergency or disaster, nothing shall limit the call of a
meeting by telephone for the purpose of discussing the emergency or disaster.
All matters taken up at an emergency or disaster special meeting shall be
continued at the next regular meeting.
   C.   Public Notice: Public notice of all meetings, whether open or closed to
the public, shall be given as follows:
      1.   Public notice of any special meeting except a meeting held in the
event of a bona fide emergency, or of any rescheduled regular meeting, or of
any reconvened meeting, shall be given at least forty eight (48) hours before
such meeting, which notice shall also include the agenda for the special,
rescheduled, or reconvened meeting, but the validity of any action taken by the
Board or committee thereof which is germane to a subject on the agenda shall
not be affected by other errors or omissions in the agenda. However, this
requirement of public notice of reconvened meetings does not apply to any case
where the meeting was open to the public and: a) it is to be reconvened within
twenty four (24) hours; or b) an announcement of the time and place of the
reconvened meeting was made at the original meeting and there is no change in
the agenda. Notice of an emergency meeting shall be given as soon as
practicable, but in any event prior to the holding of such meeting, to any news
medium which has filed an annual request for notice under subsection C2 of this
section.
      2.   Public notice shall be given by posting a copy of the notice on the
bulletin board at the Village Hall. The Board, committee or commission shall
supply copies of the notice of its regular meetings, and of the notice of any
special, emergency, rescheduled or reconvened meeting, to any news medium that
has filed an annual request for such notice. Any such news medium shall also be
given the same notice of all special, emergency, rescheduled or reconvened
meetings in the same manner as is given to members of the board or committee
thereof, provided such news medium has given the said public body an address or
telephone number at which such notice may be given. (1985 Code § 1-6-3; amd.
2016 Code)
   D.   Schedule Of Meetings: In addition to the notice required by subsection
C of this section, the village clerk or chair must, at the beginning of each
calendar or fiscal year, prepare and make available a schedule of all regular
meetings for such calendar or fiscal year, listing the times and places of such
meetings.
If a change is made in regular meeting dates, at least ten (10) days' notice of
such change shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation. Notice of such change shall also be posted at the village hall,
and shall be supplied to those news media which have filed an annual request
for notice as provided in subsection C2 of this section.
   E.   Open And Closed Meetings: Meetings of every kind and nature shall be
open to the public, except where specifically exempted by statute. Final action
on all matters considered at a closed meeting must be made at an open meeting.
The following meetings may be closed to the public: (1985 Code § 1-6-3)
      1.   The appointment, employment, compensation, discipline, performance,
or dismissal of specific employees of the village or the village attorney,
including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged against an employee of the
village or against the village attorney to determine its validity.
      2.   Collective negotiating matters between the village and its employees
or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary schedules for one
or more classes of employees.
      3.   The selection of a person to fill a public office, as defined in the
statutes, including a vacancy in a public office, when the village is given
power to appoint under law or ordinance, or the discipline, performance or
removal of the occupant of a public office, when the village is given power to
remove the occupant under law or ordinance.
      4.   Evidence or testimony presented in open hearing, or in closed
hearing where specifically authorized by law, to a quasi- adjudicative body, as
defined in the statutes; provided, that the body prepares and makes available
for public inspection a written decision setting forth its determinative
reasoning.
      5.   The purchase or lease of real property for the use of the village,
including meetings held for the purpose of discussing whether a particular
parcel should be acquired.
      6.   The setting of a price for sale or lease of property owned by the
village.
      7.   The sale or purchase of securities, investments, or investment
contracts. This exception shall not apply to the investment of assets or income
of funds deposited into the Illinois prepaid tuition trust fund.
      8.   Security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to
respond to an actual, a threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the
safety of employees, students, staff, the public, or public property.
      9.   Litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of the
village has been filed and is pending before a court or administrative
tribunal, or when the village finds that an action is probable or imminent, in
which case, the basis for the finding shall be recorded and entered into the
minutes of the closed meeting.
      10.   The establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as provided
in the local governmental and governmental employees tort immunity act, if
otherwise the disposition of a claim or potential claim might be prejudiced, or
the review or discussion of claims, loss or risk management information,
records, data, advice or communications from or with respect to any insurer of
the village or any intergovernmental risk management association or self-
insurance pool of which the village is a member.
      11.   Conciliation of complaints of discrimination in the sale or rental
of housing, when closed meetings are authorized by the law or ordinance
prescribing fair housing practices and creating a commission or administrative
agency for their enforcement.
      12.   Informant sources, the hiring or assignment of undercover personnel
or equipment, or ongoing, prior or future criminal investigations, when
discussed by the village with criminal investigatory responsibilities.
      13.   Professional ethics or performance when considered by an advisory
body appointed to advise a licensing or regulatory agency on matters germane to
the advisory body's field of competence.
      14.   Self-evaluation, practices and procedures or professional ethics,
when meeting with a representative of a statewide association of which the
village is a member.
      15.   The classification and discussion of matters classified as
confidential or continued confidential by the state government suggestion award
board.
      16.   Discussion of minutes of meetings lawfully closed under the
statutes, whether for purposes of approval by the village of the minutes or
semiannual review of the minutes as mandated by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
120/2.06.
      17.   The operation by the village of a municipal utility or the
operation of a municipal power agency or municipal natural gas agency when the
discussion involves: a) contracts relating to the purchase, sale, or delivery
of electricity or natural gas; or b) the results or conclusions of load
forecast studies.
      18.   Correspondence and records: a) that may not be disclosed under
section 11-9 of the public aid code; or b) that pertain to appeals under
section 11-8 of the public aid code.
      19.   Meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental
audit committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the
discussion involves internal control weaknesses, identification of potential
fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards of the United States Of
America. (2016 Code)
1-6-4: PRESIDENT OF BOARD; DECIDING VOTE; VETOES:
   A.   President Of The Board; Deciding Vote: The president shall preside at
all meetings of the board of trustees and shall not vote on any ordinance,
resolution or motion except:
      1.   Where the vote of the trustees has resulted in a tie and where the
tie is created because a trustee passes, refuses or cannot vote.
      2.   Where one-half (1/2) of the trustees elected have voted even though
there is no tie vote.
      3.   Where the statute requires that he shall vote.
      4.   When a vote greater than a majority is needed by law, statute or
ordinance.
   B.   Vetoes:
      1.   The president may veto all or part of all ordinances, resolutions
and motions. If he does veto, he shall do so by writing his objections over the
face of the ordinance or resolution, or in writing on the motion, and report to
the next regular meeting of the board. Unless he does so, said motion,
resolution or ordinance shall become effective at such regular meeting date
despite the absence of his signature. If he disapproves part of the ordinance,
resolution or motion, or any sums appropriated in any ordinance, resolution or
motion making an appropriation, he may do so by writing on the face of such
resolution or ordinance, or in writing on the motion, the part or item objected
to, in which case, said part or items shall not be effective or appropriated
and the balance shall remain effective. Such part or items, however, may be
reconsidered in the same manner as reconsidering over the veto. The president
may give his approval to any resolution or motion by signing the same.
      2.   The board of trustees may, at the next regular meeting after the
time the vetoed resolution, ordinance or motion is returned to said board,
reconsider and pass over the president's veto. If two-thirds (2/3) of all the
trustees holding office of the board shall agree to pass an ordinance,
resolution, item or motion over the president's veto, it shall then become
effective. The vote on the question of reconsideration shall be recorded by
ayes and nays. In the event the board fails to act on said veto at the said
next regular meeting, the veto shall stand. (1985 Code § 1-6-4)
1-6-5: QUORUM:
A majority of the board of trustees elected shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, and may compel
the attendance of absentees under such penalties as may be prescribed by
ordinance. (1985 Code § 1-6-5)
1-6-6: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The following rules of order for conduct of village business by the president
and board of trustees are hereby adopted:
Rule 1. The president shall, if present, take the chair at the hour appointed
for the meeting of the board; if he be not present, the board of trustees shall
elect a temporary chair from among themselves who shall act in his stead. The
meeting being called to order, the roll of members shall be called, and if a
quorum be present, the presiding officer shall cause the journal of the last
preceding meeting or meetings to be read unless such reading be dispensed with
by vote of the board.
Rule 2. The president shall preserve order and decorum. He may speak to points
of order in preference to any member and shall decide points of order subject
to an appeal of the board of trustees by any two (2) members; on which appeal,
no member shall speak more than once unless by leave of the board.
Rule 3. Every question shall be distinctly stated by the president before it is
open for debate. Every motion shall be reduced to writing if the president or
any member shall so demand.
Rule 4. The president may call on any member to perform the duties of chair; no
such substitution, however, shall extend beyond the adjournment of the
particular meeting.
Rule 5. Every member, previous to speaking to any question, shall audibly
address the presiding officer as "Mr. President". Such member shall not,
however, speak further until he is recognized and named.
Rule 6. Every ordinance shall be read before the same shall be passed unless
waived by a majority of the board of trustees.
Rule 7. The passage of all ordinances, for whatever purpose, and of any
resolution or motion: a) to create any liability against the village; or b) for
the expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall require the concurrence of
a majority of all members elected to the village board, including the
president. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the passage of
the designated ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in the journal
of the village board. Likewise, the yeas and nays shall be taken upon the
passage of any other resolution or motion at the request of any trustee and
shall be recorded in the journal.
Rule 8. Every member present when a vote is taken shall vote unless excused by
the board of trustees, or unless he shall be directly interested in the matter
pending, in which case, such member shall not vote.
Rule 9. All standing committees shall consist of at least two (2) members and
shall be appointed by the president, and the person first named on the
committee shall be the chair thereof.
Rule 10. The president of the village shall be ex officio a member of all
committees. The standing committees to be appointed annually shall be as
follows: (1985 Code § 1-6-6)
Police committee.
Finance committee.
Building committee.
Public works committee.
   Water committee.
Zoning committee.
   9-1-1 committee. (1985 Code § 1-6-6; amd. 2016 Code)
Rule 11. Special committees may be appointed for the consideration of any
particular question or matter.
Rule 12. All committees to whom any matter may be referred shall report in
writing if requested by any member.
Rule 13. On the acceptance of a final report from a special committee, such
committee shall stand discharged without vote unless it be otherwise ordered.
All reports made by committees or officers of the village, all resolutions
adopted, all ordinances as presented and passed, all communications, petitions
and the like received and, generally, all papers presented to be acted on shall
be filed and carefully preserved by the village clerk.
Rule 14. All petitions or communications shall be addressed to the president
and board of trustees and shall be in writing and filed by the village clerk.
Rule 15. When a member wishes to present a communication, petition, order,
resolution or other original matter, he shall briefly state its nature before
presenting the same.
Rule 16. No person, except a member of the board, shall be permitted to address
the president or the board without the consent of the president. (1985 Code §
1-6-6)
Rule 17. The committee on public works shall have power in case of emergency to
order the repair of any street, alley, bridge, culvert, sewer or crossing, the
cost of which repair shall not exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
(1985 Code § 1-6-6; amd. 2016 Code)
Rule 18. The order of business of the board shall be as follows:
   A.   Call the roll of members.
   B.   Minutes of last meeting or meetings.
   C.   Reports of committees and officers.
   D.   New business.
Rule 19. The president shall decide all questions of order and, in all cases
not covered by these rules or where they are not applicable, the board shall be
governed by parliamentary law as laid down in "Robert's Rules Of Order
Revised", except no motions other than those mentioned in rule 20 and rule 21
are permitted.
Rule 20. When a question is before the board, no motions shall be in order but
to adjourn, lay on the table, postpone indefinitely, postpone to a certain
time, to commit, and to amend. These motions are not debatable, shall be
privileged and have precedence in the order named.
Rule 21. The following motions are permitted: motion to approve or adopt,
motion to deny, motion to reconsider, and motion to take from the table. (1985
Code § 1-6-6)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Bond; Compensation
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Deputy Clerk
1-7-1: BOND; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Bond: The village clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of
office, extend to the village a bond in the penal sum of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the board of trustees, conditioned
as provided by law. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Compensation: The compensation for the clerk shall be fixed prior to
election and shall be paid out of the general fund for work performed as clerk.
The salary for the clerk shall be thirty two thousand dollars ($32,000.00) per
year. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991; amd. Ord. 02-06, 9-27-2002; Ord. 14-07, 6-9-2014,
eff. 6-9-2014)
1-7-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village clerk shall, in addition to the duties now
imposed upon that office by statute, perform the following duties:
      1.   Maintain an office at the village hall for the transaction of
village business, which office shall be open during the usual daily business
hours.
      2.   Issue and cause to be served notices of all special and emergency
meetings required by the president or members of the board of trustees and,
when directed by said board, to the members of the different committees of the
body and to all persons whose attendance will be required before that body or
any such committee when so directed.
      3.   Attest all the licenses granted by the president and board of
trustees under the ordinances of the village.
      4.   Without delay, deliver to the officers of the village and to the
various committees, all bills, resolutions, communications and other documents
referring to such officers and committees.
      5.   Without delay, deliver to the president all ordinances or
resolutions under the clerk's charge which may require approval or other action
by the president with all papers and information on which the same were
founded.
      6.   Administer all elections.
      7.   Advertise for bids where required, and all bids shall be received by
the clerk. No bid, however, shall be opened except at a meeting of the board
unless previously authorized by the board.
      8.   Prepare an agenda of each meeting, which agenda shall conform with
the order of business set forth in section
1-6-6 of this title.
      9.   Require on all applications for permits and licenses to do business
in the village an affidavit as to the owners of the beneficial interest upon
the land in the land trust upon which the permit or license is required as
provided for in state law.
      10.   Perform such other duties as may be required by the president and
board of trustees and the ordinances of the village.
   B.   Keeper Of Seal And Records:
      1.   The clerk shall keep the corporate seal and affix the same to all
papers which require it.
      2.   The clerk shall keep all records and papers belonging to the village
and attend all meetings of the president and board of trustees and keep a full
record of proceedings in the journal.
      3.   The clerk shall prepare all warrants for the payment of money and
sign and deliver same when called for, after they have been countersigned by
the village president, taking a proper receipt therefor.
      4.   The clerk shall make proper copies of all papers duly filed in the
office and make transcripts from the journal and other records and files of the
office, certified by the clerk under the corporate seal.
All records and papers shall be kept at the village hall.
   C.   Record Ordinances And Resolutions:
      1.   All ordinances and resolutions passed by the president and board of
trustees shall be recorded by the clerk in a book kept for that purpose before
the next regular meeting after they go into effect.
      2.   If the ordinance requires publication, the clerk shall cause same to
be duly published in a newspaper or in pamphlet form as authorized by the
board. The clerk shall note at the foot of the record of each ordinance a
memorandum of the date of its passage and approval or otherwise becoming
effective, and if published, the date of the publication of such ordinance. The
original shall be filed in the clerk's office with a certificate of publication
or posting attached to the ordinance requiring publication. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-
1991)
   D.   File Tax Levy: It shall be the duty of the village clerk, on or before
the last Tuesday in December in each year, to file with the county clerk a
certified copy of the ordinance in which the total amount of appropriation for
all corporate and other purposes legally made is levied and assessed for the
current fiscal year.
   E.   Secretary Of Board Of Local Improvements: The village clerk may be the
secretary of the board of local improvements for which no additional salary
shall be received. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
1-7-3: DEPUTY CLERK:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment; Term: There is hereby created the office
of deputy clerk who shall be appointed by the village clerk then in office. The
term of the deputy clerk shall be at the pleasure of the appointing clerk and
may not exceed the term of the appointing clerk.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The deputy clerk shall have the powers and duties
set forth in state law and such other duties as the village clerk and the board
of trustees shall prescribe. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Appointive Officers Designated; Terms
1-8-2: Oath Of Office
1-8-3: Bonds
1-8-4: Failure To Qualify For Office
1-8-5: Compensation And Benefits
1-8-6: Powers And Duties
1-8-7: Records Examined; Reports Required
1-8-8: Indemnification; Legal Assistance
1-8-9: Office Hours
1-8-10: Personnel Policy Adopted
1-8-11: Employee Safety Standards Adopted
1-8-1: APPOINTIVE OFFICERS DESIGNATED; TERMS:
   A.   Officers Designated And Appointed: Among the officers of the Village to
be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, and whose offices are hereby created and established, are the
following: (1985 Code § 1-8-1; amd. 2016 Code)
Village Attorney.
Village Comptroller.
Code/Life Safety Officer.
Chief of Police.
Building Inspector.
Village Engineer.
Superintendent of Public Works and Water.
All deputies to officers. (1985 Code § 1-8-1; amd. Ord. 88-13, 8-4-1988; 2016
Code)
   B.   Suspension Or Removal: All appointees may, from time to time, be
suspended or removed from office by the President and Board of Trustees, and
all vacancies may be filled in like manner.
   C.   Terms: All such officers shall hold their appointive offices until the
first Monday of May in each year following their appointments and until their
successors shall have been appointed and qualified, except the Village
Attorney, who may be appointed for the term of the President and until his
successor has been appointed and qualified; subject, however, to removal at any
time by the President and Board of Trustees, with or without specification of
cause therefor. (1985 Code § 1-8-1)
1-8-2: OATH OF OFFICE:
All officers of the Village, whether elected or appointed, shall, before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe the
following oath or affirmation:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be), that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
                            of the Village of Hodgkins, to the best of my
ability.
Said oath or affirmation so subscribed shall be filed in the Office of the
Village Clerk. (1985 Code § 1-8-2)
1-8-3: BONDS:
   A.   The officers of the Village shall give bonds in the sums and within the
time respectively stated in this Code defining the powers and duties of the
several officers and departments of the Village, and in each case, as provided
by law. In all cases not specifically provided for, the officers of the Village
shall give such bonds and within such time as the President and Board of
Trustees may require, or as may be required by law. Should good cause exist in
the judgment and discretion of the Board of Trustees, any officer may be
required from time to time to give additional bonds in such sums and within
such time as the board may, by resolution, direct. The bond of each officer
shall be executed to the Village with a responsible surety or corporation.
(1985 Code § 1-8-3)
   B.   The bonds of all Village officers shall be subject to the approval of
the President and Board of Trustees after the form of the bond has been
approved by the Village Attorney. After the approval, as aforesaid, the Clerk
shall endorse thereon the date thereof and file the same in his office, except
the bond of the Clerk which shall be filed with the Village Comptroller. (1985
Code § 1-8-3; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-4: FAILURE TO QUALIFY FOR OFFICE:
If any person elected or appointed to any office of the Village shall fail to
qualify by taking, subscribing and filing the oath of office and making,
executing and filing his official bond as herein provided, within ten (10) days
after he is officially notified of his election or appointment, the office
shall become vacant. (1985 Code § 1-8-4)
1-8-5: COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS:
   A.   Unless otherwise specified in this Code, the salaries and pay for all
officers shall be paid monthly and the salaries and pay for all employees shall
be paid every two (2) weeks to each person entitled thereto. (1985 Code § 1-8-
5; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Effective May 1, 2015, any elected or appointed official with at least
twenty (20) years of creditable service with the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund and eligible to receive an Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund annuity
shall not and is hereby prohibited from receiving any compensation from the
Village for the performance of his/her duties or services whether related to or
in addition to his/her elected or appointed position. (Ord. 14-12, 10-13-2014,
eff. 10-13-2014)
   C.   Any employee who retires at age fifty (50) with more than twenty five
(25) years of service shall, upon reaching the age of fifty five (55), be
eligible for health insurance coverage, as provided by the Village to all
Village employees, at one hundred percent (100%) paid by the Village, based on
single or dependency coverage. (Ord. 16-02, 1-20-2016)
1-8-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: Each officer, besides the specific duties which may be
required of him by virtue of his office, shall also perform such other and
further duties, and be subject to such rules and regulations as the President
and Board of Trustees may from time to time require, or by ordinance provide
and establish.
   B.   Surrender Village Property: Any person having been an officer or
employee of the Village whose term has expired or who has resigned or been
removed from office shall, within ten (10) days after notification and request,
deliver to his successor in office all property, books and effects of every
description in his possession belonging to the Village or appertaining to his
office. (1985 Code § 1-8-6)
   C.   Fees To Comptroller: No officer, deputy to an officer, employee,
inspector or person acting as a representative of the Village shall retain any
license fee, permit fee, inspection fee, gratuity or compensation for any
service in his capacity as such, for any thing, act or service required to be
done or authorized by this Code, but all fees are to be turned over to the
Village Comptroller. (1985 Code § 1-8-6; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-7: RECORDS EXAMINED; REPORTS REQUIRED:
All books, papers, vouchers, warrants, entries, accounts and memoranda of each
and every officer and employee of the Village may be examined at any time by
the President, and the President and Board of Trustees may, by resolution, call
upon any officer to make a report in writing of any subject matter which said
Board may designate in such resolution and within such time as said resolution
may prescribe. (1985 Code § 1-8-7)
1-8-8: INDEMNIFICATION; LEGAL ASSISTANCE:
   A.   The Village shall indemnify any officer or employee, or former officer
or employee, for damages awarded against him as required by statute, and in
cases of other claims or actions for an act or omission made in good faith
occurring within the scope of his employment, the Village may indemnify him for
damage awarded or monies paid in compromise or settlement, in such amounts as
the President and Board of Trustees, in their sole discretion, shall determine.
No indemnification shall be made where there is adequate insurance, nor where
there is a finding of guilty in a criminal or quasi-criminal case and fines or
penalties are assessed, nor where there is a finding of malice or wilful
misconduct in a civil action.
   B.   The Village may, at the request of an officer or employee, or former
officer or employee, appoint counsel to appear and defend him and pay costs or
may reimburse said officer or employee for reasonable attorney fees and costs
expended by him, upon the following conditions:
      1.   If any claim or action or investigation, either civil or criminal in
nature, is instituted against an officer or employee, or former officer or
employee, of the Village where such claim or action arises out of:
         a.   An act or omission made in good faith occurring within the scope
of his employment.
         b.   An investigation by the Federal government, any state or
municipality, or agency thereof, involving the officer or employee in the
nature of his duties or actions as such officer or employee of the Village.
         c.   An investigation of any officer or employee by the Federal
government, any state or municipality, or agency thereof, by reason of his
office or employment in the Village.
         d.   An investigation of any other officer or employee by the Federal
government, any state or municipality, or agency thereof, to which such officer
or employee may be subjected to by reason of another officer's or employee's
duties or actions as such Village officer or employee.
      2.   No officer or employee shall be entitled to appointed counsel or
reimbursement when his action was done with malice or wilful misconduct or in
equal guilt with the officer or employee concerned. No officer or employee
shall have further use of appointed counsel or be reimbursed where there is a
finding of guilty against him in a criminal or quasi-criminal action or malice
or wilful misconduct in a civil action.
      3.   The appointment of counsel and payment of costs or reimbursement
shall not be a matter of right of any officer or employee, but is a matter in
the sole discretion of the President and Board of Trustees and shall cover only
those duties or actions committed within the course of employment or by the
nature of the office or employment held. Reimbursement may be in whole or any
part thereof in the discretion of the President and Board of Trustees. No
reimbursement shall be made until the investigation is completed, with further
action discontinued by the investigating agency or the court action is
terminated.
      4.   The appointment of counsel shall be made by the President, with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The President, with the consent of
the Board of Trustees, may terminate such appointment at any time. (1985 Code §
1-8-8)
1-8-9: OFFICE HOURS:
Unless otherwise provided, the offices of the respective Village officers whose
offices are located in the Village shall be open for business at the Village
Hall from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Monday through
Friday. (Ord. 94-10, 5-9-1994; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-10: PERSONNEL POLICY ADOPTED:
The Village personnel policy is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set
forth at length herein. Copies of said policy are on file in the Office of the
Village Clerk. (2016 Code)
1-8-11: EMPLOYEE SAFETY STANDARDS ADOPTED:
The Village hereby adopts as its own regulations and standards, the regulations
and standards of the United States Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and
Health Administration and the Illinois Department of Labor as are currently in
full force and effect and as they are from time to time amended. (Ord. 97-16,
5-12-1997)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Duties
1-8A-2: Compensation
1-8A-1: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village attorney shall conduct all the law business of
the village and draw such ordinances, deeds, leases and other papers as may be
required of him by the president and board of trustees or any committee
thereof. He shall attend all regular meetings of the board, unless excused, and
special meetings or committee meetings when requested by the president.
   B.   Legal Advisor: The village attorney shall give his opinion in writing
to the village board or any committee thereof or the president, when requested,
on legal questions arising under or concerning any ordinance of the village and
on questions and subjects in which the village shall be legally interested.
   C.   Records To Successor: Upon the expiration of his term of office, the
attorney shall forthwith turn over to his successor in office all dockets,
deeds, leases or other papers in his hands belonging to the village or
delivered to him by the village or any of its officers and all papers in
actions prosecuted or defended by him then pending and undetermined. (1985 Code
§ 1-8A-1)
1-8A-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   The village attorney shall be paid an annual salary which shall be
fixed in the annual appropriation ordinance for his general counsel and advice.
(1985 Code § 1-8A-2; amd. Ord. 99-12, 9-13-1999)
   B.   For drawing up of a general bond ordinance, the village attorney shall
receive two percent (2%) of the first one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) and one percent (1%) of any amount over one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) of the total amount of the bond issue, and for the
drawing up of revenue bond ordinances, transcripts, etc., he shall receive
three percent (3%) of the total amount of the bond issue, unless the board,
with him, should contract otherwise. If industrial revenue bonds are issued, he
shall receive the sum of one percent (1%) of the total amount of bonds issued
but not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). If alternative revenue
bonds are issued, he shall receive a fee of three percent (3%) of the total
amount of the bond issue. (1985 Code § 1-8A-2; amd. Ord. 91-17, 6-10-1991; Ord.
03-21, 10-13-2003; 2016 Code)
   C.   For litigation, ordinances, resolutions and other services not covered
in this section, or in case of failure of a bond issue to pass by referendum,
he shall charge on a quantum meruit basis in absence of any specific agreement
with the board. (1985 Code § 1-8A-2)
   D.   In case of special assessments or special service areas, he shall
receive such compensation as shall be provided in the ordinance authorizing the
improvement, but not less than four and one-half percent (4.5%) of the
estimated total cost of the improvement. (1985 Code § 1-8A-2; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE PROSECUTOR
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Office Created; Appointment; Qualifications
1-8B-2: Duties
1-8B-3: Compensation
1-8B-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby created the office of village prosecutor who shall be appointed
by the president, with the consent of the board of trustees, as provided by
statute. The village prosecutor shall be an attorney duly licensed to practice
in the state and shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the village attorney
and report to him on all legal matters connected with his office. (1985 Code §
1-8B-1)
1-8B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village prosecutor shall prosecute all violations to the
traffic ordinances of the village 1  and the uniform act regulating traffic of
the state 2  and shall prosecute all other violations upon the written or oral
direction of the village attorney.
   B.   Reports Required: The village prosecutor shall make such reports as may
be required from time to time by the president, by the president and the board
of trustees or by the statutes of the state. (1985 Code § 1-8B-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7 of this code.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
1-8B-3: COMPENSATION:
The salary of the village prosecutor shall be as prescribed by the board of
trustees. (1985 Code § 1-8B-3)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE COMPTROLLER
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-8C-2: Bond
1-8C-3: Duties
1-8C-4: Compensation
1-8C-5: Finance Officer
1-8C-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The village comptroller shall be appointed and serve for the term of the
president and until his successor has been appointed and qualified as provided
by statute. (1985 Code § 1-8C-1; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8C-2: BOND:
The comptroller's bond shall be an amount of money that is not less than three
(3) times the latest federal census taken for any purpose, and in no event less
than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). (1985 Code § 1-8C-2; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8C-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The comptroller shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed for him by statute or ordinance. He shall receive all monies paid
into the village, either directly from the person paying it or from the hands
of such other officer as may receive it, and he shall pay out only on warrants,
vouchers or orders properly signed by the village clerk and by the president.
   B.   Deposit Of Funds: The comptroller shall deposit the village funds in
such depositories as shall be designated by the board of trustees and as is
provided by law, and he shall keep the village monies separate and distinct
from his own, and shall not intermingle his own monies therewith or make
private or personal use of the village funds.
   C.   Books And Records:
      1.   Finances: The comptroller shall keep records showing all monies
received by him, the source from which received, and the purpose for which paid
out; and he shall keep a record showing at all times the financial status of
the village. The comptroller shall keep such additional books and accounts as
may be required by the board, and shall keep them in the manner required by the
board.
      2.   Bonds, Orders, Vouchers: The comptroller shall keep a register of
all bonds or orders filed with him or paid by him and of all vouchers.
      3.   Books Of Appropriations, Expenditures And Receipts: The comptroller
shall keep a complete set of books, in a neat and methodical manner, in which,
among other things, shall be set forth the appropriations of the fiscal year,
each distinct object and branch of expenditure, and the receipts from each and
every source of revenue, so far as he can ascertain the same. Such books, and
all other papers kept in his office, shall be subject to the examination of the
president, the board or any committee thereof.
      4.   Accounts Of Funds And Debts: The comptroller shall keep a detailed
account of the village revenue and of each separate fund creating the same,
with all receipts or appropriations and charging it with all warrants drawn
thereon, and he shall charge each warrant to the fund or appropriation against
which it is drawn, to the extent authorized by an appropriation ordinance. He
shall also keep an accurate account of all debts due from or owing to the
village and shall keep a book in which he shall enter a correct list of all
bonds, notes or other obligations given by or payable to the village, with the
date thereof, the person to whom or by whom payable, the rate of interest, the
time and manner in which the principal and interest are payable and such other
particulars as may be necessary to the full understanding thereof.
      5.   Warrants And Checks: The comptroller shall return all warrants or
checks paid by him marked "paid" and shall keep a register of all such warrants
or checks which shall describe each warrant or check showing its date, amount,
number, the fund from which paid, the name of the person to whom paid and when
paid.
   D.   Reports:
      1.   At the end of every month, and more often if required by the village
board, the comptroller shall render an account under oath to the board or to
such officer as may be designated by ordinance, showing the state of the
treasury at the date of the account and the balance of monies in the treasury.
He shall accompany the account with a statement of all monies received into the
treasury and on what account, together with all warrants or checks redeemed and
paid by him. On the date he renders an account, these warrants or checks, with
all vouchers held by him, shall be delivered to the clerk and filed together
with the account in the clerk's office. (1985 Code § 1-8C-3; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The comptroller shall, on or before June 1 in each year and before
the time for making the annual budget and appropriation, submit to the
president and board a report of estimates, as nearly as may be, of monies
necessary to defray the expenses of the village during the current fiscal year.
The comptroller shall, in said report, class the different objects and branches
of expenditure, giving, as nearly as may be, the amount required for each and,
for the purposes of the above statement and report, is authorized to require
from each officer his statement of the condition and expenses of his respective
department or office with any proposed improvements and the probable expenses
thereof, all contracts made and unfinished, and the amount of any and all
unexpended appropriations of the preceding year. In such report, the
comptroller shall give such other information as may be deemed necessary to the
end that the board may fully understand the financial necessities of the
current year in order to prepare its combined annual budget and appropriation
ordinance. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Upon receipt of such account from the comptroller, the clerk shall
publish the account, at least once, in one or more newspapers published in the
village, or if no newspaper is published therein, then in one or more
newspapers having a general circulation within the village.
      4.   The comptroller shall prepare all reports and be guided by the
Illinois municipal code.
   E.   Purchase, Sale Of Securities: The comptroller is hereby authorized from
time to time, when the treasury contains funds set aside for use for particular
purposes, but which are not immediately necessary for such purposes, to apply
such funds to the purchase of interest bearing treasury bills of the United
States. Upon the sale of such bills, the money thereby redeemed shall be
credited to and placed in the fund used to purchase said bills. (1985 Code § 1-
8C-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Transfer Of Appropriations 1 : Whenever, after the first half of any
fiscal year, it shall be or appear necessary or expedient to make transfers of
appropriations or sums of money appropriated for one object or purpose to
another object or purpose, as permitted by law, the comptroller shall submit to
the village board the recommendations with respect thereto. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-
1991; amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  3-1-1B of this code.
1-8C-4: COMPENSATION:
The village comptroller shall receive compensation as prescribed annually by
the village board of trustees. (2016 Code)
1-8C-5: FINANCE OFFICER:
The comptroller shall be the finance officer and shall perform all duties of
that office which shall, from time to time, be prescribed by ordinance. (1985
Code § 1-8C-5; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Appointment; Term Of Office
1-8D-2: Duties
1-8D-3: Compensation
1-8D-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The village engineer shall be appointed by the president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees. He shall hold his position as village
engineer for such term as the president shall require, but not longer than the
term of the president. (1985 Code § 1-8E-1)
1-8D-2: DUTIES:
The village engineer shall do all the civil engineering work for the village
unless the village shall otherwise contract and shall attend the monthly
meetings and make monthly reports of the progress of his work. (1985 Code § 1-
8E-2)
1-8D-3: COMPENSATION:
Unless modified by contract, the engineer shall receive as his compensation an
amount according to the latest Illinois professional engineers' scale for work
done, and if any improvement is rejected by court or discontinued by vote of
the village board, he shall be paid for his work on a quantum meruit basis,
plus one hundred percent (100%) for his cost, profit and overhead. (1985 Code §
1-8E-3)
ARTICLE E. TAX INCREMENT FINANCE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Appointment; Compensation
1-8E-2: Duties
1-8E-3: Assistant Administrator
1-8E-1: APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
The village president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
shall appoint a tax increment finance administrator whose salary shall be fixed
by the president and the board of trustees. The tax increment finance
administrator shall be an employee of the village and shall report directly to
the village president. (Ord. 96-2, 1-8-1996)
1-8E-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The tax increment finance administrator shall be responsible
for all matters associated with the operation of the tax increment finance
district including, but not limited to, preparation and filing of all reports
in an accurate and timely manner required by the state of Illinois and its
agencies and departments. He shall oversee all matters associated with the tax
increment finance bonds which were sold to finance certain improvements to the
district. He shall perform all duties necessary and vital to the success of the
tax increment finance district and shall perform other duties as assigned by
the president and the board of trustees.
   B.   Annual Report: The tax increment finance administrator shall prepare an
annual report in writing setting forth all of the activities undertaken by the
TIF district at the end of each fiscal year and shall include in such report
revenue projections and other matters directly affecting the TIF district and
shall distribute the report to the president, with a copy to each member of the
board of trustees. (Ord. 96-2, 1-8-1996)
1-8E-3: ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR:
The village comptroller shall serve as the assistant tax increment finance
administrator. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-9-3: Gifts
1-9-4: Penalties
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given the
definitions set out in this section:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative or administrative action;
b) relating to collective bargaining; or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
   COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, means any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, or compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate, in whole or in part, for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the election code 3 .
   EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the employer, whether on a full time or part
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER: The village of Hodgkins.
   GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment; b) service credit toward pension benefits; and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization but does not include
activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action; b) relating to collective bargaining; or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or
participating in any political meeting, political rally, political
demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum questions or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer; or 2) by an employee; or
3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer; or 2) with
an employee; or 3) with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer; or 2) by an employee;
or 3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   D.   Has interest that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee; or
   E.   Is an agent of, a spouse of, or an immediate family member who is
living with a prohibited source. (Ord. 04-06, 5-10-2004; amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-9-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined in section
1-9-1 of this chapter. No officer or employee shall intentionally use any
property or resources of the employer in connection with any prohibited
political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer or employee's duties; 2) as a condition of employment; or
3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time
off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person, either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the "Federal
Standards For A Merit System Of Personnel Administration" applicable to grant
in aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 04-06, 5-10-
2004)
1-9-3: GIFTS:
   A.   Gifts Prohibited: Except as permitted by this section, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as
defined section
1-9-1 of this chapter, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
   B.   Exemptions:
      1.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not be
applicable to the following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election
code; or 2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, or
half sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of
the individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether, to the actual knowledge of the
recipient, the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purposes of this subsection. "catered" means
food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by
any means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this subsection, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Each of the exceptions listed in subsection B1 of this section is
mutually exclusive and independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee does not violate
this section if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 04-06, 5-10-2004)
1-9-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Of Section
1-9-2:
      1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-9-2 of this chapter may be punishable by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord. 04-06, 5-10-2004)
      2.   A violation of section
1-9-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
specially appointed by the employer by filing in the circuit court a sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. (Ord. 04-06, 5-10-2004;
amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Violations Of Section
1-9-3:
      1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-9-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
      2.   A violation of section
1-9-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney specially appointed by the employer.
   C.   Intentional False Reports: Any person who intentionally makes a false
report alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter to the local
enforcement authorities, the state's attorney or any other law enforcement
official may be punishable by a term of incarceration in a penal institution
other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty
four (364) days and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   Additional Enforcement: In addition to any other penalty that may be
applicable, whether criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally
violates any provision of section
1-9-2 or
1-9-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 04-06, 5-10-
2004)
CHAPTER 10
IDENTITY PROTECTION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Social Security Numbers
1-10-2: Municipal Utility Identity Theft Prevention Program
1-10-1: SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS:
   A.   Recitals Incorporated: The recitals set out in the ordinance codified
herein shall hereby be incorporated into and made a part of this section as if
fully set forth in this section.
   B.   Approval And Adoption Of Policy: In order to establish a policy and
rules for the collection, use, and communication of social security numbers in
compliance with the Illinois identity protection act, Public Act 096-0874, the
president and board of trustees hereby approve and adopt a policy with regard
to the collection, use and communication of individuals' social security
numbers in substantially the same form as attached to the ordinance codified
herein, but subject to amendment from time to time as deemed necessary to
maintain compliance with the act.
   C.   Violation; Penalties: Any person who violates subsection B of this
section (section 10 of the act) is guilty of a class B misdemeanor. For
purposes of the violation of subsection B of this section, such person is
subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first such violation
and a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine for each violation thereafter. For
purposes of criminal prosecution, such person may face any or all penalties
that the state legislature may establish from time to time. (Ord. 11-05, 6-13-
2011)
1-10-2: MUNICIPAL UTILITY IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM:
   A.   Approval And Adoption: The Hodgkins municipal utility identity theft
prevention program, attached as exhibit 1 to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein by reference, is hereby adopted and approved by the
village.
   B.   Program Administrator: The program administrator shall be the village
comptroller.
   C.   Amendments To Provisions: Changes to the program of a day to day
operational character and decisions relating to the interpretation and
implementation of the program may be made by the program administrator,
however, major changes or shifts of policy positions under the program shall be
reported to the president and village board of trustees. (Ord. 11-07, 7-11-
2011)
CHAPTER 11
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-11-1: Short Title
1-11-2: Purpose
1-11-3: Maps, Drawings And Other Materials Adopted
1-11-4: Comprehensive Plan Adopted
1-11-5: Copies Of Provisions
1-11-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ORDINANCE GUIDELINES AND PLAN FOR THE VILLAGE. (Ord. 86-20, 12-30-1986)
1-11-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to adopt a comprehensive plan for the
development of the village. It consists of guidelines for the development of
the village as a whole and a plan for a portion of the village. (Ord. 86-20,
12-30-1986)
1-11-3: MAPS, DRAWINGS AND OTHER MATERIALS ADOPTED:
Previously printed maps, drawings, and other descriptive material attached to
the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by reference and hereby
made a part of this chapter shall be identified by the following statement
marked or stamped thereon:
Adopted by reference as part of the Comprehensive Plan Ordinance passed on the
30th day of December, 1986, by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Hodgkins, Illinois, approved by Noel B. Cummings, President, attest,
Dolores Hardesty, Village Clerk.
(Ord. 86-20, 12-30-1986)
1-11-4: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED:
The following maps, drawings and other descriptive material attached to the
ordinance codified herein are hereby incorporated by reference and adopted as
part of this chapter and shall be known as the comprehensive plan or parts
thereof including:
   A.   Zoning map of the village, identified as exhibit A, and dated July 31,
1986.
   B.   Official map, dated December 30, 1986.
   C.   General plan, dated December 1986.
   D.   Redevelopment plan, dated October 1986. (Ord. 86-20, 12-30-1986)
1-11-5: COPIES OF PROVISIONS:
The village clerk shall keep in her office for inspection by interested persons
at least three (3) copies of the comprehensive plan ordinance, including such
maps and other printed material this chapter adopts by reference, and any
amendments thereof. The clerk shall also make available copies of the
comprehensive plan ordinance for purchase, at a price of ten dollars ($10.00),
either through duplication in advance of contemplated demand or upon order as
required. The copies of the comprehensive plan ordinance shall be in addition
to the original copy which the statutes require the clerk to keep as part of
the official record of enacted ordinances. (Ord. 86-20, 12-30-1986)
CHAPTER 12
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Corporate Seal
1-12-2: Ordinances
1-12-3: Elections
1-12-4: Surety Bonds
1-12-5: Archive
1-12-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   The corporate seal of the village shall be circular in nature,
consisting of two (2) circular lines with the words "Village of Hodgkins" at
the top and "Cook County, Illinois", at the bottom. In the center of the seal,
the word "Incorporated" shall be at the top and the year "1896" at the bottom.
   B.   The seal may be made of metal compression type or a rubber stamp, and
shall be used on all the village documents where it is required and all
certifications by the clerk or person having custody of the document. (1985
Code § 1-10-1)
1-12-2: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Record: All ordinances passed by the president and board of trustees
shall be written, printed or published on paper uniform in size and
substantially the size of each page of this code, with the left hand margin
thereof sufficiently wide for binding. Each ordinance will bear a number
consisting of: 1) a number starting from 1 at the beginning of each year and
progressing numerically for each ordinance, followed by a hyphen; and 2) the
two (2) digits of the current year. The original shall be filed in the office
of the village clerk who shall provide due proof of publication of all
ordinances requiring publication, and such proof or affidavit of publication
shall be attached to said ordinance.
   B.   Construction Of Terms: The construction of a word or term in any
ordinance shall be the same as the construction of words and terms given by
this code as provided in sections
 1-3-1 and
1-3-2 of this title.
   C.   Certified Copies; Fee: Certified copies of any ordinance or portion
thereof may be obtained from the village clerk. The cost of each copy,
including certification, shall be fifty cents ($0.50) per page or fraction
thereof, plus five dollars ($5.00). (1985 Code § 1-10-2)
1-12-3: ELECTIONS:
Elections for municipal offices shall be held as is provided by statute and at
the time prescribed by statute. (1985 Code § 1-10-3)
1-12-4: SURETY BONDS:
Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the village is required as a prerequisite
to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the issuance of a
license or permit or the exercise of any special privilege, the surety on such
bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do business in this
state as a surety company, in the absence of specific provision to the contrary
by ordinance. (1985 Code § 1-10-4)
1-12-5: ARCHIVE:
The village hall shall be the archive, and all records, documents and papers
not being currently used by the clerk shall be kept therein. (1985 Code § 1-10-
5)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose
1-13-2: Application Procedure
1-13-3: Application Review By The Police Chief And Notification
1-13-4: Administrative Hearing/Hearing Officer
1-13-5: Administrative Hearing
1-13-6: Health Insurance Benefits
1-13-7: Other Health Insurance Benefits
1-13-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method
of determining the eligibility of a full-time Village of Hodgkins police
officer to the benefits enumerated under the Public Safety Employee Benefits
Act ("PSEBA") through an administrative process, including if necessary, an
administrative hearing. All benefits provided employees pursuant to PSEBA must
be consistent with the PSEBA.
   B.   The administrative procedure established herein is intended to
determine eligibility to receive certain health insurance benefits from the
Village. This administrative procedure is not a contract that bestows a benefit
or entitlement on any particular individual, and may be modified by the Village
at any time without notice.
   C.   Any full-time police officer, who after November 14, 1997, suffers a
catastrophic injury in the line of duty, may apply for health insurance
benefits under the Act as set forth below. The same benefits may be extended to
the spouse and eligible dependent children of the catastrophically injured
public safety employee or police officer killed in the line of duty, provided
the conditions as established by the Act are met. (Ord. 18-06, 3-12-2018)
1-13-2: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application Required: To seek benefits under the Act, a full- time
police officer, or in the event of the death or incapacity of the police
officer, a family member of the injured or deceased police officer, must file
with the Police Chief a fully completed PSEBA application, in writing, within
thirty (30) calendar days of the granting of a line-of-duty disability pension,
or within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the adoption of this chapter
in the event that the employee has filed a pension claim prior to the date of
adoption of this chapter, whichever is later. The application must include the
name of employee, date of hire, detailed information regarding the incident,
(including date, time, place, nature of injury, any other factual circumstances
surrounding said incident giving rise to said claim), witnesses to the
incident, witnesses the applicant intends to call at the PSEBA hearing,
information and supporting documentation filed with the Pension Board by the
applicant or identified as exhibits by the Pension Board and any Pension Board
determination or ruling, documents/information supporting the PSEBA eligibility
requirements. Failure to timely file the fully completed application along with
submittal of other required information shall result in a forfeiture of the
benefits under PSEBA. Upon request, the Police Chief, or his designee, shall
furnish a Public Safety Employee Benefit Act application to the applicant.
   B.   Sworn Statement Required: The PSEBA application shall include a sworn
and notarized statement explaining how the disabling injury or death directly
resulted from: 1) a police officer's response to fresh pursuit; 2) a police
officer's response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency; 3) a
police officer's response to an unlawful act perpetrated by another; or 4) a
police officer's participation during the investigation of a criminal act.
   C.   Medical Release Required: A signed PSEBA medical release authorizing
the collection of medical information related to the incident including, but
not limited to, the disability pension proceedings, workers' compensation
records and medical records, must be submitted with the PSEBA application. The
PSEBA medical information release must specify the name, address, email and
phone information for pertinent health care provider(s) and hospital(s), along
with employee's signature and a witness signature. A review of the PSEBA
application will not occur until the PSEBA medical authorization release is
submitted.
   D.   General Information Release Required: A signed PSEBA general
information release authorizing the collection of general information related
to the incident, including, but not limited to disability pension proceedings,
workers' compensation records and medical records, must be submitted with the
application. The PSEBA general information release must specify the name and
signature of the employee along with the name and signature of a witness
authorizing the collection of information pertinent to the incident review
process. A review of the PSEBA application will not occur until the PSEBA
general information release is submitted.
   E.   Other Information: The Police Chief may require other information
necessary to make a determination as to whether an administrative hearing is
required, including, but not limited to health insurance benefits the employee
is currently receiving or is eligible to receive; or, any other health
insurance benefits the employee or family members are otherwise entitled. The
applicant has an ongoing obligation to update information provided. Failure to
do so may result in the denial of benefits. (Ord. 18-06, 3-12-2018)
1-13-3: APPLICATION REVIEW BY THE POLICE CHIEF AND NOTIFICATION:
   A.   Upon receipt of a fully completed application for PSEBA benefits timely
filed, the Police Chief shall review the application and supporting documents
to make an initial determination regarding the application for benefits. That
determination may be:
      1.   A determination to grant benefits based upon the preliminary record.
      2.   A determination to deny benefits.
      3.   The making of such other finding as is consistent with the evidence
or by agreement of the applicant and the Village.
   B.   If the Police Chief grants the benefit based on the preliminary record
and subject to any necessary authorization by the Village Board, the applicant
will be notified and required to make further contact with the Police Chief
within thirty (30) calendar days for benefit explanation and processing.
   C.   If the Police Chief denies the benefit based on the preliminary record,
the applicant will receive written notice of such denial and the applicant
shall have the right to request an administrative hearing which must be served
in writing to the Police Chief not later than thirty (30) calendar days after
being served with written notice of the denial. Upon receipt of a timely notice
from the applicant, the Police Chief shall schedule an administrative hearing
and serve the applicant with notice of the administrative hearing along with a
date for the scheduled administrative hearing.
   D.   Failure to request an administrative hearing within thirty (30)
calendar days after being served with written notice of the denial of PSEBA
benefits by the Police Chief shall result in the forfeiture of benefits under
the PSEBA.
   E.   If the applicant or Village, upon receiving written notice of the
administrative hearing date, cannot attend said date as indicated in the notice
of administrative hearing, the applicant or the Village, as the case may be,
must contact the Hearing Officer within seven (7) calendar days after being
served with notice of the administrative hearing, communicating alternative
hearing date(s) which are within close proximity of the original hearing date
indicated by the Hearing Officer. Continuances will be granted for good cause
only. Failure to appear and/or cooperate in the hearing process may result in
denial of benefits. (Ord. 18-06, 3-12-2018)
1-13-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING/HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   Power Of The Hearing Officer: The Hearing Officer shall have all of the
powers granted to him under common law relative to the conduct of an
administrative hearing including the power to:
      1.   Preside over all Village hearings involving PSEBA;
      2.   Administer oaths;
      3.   Hear testimony taken under oath and affirmation and accept evidence
that is relevant to the issue of eligibility under PSEBA;
      4.   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the production
of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      5.   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence and other
motions;
      6.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
in evidence introduced at the hearing;
      7.   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, after entertaining arguments in either oral or written format, at the
discretion of the Hearing Officer, the determination of which shall be in
writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision and order.
   B.   Appointment Of Hearing Officer: The Village President, with the consent
of the Board of Trustees, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold the
position of a Hearing Officer for any hearing that shall be scheduled by the
Village. In making said selection, the Village President shall consider all
pertinent information including, at a minimum:
      1.   The candidate's ability to competently perform the services; and
      2.   The candidate's service record and performance data made available
to the Village President on file with the Village or otherwise obtained by the
Village.
      3.   The candidate must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois for at least three (3) years prior to appointment and have
knowledge of and experience in employment and labor law, general civil
procedure, the rules of evidence, and administrative practice. (Ord. 18-06, 3-
12-2018)
1-13-5: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   An administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine
whether the applicant is eligible for benefits under PSEBA. If the applicant is
found eligible, the benefits shall be consistent with the Act.
      1.   Time And Date: Hearings shall be held on the date, time and place as
established by the Village with appropriate notice served upon the applicant.
      2.   Record: The applicant, at applicant's expense, shall ensure that all
hearings shall be attended by a certified court reporter and a transcript of
all proceedings shall be made by said certified court reporter and a copy be
provided to the Village at applicant's expense within fourteen (14) days of the
date of the PSEBA hearing.
      3.   Procedures: The Village and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at said hearing and may present witnesses, may
present testimony and documents, may cross-examine opposing witnesses, and may
request the issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant
witnesses or the production of relevant documents. Each party shall bear the
costs of its own counsel and witnesses.
      4.   Evidence: In so far as is practical, the rules of evidence as set
forth in the Illinois Code of Evidence shall apply.
      5.   Final Determination: The determination by the Hearing Officer of
whether the applicant is eligible for the benefits under the Public Safety
Employee Benefits Act 1  shall constitute a final administrative determination
for the purpose of judicial review pursuant to article III of the Illinois
Administrative Review Act 2 .
      6.   Burden Of Proof: At any administrative hearing, the applicant shall
have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant is
qualified to receive the benefits. The standard of proof in all hearings under
this chapter shall be by the preponderance of the evidence.
      7.   Administrative Records: All records pertaining to the administrative
process will be held in a separate file in the employee's name maintained by
the Village. (Ord. 18-06, 3-12-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
2 2. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
1-13-6: HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS:
   A.   If the Police Chief or Hearing Officer awards PSEBA benefits, the
Village's basic level insurance plan, as designated by the Village in the event
the Village offers more than one insurance plan will be the plan offered. The
Village's basic level insurance plan may change from time to time. If the
applicant chooses to enroll in a plan available in the Village other than the
designated basic level insurance plan, then the applicant must pay any
difference in insurance premiums between the Village's basic plan and that of
another plan on a monthly basis, due by the 15th of each month in which
coverage is effective. Failure to pay said premiums by the 15th of the month,
in which coverage is effective, may result in cancellation of the health
insurance plan.
   B.   Individuals receiving benefits under PSEBA will only be able to change
from one plan to another during the Village's open enrollment period. (Ord. 18-
06, 3-12-2018)
1-13-7: OTHER HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS:
   A.   Health insurance benefits payable from any other source will reduce the
benefits payable from the Village. Each applicant will be required to sign an
affidavit attesting to the fact that he/she is not eligible for insurance
benefits from any other source.
   B.   It is the responsibility of the benefit recipient to notify the Village
within thirty (30) days of any changes to other sources of health insurance
benefits. Receipt of benefits in violation of this provision will require
reimbursement to the Village of any benefits received. The Village reserves the
right on an annual basis to have the benefit recipient provide another
affidavit affirming whether other health insurance is available or payable to
the applicant, his/her spouse and/or his/her qualifying dependent children. The
applicant is also required to notify the Village when the applicant becomes
Medicare eligible so the Village can assist with the transition to Medicare
coverage and/or adjust health insurance benefits accordingly. (Ord. 18-06, 3-
12-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created; Powers And Duties
2-1-2: Membership; Compensation
2-1-3: Attorney For The Board
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES:
There is hereby created a board of local improvements pursuant to the Illinois
Compiled Statutes. The board shall have power to make local improvements by
special assessment or special service area and shall operate under the
procedures set forth in said Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1985 Code § 2-1-1;
amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION:
The board of local improvements shall consist of seven (7) members, the
president and six (6) trustees. The village clerk shall be secretary for the
board and shall keep its minutes which may be set forth in the official minute
book of the clerk. No members of the board of local improvements nor the
secretary shall receive compensation for their duties on the board. (1985 Code
§ 2-1-2)
2-1-3: ATTORNEY FOR THE BOARD:
The village attorney shall be the attorney for the board of local improvements
and shall receive as his compensation the amount set forth in section
 1-8A-2 of this code. (1985 Code § 2-1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created; Membership; Appointment And Term
2-2-2: Meeting Place
2-2-3: Compensation
2-2-4: Rules Adopted
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
   A.   Commission Created; Membership; Term; Restrictions: There is hereby
created, pursuant to a referendum, a civil service commission in the village.
Said commission shall consist of three (3) persons who shall be known as the
civil service commissioners of the village. A commissioner shall be appointed
in each year for a term of three (3) years and until his successor is appointed
and qualified. Not more than two (2) members of the commission shall be at any
time members of the same political party as stipulated by the election code of
the state of Illinois, nor shall any such commissioner hold any other lucrative
office of employment under the United States, state of Illinois or any
municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof. (Ord. 97-1, 1-13-1997;
amd. Ord. 06-23, 12-19-2006; 2016 Code)
   B.   Appointment And Duties Comply With Statute: The manner and form of
appointment of said commissioners shall be as provided by state law. (Ord. 97-
1, 1-13-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
2-2-2: MEETING PLACE:
The village shall furnish suitable space for the meetings and files of the
civil service commissioners. (1985 Code § 2-2-2)
2-2-3: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the civil service commission who attends a meeting shall be paid
a sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each meeting attended by said
member. (Ord. 96-3, 1-8-1996; amd. Ord. 06-23, 12-19-2006)
2-2-4: RULES ADOPTED:
The rules of the civil service commission, as amended, previously adopted by
reference by the village, are hereby adopted nunc pro tunc. (Ord. 94-23, 10-10-
1994)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY (ESDA)
SECTION:
2-3-1: Agency Established; Membership
2-3-2: Coordinator And Assistant Coordinator
2-3-3: Functions; Manual Of Rules And Regulations
2-3-4: Objective And Duties
2-3-5: Service As Mobile Support Team
2-3-6: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-3-7: Emergency Action
2-3-8: Compensation
2-3-9: Reimbursement By State
2-3-10: Purchases And Expenditures
2-3-11: Oath
2-3-12: Office
2-3-13: Appropriation
2-3-1: AGENCY ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP:
There may be created the Hodgkins emergency services and disaster agency,
hereinafter referred to as ESDA, to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate
injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by explosion of atomic or other
means from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or
from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or other natural or
technological causes, in accordance with the Illinois emergency management
agency act. The ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and such additional
members as may be selected by the coordinator. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999; amd. 2016
Code)
2-3-2: COORDINATOR AND ASSISTANT COORDINATOR:
The coordinator of the ESDA shall be appointed by the president, with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees, and shall serve until removed by
same. An assistant coordinator of ESDA shall be appointed by the president and
the board of trustees and shall serve until removed by same. The coordinator
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration, training
and operation of the ESDA subject to the direction and control of the president
as provided by statute. In the event of the absence, resignation, death or
inability to serve as the coordinator, the assistant coordinator shall be and
act as coordinator until a new appointment is made by the president and board
of trustees as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-3: FUNCTIONS; MANUAL OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as shall be
prescribed in and by the state EMA plan and program prepared by the governor,
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor
and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the
state EMA act. In addition, each ESDA member will receive a manual entitled
"Village Of Hodgkins ESDA Rules And Regulations" which shall be published by
the ESDA committee and may, from time to time, be revised and amended. Each
ESDA member shall be responsible for maintaining his or her manual and, upon
termination of membership, deliver it, along with any other ESDA property in
the member's possession, to the ESDA coordinator. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999; amd.
2016 Code)
2-3-4: OBJECTIVE AND DUTIES:
The village ESDA unit is a committed associate of the county ESDA and the state
and federal emergency management agencies. The primary objective of the village
ESDA is to serve the residents of the village and to provide emergency service
and assistance whenever called upon so to do. Duties are: (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999;
amd. 2016 Code)
   A.   To assist the village police department in any nonpolice duty as deemed
necessary by the police officer in charge. The village ESDA will not, however,
act in any manner that can be construed as a police function.
   B.   To assist the Pleasant View fire protection district in any
nonfirefighter duty when called upon so to do. ESDA volunteers may be called
upon by the Pleasant View fire protection district to assist in any emergency
situation that falls within the boundaries of its district. The village ESDA
will not perform duties that can be construed as those of a firefighter.
   C.   To provide mutual aid, as established by agreement, to other ESDA units
in any capacity deemed warranted by the ESDA unit requesting assistance.
   D.   To provide shelter, food and assistance to the residents of the village
should the need arise. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999)
2-3-5: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
All or any members of the ESDA organization may be designated as members of the
mobile support team created by the director of the state EMA as provided by
law. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
coordinator of the village ESDA organization. Any member of a mobile support
team who is a municipal employee or officer, while serving on call to duty by
the governor or the state director, shall receive the compensation and have the
powers, duties, rights and immunities incident to such employment or office.
Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the village, while so
serving, shall receive from the state the reasonable compensation as provided
by law. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The coordinator of ESDA may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the village president and by the state
director of EMA. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of Illinois of an explosion of atomic or other means from without or by means
of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake,
telecommunications failure or other natural or technological causes, it shall
be the duty of the village ESDA to cooperate fully with the state EMA and with
the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 99-
3, 3-8-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-8: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Each ESDA member who attends a scheduled meeting shall receive forty
dollars ($40.00) per meeting. The ESDA assistant coordinator who attends a
scheduled meeting shall receive seventy dollars ($70.00) per meeting. The ESDA
coordinator shall be paid an annual sum as determined by the village board of
trustees.
   B.   All ESDA members and the assistant coordinator shall receive fourteen
dollars fifty nine cents ($14.59) per hour for on duty time served for the
village.
   C.   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the village,
if called for training by the state director of EMA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such village employees or officers shall receive for
such training time compensation as may be established by the village president.
(Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The village comptroller may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the state director of EMA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving
outside the village in response to a call by the governor or state director of
EMA as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident
to ESDA activities as provided by law. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The president may, on recommendation of the village coordinator of
ESDA, authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to effectively combat any explosion of atomic or other means from
without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal actions within, or from fire,
flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or other natural or technological
causes.
   B.   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the village coordinator
of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the state EMA act; provided, that if the board of trustees meets
at such time, he shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed
by that body. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-11: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
I,                        , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support
and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter, and I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the Village of Hodgkins ESDA organization, I
will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence.
(Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999)
2-3-12: OFFICE:
The president is authorized to designate space in a village building or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the president, for the ESDA as its office.
(Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999)
2-3-13: APPROPRIATION:
The village may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner provided
by law. (Ord. 99-3, 3-8-1999)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board Created; Membership; Term Of Office
2-4-2: Powers And Duties
2-4-3: Compensation
2-4-4: Secretary
2-4-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERM OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a zoning board of appeals to serve as a board of
appeals on zoning matters as provided by statute. Said board shall consist of
seven (7) members to be appointed by the president and the board of trustees,
one of whom shall be named as chair. Neither the president nor a trustee shall
be a member of said board. The members of the zoning board of appeals shall
serve for a term of five (5) years; provided, that the terms shall be staggered
as provided by statute. (1985 Code § 2-4-1)
2-4-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the zoning board of appeals to hear and decide,
as is provided by statute, any appeal of any decision, order or interpretation
by the officer whose duty it is to enforce zoning regulations, and such other
powers and duties as may be delegated thereto by statute or ordinance or
matters referred thereto by the village board; provided, it shall have the
power to reverse any decision of such officer on a concurring vote of four (4)
members, as provided by statute. (1985 Code § 2-4-2)
   B.   The zoning board of appeals, unless other provision is made in the
zoning title, shall hear at public hearing after notice, as provided by state
law, any petition for a variation of a zoning regulation and shall make its
findings and conclusions thereon, and shall report to the president and board
of trustees.
   C.   The zoning board of appeals may recommend to the president and board of
trustees changes in any ordinance or regulation affecting zoning. (1985 Code §
2-4-2; amd. 2016 Code)
2-4-3: COMPENSATION:
Each time the chair of the zoning board of appeals attends a meeting, he or she
shall be paid the sum of one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) for each
application heard. Each member of the zoning board of appeals who attends a
meeting shall be paid a sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
application heard. However, in no case shall any member receive more than the
stated compensation for any one application, regardless of the number of
hearings attended. (Ord. 95-19, 9-11-1995; amd. Ord. 06-24, 12-19-2006)
2-4-4: SECRETARY:
A nonmember of the board or the village attorney shall act as secretary to the
zoning board of appeals and shall ensure that the applications are processed
and hearings are conducted in accordance with the law. (1985 Code § 2-4-4)
CHAPTER 5
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Commission Created; Membership; Term Of Office
2-5-2: Powers And Duties
2-5-3: Compensation
2-5-4: Secretary
2-5-1: COMMISSION CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; TERM OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a plan commission which shall consist of five (5)
members including one member to serve as chair, to be appointed by the village
president, with the approval of the board of trustees. The members shall serve
for a term of two (2) years or until a successor is appointed. (1985 Code § 2-
5-1)
2-5-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The plan commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a comprehensive
plan for the present or future development or redevelopment of the community;
   B.   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan;
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities from time to
time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
comprehensive plan;
   D.   To aid municipal officials in furthering the interpretation of the
plan; and
   E.   To exercise such other powers as may be conferred by the corporate
authorities. (1985 Code § 2-5-2)
2-5-3: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the plan commission who attends a meeting shall be paid the sum
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each meeting. However, in no case shall
any member who is also a member of the zoning board of appeals receive
duplicate fees for attending a plan commission meeting when such meeting falls
on the same day as a meeting of the zoning board of appeals. (1985 Code § 2-5-
3; amd. 2016 Code)
2-5-4: SECRETARY:
A nonmember of the commission or the village attorney shall act as secretary to
the plan commission and shall ensure that the proceedings are conducted in
accordance with the law. (1985 Code § 2-5-4)
CHAPTER 6
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Created
2-6-2: Membership, Secretary And Compensation
2-6-3: Powers
2-6-4: Attorney For The Commission
2-6-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a human relations commission pursuant to the provisions
of ordinance 93-23, adopted December 30, 1993. (Ord. 94-3, 2-14-1994)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP, SECRETARY AND COMPENSATION:
The human relations commission shall consist of the members of the village
building committee. The village clerk or such other person as may be designated
by the chair of said building committee shall be the secretary for the
commission and shall keep its minutes which may be set forth in the official
minute book of the clerk. No members of the human relations commission nor the
secretary shall receive compensation for his duties on the commission. (Ord.
94-3, 2-14-1994)
2-6-3: POWERS:
The commission shall have and exercise the power to:
   A.   Act to eliminate discriminatory housing practices. (Ord. 94-3, 2-14-
1994)
   B.   Act to assure to persons living or desiring to live in the village, or
in any particular dwelling, the opportunity to purchase, lease, or rent a
dwelling without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, physical
or mental disability, familial status, national origin, ancestry, age, order of
protection status, marital status, unfavorable discharge from military service,
sexual orientation, or pregnancy. (Ord. 94-3, 2-14-1994; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Engage in such recruitment, research, and public communication and to
create such advisory councils as may be authorized to effectuate the purposes
of the fair housing policy ("policy").
   D.   Coordinate its activities with federal and state agencies in conformity
with the policy.
   E.   Gather and provide for the exchange of information relative to the
provisions of the policy among real estate brokers and salespersons, lenders,
developers, employers, municipal officials, and community groups within and
without the village. (Ord. 94-3, 2-14-1994)
2-6-4: ATTORNEY FOR THE COMMISSION:
The village attorney shall be the attorney for the human relations commission
and shall receive as his compensation the amount set forth in section
1-8A-2 of this code. (Ord. 94-3, 2-14-1994)
TITLE 3
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Appropriations
3-1-2: Annual Tax Levy Ordinance
3-1-3: Warrants
3-1-4: Recovery Of Professional Fees
3-1-1: APPROPRIATIONS:
   A.   Annual Appropriation Ordinance: The village board shall, within the
first quarter of the fiscal year, adopt an appropriation ordinance in which
they shall appropriate such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray
all necessary expenses and liabilities, and such ordinance shall satisfy the
objects and purposes for which such appropriations are made and the amount
appropriated to each item. Said appropriation ordinance shall be published in a
newspaper published in the village, or if none is published therein, then in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village, or it may be published in
pamphlet form. Said publication shall be before the end of the third Monday of
the fiscal period. (1985 Code § 1-9-1)
   B.   Transfer Of Appropriations 1 : After six (6) months of the fiscal year
have elapsed, the board may, without limitation as to the amount and by two-
thirds (2/3) vote by resolution or ordinance, transfer from any appropriated
item its anticipated unexpended funds to any other item of appropriation
theretofore made, and the item to which said transfer is made may be increased
to the extent of the amount so transferred. No transfers shall be permitted
between funds required by law to be kept separate, and all special
appropriations shall only be made as provided by law. (1985 Code § 1-9-3)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  1-8C-3F of this code.
3-1-2: ANNUAL TAX LEVY ORDINANCE:
At the next regular meeting after the publication of the appropriation
ordinance, the village board shall pass a levy ordinance, and a certified copy
shall be filed by the village clerk with the county clerk not later than the
last Tuesday in December of the same year. (1985 Code § 1-9-2; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-3: WARRANTS:
   A.   All warrants or checks drawn upon the treasury must be signed by the
village president and countersigned by the village comptroller and must state
the particular fund to which same is chargeable, the person to whom payable and
for what purpose the same was drawn, and no money shall be otherwise paid than
upon warrants or checks so drawn. (1985 Code § 1-9-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Warrants may be used to authorize the issuance of a check, and checks
may be used as a combination of a warrant and check. (1985 Code § 1-9-4)
3-1-4: RECOVERY OF PROFESSIONAL FEES:
In the event that any party requests the village to consider, grant, approve or
accept zoning changes, special uses, variances, subdivision of real estate,
easements, building permits, occupancy permits or public improvements that
require the village to obtain professional services including, but not limited
to, engineering, planning or legal service, the party making the request shall
reimburse the village for its cost of such professional services otherwise
provided by the president and board of trustees. (1985 Code § 1-10-6; amd. 2016
Code)
CHAPTER 2
CONTRACTS AND PURCHASES
SECTION:
3-2-1: General Requirements
3-2-2: Workers' Compensation And Liability Insurances
3-2-3: Consulting Engineer Insurance Required
3-2-4: Joint Purchases
3-2-5: Equal Employment Opportunity
3-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No contract shall be made for any supplies, equipment, repair work or
personal services when the total cost exceeds twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00), or the making of any public improvement when the total cost
exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), unless such contract shall have been
authorized by the board of trustees by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) majority.
Whenever the total cost of a contract for supplies, equipment, repair work or
personal services shall not exceed, in any one case, one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), the comptroller, at the direction of the village president,
without such previous authorization, shall cause the same to be purchased upon
his written order; and further provided, that when the total cost thereof shall
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) but shall not exceed twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00), the comptroller, at the direction of the village
president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees and by a vote
of two-thirds (2/3) majority thereof, may cause the same to be purchased
without previous authorization in like manner, but the comptroller or the
appropriate department head shall first obtain in writing, whenever possible,
at least three (3) informal bids to furnish same, which bids shall be filed in
every case in the office of the clerk. All such contracts shall be let to the
lowest responsible bidder; provided, that any and all informal bids for
equipment, supplies, repair work or personal services may be rejected by the
comptroller or appropriate department head if the character or quality of the
supplies, equipment or labor does not conform to requirements or if the public
interest may otherwise be served thereby.
   B.   It is further provided, that when the total cost of a public work or
improvement is expected to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), or when
the total cost of any supplies, equipment or repair work is expected to exceed
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), the comptroller or his/her agent shall
issue a call for bids to be formally advertised. All bids submitted shall
require a bond for the faithful performance of contracts for public
improvement. All contracts for which bids are required shall be let to the
lowest responsible bidder within the judgment of the board of trustees;
provided, that any and all bids received in response to an advertisement for
equipment, supplies or repair work may be rejected by the board of trustees if
the character or quality of the supplies, equipment or labor does not conform
to requirements or if the public interest may otherwise be served thereby.
Bidding in all instances may be waived by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board
of trustees. (Ord. 05-06, 2-14-2005; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   In cases of urgently needed material or urgent repairs involving labor
and material, such repairs and material may be obtained through negotiated
contract without formal advertising with the approval of the comptroller at the
direction of the village president, when it is in the best interest of the
village and when it is impractical to convene a meeting of the board of
trustees.
   D.   Negotiated purchases without formal advertising may be approved by the
board of trustees when it is impractical to secure competition, when it is
impossible to draft adequate specifications or any other adequately detailed
description of the required property or services or when the contemplated
contract involves maintenance, repair, alteration or inspection and the exact
nature or amount of work to be done is not known. However, the comptroller or
his agent shall first obtain in writing, whenever possible, at least three (3)
informal bids to furnish same. (Ord. 05-06, 2-14-2005)
3-2-2: WORKERS' COMPENSATION AND LIABILITY INSURANCES:
   A.   Workers' Compensation And Employer Liability Insurances:
      1.   Workers' compensation: Minimum.
      2.   Employer liability:
         a.   Each accident: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         b.   Disease, policy limit: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         c.   Disease, each employee: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   Comprehensive General Liability Insurance:
      1.   General aggregate limit: Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
      2.   Products-completed operations: Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
      3.   Each occurrence limit: Two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).
The village shall be named an additional insured on the general liability
policy. The village may accept a separate owner's protective liability policy
provided all coverage, limits and endorsements are in conformity with this
section.
   C.   Commercial Automobile Liability Insurance: Commercial automobile
liability insurance shall be a combined single limit of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
   D.   Cancellation Of Insurance: The village shall be provided with thirty
(30) days' written notice of cancellation of any insurance policy or material
change in said policy. The village shall be provided with certificates of
insurance evidencing required insurance before any permit shall issue. (Ord.
05-06, 2-14-2005)
3-2-3: CONSULTING ENGINEER INSURANCE REQUIRED:
All consulting engineering firms providing structural or design services on
village public works projects shall have an errors and omissions insurance
policy in an amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per
occurrence and naming the village of Hodgkins as an additional insured. (Ord.
05-06, 2-14-2005)
3-2-4: JOINT PURCHASES:
The village hereby elects to participate in the joint purchasing program
established by the state of Illinois through the department of central
management services, joint purchasing division, and hereby authorizes its
purchasing officials to use said program. It hereby agrees to be bound by the
rules, regulations, procedures and policies established by the state of
Illinois through the department of central management services, joint
purchasing division. (1985 Code § 1-9-5-2; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-5: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "contract" means
any contract, purchase order, lease or other agreement or understanding,
written or otherwise, between the village or any agent thereof and any other
person, for the procurement of any thing or service of value, such as, for
example, any real or personal property, equipment, merchandise, goods,
materials, labor or services for or by the state, for such political
subdivision or municipal corporation; and further, any loan or grant by the
village from which such a contract, purchase order, lease or other agreement or
understanding may be financed in whole or in part.
   B.   Equal Employment Opportunity Clause: Every contract entered into shall
include the equal employment opportunity clause required by the Illinois human
rights commission. In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with any
provision of this equal employment opportunity clause, the Illinois human
rights act or the human rights commission's rules and regulations for public
contracts, the contractor may be declared nonresponsible and therefore
ineligible for future contracts or subcontracts with the village, and the
contract may be canceled or voided in whole or in part, and such other
sanctions or penalties may be imposed or remedies invoked as provided by
statute or regulation. During the performance of this contract, the contractor
agrees as follows: (1985 Code § 1-9-5-3; amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   That it will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for
employment because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin or ancestry;
and further that it will examine all job classifications to determine if
minority persons or women are underutilized and will take appropriate
affirmative action to rectify any such underutilization.
      2.   That if it hires additional employees in order to perform this
contract, or any portion thereof, it will determine the availability (in
accordance with the commission's rules and regulations for public contracts) of
minorities and women in area(s) from which it may reasonably recruit and it
will hire for each job classification for which employees are hired in such a
way that minorities and women are not underutilized.
      3.   That, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by
it or on its behalf, it will state that all applicants will be afforded an
equal opportunity without discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin or ancestry.
      4.   That it will send to each labor organization or representative of
workers with which it has or is bound by a collective bargaining or other
agreement or understanding, a notice advising such labor organization or
representative of the contractor's obligations under the Illinois fair
employment practices act and the commission's rules and regulations for public
contracts. If any such labor organization or representative fails or refuses to
cooperate with the contractor in its efforts to comply with such act and rules
and regulations, the contractor will promptly so notify the Illinois fair
employment practices commission, and the contracting agency and will recruit
employees from other sources when necessary to fulfill its obligations
thereunder.
      5.   That it will submit reports as required by the Illinois fair
employment practices commission's rules and regulations for public contracts,
furnish all relevant information as may from time to time be requested by the
commission or the contracting agency, and in all respects comply with the
Illinois fair employment practices act and the commission's rules and
regulations for public contracts.
      6.   That it will permit access to all relevant books, records, accounts
and work sites by personnel of the contracting agency and the Illinois fair
employment practices commission for purposes of investigation to ascertain
compliance with the Illinois fair employment practices act and the commission's
rules and regulations for public contracts. (1985 Code § 1-9-5-3)
      7.   That it will include verbatim or by reference the provisions of
subsections B1 through B6 of this section and this subsection in every
performance subcontract as defined in section 2.10(b) of the commission's rules
and regulations for public contracts so that such provisions will be binding
upon every such subcontractor; and that it will also include the provisions of
subsections B1, B5 and B6 of this section and this subsection in every supply
subcontract as defined in section 2.10(a) of the commission's rules and
regulations for public contracts so that such provisions will be binding upon
every such subcontractor. In the same manner as with other provisions of the
contract, the contractor will be liable for compliance with applicable
provisions of this clause by all its subcontractors; and further, it will
promptly notify the contracting agency and the Illinois fair employment
practices commission in the event any subcontractor fails or refuses to comply
therewith. In addition, no contractor will utilize any subcontractor declared
by the commission to be nonresponsible and therefore ineligible for contracts
or subcontracts with the village. (1985 Code § 1-9-5-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Clause Incorporated By Reference: In lieu of said terms being set out
in full in any contract, it shall be sufficient if said contract contains the
following phrase:
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY CLAUSE
All the provisions set forth in the Hodgkins Village Code concerning equal
employment opportunity as required by the Illinois Fair Employment Practices
Commission are herein incorporated by reference.
(1985 Code § 1-9-5-3)
CHAPTER 3
VILLAGE TAXES
ARTICLE A. MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION, SERVICE OCCUPATION AND USE TAXES
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-3A-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-3A-3: Municipal Use Tax
3-3A-4: Exclusions From Taxes
3-3A-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the village at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business or service
in the village shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, a
report to the state department of revenue required by 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes, as amended and approved, and more particularly as set forth under
section 3 of "an act in relation to a tax upon persons engaged in the business
of selling tangible personal property to purchasers for use or consumption" 1 .
(1985 Code § 3-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipt from such sales during the preceding month. (1985 Code § 3-2-1)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/3.
3-3A-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
village in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by such
servicemen, either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business or service
in the village shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, a
report to the state department of revenue required by 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes, as amended and approved, and more particularly set forth, under
section 9 of the service occupation tax act 1 . (1985 Code § 3-2-2; amd. 2016
Code)
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipt from such sales during the preceding month. (1985 Code § 3-2-2)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/9.
3-3A-3: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the provisions
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the
village any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside the
state at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of state government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%) of
the selling price of such tangible property, with selling price to have the
meaning as defined in the use tax act 1 .
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The use tax shall be collected by the Illinois
department of revenue and shall be paid before the title or certificate of
registration for the personal property is issued. (1985 Code § 3-2-3; amd. 2016
Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-3A-4: EXCLUSIONS FROM TAXES:
The exclusions set forth in section 2(d) of the retailers' occupation tax act,
sections 2(e) and 3 of the service occupation tax act, and section 3 of the use
tax act for machinery and equipment used directly and exclusively in the
manufacture of tangible personal property for resale shall not apply to the
taxes imposed by this article. (1985 Code § 3-2-4)
ARTICLE B. AMUSEMENT TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definition
3-3B-2: Tax Imposed; Amount
3-3B-3: Payment Of Tax
3-3B-4: Books And Records; Sale Or Transfer Of Amusement
3-3B-5: Exemptions From License Fee
3-3B-6: Monthly Report Required
3-3B-7: Penalties
3-3B-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this article, the word "amusement" shall include both participative
and exhibitive entertainment including, but not by way of limitation, any
motion picture. (Ord. 97-25, 11-10-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3B-2: TAX IMPOSED; AMOUNT:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons, firms or corporations
operating places of amusement within the corporate limits of the village in an
amount equal to twenty five cents ($0.25) per ticket collected in the form of
fees or charges for admission to any facility and/or the use of any facility or
equipment for the purpose of witnessing or participating in any amusement,
irrespective of whether such fees or charges are characterized as admission
fees. (Ord. 97-25, 11-10-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   A fee or charge which entitles the patrons of any amusement operated
within the corporate limits of the village to tangible personal property or
bona fide services in addition, and unrelated, to witnessing or participating
in the amusement shall not be subject to the tax provided in this article;
except, however:
      1.   Where a fee or charge is comprised of identifiable components,
packages or tiers, the tax provided in this article shall be imposed on any
such components, packages or tiers which provide solely for admission to any
facility and/or the use of any facility or equipment for the purpose of
witnessing or participating in any amusement; and (Ord. 97-25, 11-10-1997)
      2.   From and after the issuance of an allocation order, the person, firm
or corporation operating the subject place of amusement shall pay the tax
specified hereinabove, with respect to the subject fee or charge, based only
upon the portion or portions of the subject fee or charge attributable to
amusement services or facilities. (Ord. 97-25, 11-10-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   As distinguished from private clubs operated on a not for profit basis,
the persons, firms or corporations taxed hereunder shall be those operating
places of amusement as a business for profit, irrespective of whether such
amusement is offered generally to the public or requires a membership as a
precondition to participation or observation of the amusement. (Ord. 97-25, 11-
10-1997)
3-3B-3: PAYMENT OF TAX:
The tax imposed in this article shall be due and payable on the twenty fifth
day of the month following the preceding calendar month during which the gross
receipts were received. The tax shall be paid to and collected by the village
comptroller. (Ord. 97-25, 11-10-1997)
3-3B-4: BOOKS AND RECORDS; SALE OR TRANSFER OF AMUSEMENT:
   A.   Each person, firm or corporation required to pay the tax provided in
this article shall, either personally or through his or its authorized agents,
maintain complete books and records covering the operation of the amusement so
taxed, indicating therein all receipts from the operation of said business, as
herein defined. Such books and records shall be maintained on the premises
wherein the amusement is so located and shall be subject to inspection by the
village or its authorized agents at all reasonable times.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation liable for the payment of the amusement
tax provided in this article shall give the village thirty (30) days' prior
written notice of the pending sale or transfer of ownership of any such
amusement. Such person, firm or corporation shall maintain, within the
corporate limits of the village, complete books and records covering the
operation of the amusement so taxed, for a period of six (6) months after such
sale or transfer. These books and records shall be subject to a final audit by
the village or its authorized agents at all reasonable times.
   C.   Upon completion of any final audit, the books and records so maintained
may be removed from the corporate limits of the village, prior to the
expiration of the six (6) month period provided in subsection B of this
section, with the prior written approval of the village comptroller. (Ord. 97-
25, 11-10-1997)
3-3B-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE FEE:
Any person, firm or corporation liable for the payment of the amusement tax
provided in this article shall be exempt from the payment of any village
license fee required under this code, directly and specifically related to the
activities constituting the amusement tax. (Ord. 97-25, 11-10-1997)
3-3B-6: MONTHLY REPORT REQUIRED:
On or before the twenty fifth day of each month, each person, firm or
corporation liable for the payment of the tax hereunder shall file with the
village comptroller a written report in such form as the comptroller may from
time to time provide, stating the gross receipts collected during the preceding
month in the form of fees or charges as herein defined. (Ord. 97-25, 11-10-
1997)
3-3B-7: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation which shall fail or refuse to pay any required
tax or which shall fail to complete or allow the inspection of any books and
records required herein, or which shall fail to file the written report of the
gross receipts collected during the preceding month, or which shall wilfully
and knowingly maintain false books or falsely report the gross receipts taxed
hereunder, or shall otherwise violate any term of this article, shall be liable
for the penalty and fines provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code. In addition, if any violation is not corrected within ten
(10) days after written notice from the village comptroller of any violation,
the person, firm or corporation responsible for the operation of the amusement
with respect to which the violations occur shall be prohibited from operating
same for a period of thirty (30) days. For the purpose of this section, each
day during which a violation of this section shall exist shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 97-25, 11-10-1997)
ARTICLE C. UTILITIES TAXES
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Taxes Imposed; Amounts
3-3C-2: Exemptions From Taxes
3-3C-3: Taxes Are Additional
3-3C-4: Collection Of Taxes
3-3C-5: Tax Return And Remittance
3-3C-6: Credit For Overpayment
3-3C-7: Violation; Penalties
3-3C-1: TAXES IMPOSED; AMOUNTS:
   A.   Natural Gas Tax:
      1.   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling natural gas for use or
consumption within the corporate limits of the village, and not for resale, at
the rate of two percent (2%) of the gross receipts thereon. (Ord. 98-16, 8-10-
1998)
      2.   The tax provided in subsection A1 of this section shall be based on
gross receipts actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after
July 1, 1992. (Ord. 98-16, 8-10-1998; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Electricity Tax:
      1.   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges: The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser as set forth hereinbelow. The tax imposed by this subsection shall
not apply with respect to gross receipts pertaining to bills for the
distribution, supply, furnishing or sale of electricity where the use or
consumption of the electricity is subject to the tax imposed by this
subsection.
Amount Of Electricity Used Or Consumed Price Per Kilowatt Hour
Amount Of Electricity Used Or Consumed             Price Per Kilowatt Hour
For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours                 $0.343
For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours                 0.225
For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours                 0.203
For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours                0.197
For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours                0.191
For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours              0.180
For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours              0.177
For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours              0.175
For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt hours             0.172
Electricity in excess of 20,000,000 kilowatt hours 0.169
 
      2.   The tax rates set forth in subsection B1 of this section are
proportional to the rates enumerated in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2
(as modified by Public Act 90-561), and do not exceed the revenue that could
have been collected during 1997 using the rates enumerated in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561).
      3.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set
forth in subsection B1 of this section shall be effective: a) on August 1,
1998, for residential customers; and b) on the earlier of: 1) the first bill
issued on or after January 1, 2001; or 2) the date of the first bill issued
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16-104 for nonresidential
customers.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection B shall not be effective until
August 1, 1998. (Ord. 98-16, 8-10-1998)
3-3C-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAXES:
None of the taxes authorized by this article may be imposed with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the
business or privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas or
electricity, or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at
retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this article for those
transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of
the municipal retailers' occupation tax act authorized by section 8-11-1 of the
Illinois municipal code; nor shall any tax authorized by this article be
imposed upon any person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the
tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in
businesses of the same class in the village, whether privately or municipally
owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the village. (Ord.
98-16, 8-10-1998; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3C-3: TAXES ARE ADDITIONAL:
The taxes shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer of its
business. (Ord. 98-16, 8-10-1998)
3-3C-4: COLLECTION OF TAXES:
The taxes authorized by this article shall be collected from the purchaser by
the person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity or natural gas to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt
of the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity or natural gas to
the purchaser and, if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original
charge for delivering the electricity or natural gas. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to this article and any such tax collected by a person
delivering electricity or natural gas shall constitute a debt owed to the
village by such person delivering the electricity or natural gas; provided,
that the person delivering electricity shall be allowed a credit for such tax
related to deliveries of electricity, the charges for which are written off as
uncollectible; and provided further, that if such charges are thereafter
collected, the delivering supplier shall be obligated to remit such tax.
Persons delivering electricity or natural gas shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity
or natural gas. Persons delivering electricity or natural gas shall also be
authorized to add to such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of
the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity or natural gas for the
expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing
returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon request. If
the person delivering electricity or natural gas fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to
the village in the manner prescribed by the village. Persons delivering
electricity or natural gas who file returns pursuant to this section shall, at
the time of filing such return, pay the village the amount of the tax collected
pursuant to this article. (Ord. 98-16, 8-10-1998)
3-3C-5: TAX RETURN AND REMITTANCE:
   A.   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the village for the preceding month stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during the month upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other and reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   B.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amount previously billed), with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 98-16, 8-10-1998)
3-3C-6: CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this article from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. No action to
recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this article shall be
commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount. (Ord.
98-16, 8-10-1998)
3-3C-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provision of this article is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and, in
addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of the tax due.
(Ord. 98-16, 8-10-1998)
ARTICLE D. POLICE AND FIRE TAXES
SECTION:
3-3D-1: Police Pension Tax
3-3D-2: Fire Protection Tax
3-3D-1: POLICE PENSION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of police pension on all the taxable
property in the village at a rate of 0.075 percent of the value as equalized or
assessed by the department of revenue for all taxable property therein, in all
succeeding years, all in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1-3. (1985 Code § 1-9-6; amd. 2016 Code)
3-3D-2: FIRE PROTECTION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of fire protection on all the taxable
property in the village at a rate of 0.075 percent of the value as equalized or
assessed by the department of revenue for all taxable property therein, in all
succeeding years, all in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-7-1. (1985 Code § 1-9-6; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE E. SIMPLIFIED TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-3E-1: Definitions
3-3E-2: Imposition Of Tax; Exemptions
3-3E-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailer
3-3E-4: Tax Returns
3-3E-5: Sales
3-3E-6: Effective Date
3-3E-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definition of those terms defined at 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 636/5-7
(as such statute may be modified, amended or updated) are adopted by reference
as if restated in full herein. Any future amendment to that section shall be
considered to have been adopted in full by reference. "Municipality" shall
refer to the village of Hodgkins, Cook County, Illinois. (2016 Code)
3-3E-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all of the following acts or
privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
   B.   The tax imposed by this section is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (2016 Code)
3-3E-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILER:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this article shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (2016 Code)
3-3E-4: TAX RETURNS:
On or before the last day of every month, the tax imposed under this article on
telecommunications retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to section 5-50 of the
Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax act and any accompanying
rules and regulations created by the department to implement the act. (2016
Code)
3-3E-5: SALES:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this article on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale number
from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in connection
with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is nontaxable
because of being a sale for resale. (2016 Code)
3-3E-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The tax provided in this article shall take effect for all bills issued on or
after January 1, 2014, and any amounts due or payable to the village for any
tax periods ending prior to the last day of each month thereafter shall
nevertheless remain payable as if this section had not been adopted. (2016
Code)
ARTICLE F. MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-3F-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-3F-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers !2R!
3-3F-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.    A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the compassionate use of
medical cannabis pilot program act, at retail in the village at the rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of
that business.
   B.    The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-22 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 19-
09, 10-14-2019)
3-3F-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.    The tax imposed by section
3-3F-1 shall be remitted by such retailer to the Illinois department of
revenue. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as authorized by this
chapter and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be remitted
to the state department of revenue shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer
to the state of Illinois. A retailer may reimburse itself for its seller's tax
liability hereunder by separately stating that tax as an addition charge, which
charge may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with a state of
Illinois tax that a seller is required to collect.
   B.    The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Illinois
department of revenue. The state department of revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 19-09, 10-14-2019)
CHAPTER 4
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Short Title
3-4-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Notice Requirements
3-4-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
3-4-6: Application Of Tax Payments
3-4-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-4-8: Audit Procedure
3-4-9: Appeals
3-4-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
3-4-11: Installment Contracts
3-4-12: Statute Of Limitations
3-4-13: Voluntary Disclosure
3-4-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
3-4-15: Review Of Liens
3-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
3-4-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 00-16,
12-11-2000)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and the board of trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village comptroller is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the property tax code or fees collected by the village.
   NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE: The village of Hodgkins, Cook County, Illinois. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-
2000; amd. 2016 Code)
3-4-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address.
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
3-4-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made by the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
3-4-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
3-4-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be two (2) years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund
of locally imposed or administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person
who has not paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
3-4-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within thirty (30) days, approved in writing,
that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-
2000)
3-4-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      3.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
3-4-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of delinquency or notice of tax liability, then failure to
file penalty shall be assessed equal to ten percent (10%) of the total tax due
for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 00-16, 12-
11-2000)
3-4-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within fourteen (14) working days or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
3-4-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000;
amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed. (Ord.
00-16, 12-11-2000)
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000; amd. 2016 Code)
3-4-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-
2000; amd. 2016 Code)
3-4-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 00-16, 12-11-2000)
3-4-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord. 00-
16, 12-11-2000)
CHAPTER 5
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING INTERESTED PARTIES
REGISTRATION AND RULES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Recitals Incorporated
3-5-2: Creation Of Registries
3-5-3: Registration Rules Adopted; Amendments
3-5-1: RECITALS INCORPORATED:
The recitals set out in the ordinance codified herein are hereby incorporated
herein as substantive findings of the president and board of trustees. (Ord.
07-08, 6-26-2007)
3-5-2: CREATION OF REGISTRIES:
The tax increment finance administrator, or the assistant administrator, is
hereby authorized and directed to create interested parties registries pursuant
to and in accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the Illinois tax increment
allocation redevelopment act for each redevelopment project area created under
the act and not terminated by the village, whether now existing or created
after the effective date hereof. (Ord. 07-08, 6-26-2007; amd. 2016 Code)
3-5-3: REGISTRATION RULES ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
In accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the act, the village hereby adopts
the registration rules and registration form in exhibit A attached to the
ordinance codified herein and, by this reference, made a part of this chapter,
as registration rules and registration form for each interested parties
registry. The tax increment finance administrator shall have the authority to
amend such registration rules and registration form from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the act. (Ord. 07-08, 6-26-2007; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
McCOOK-HODGKINS ENTERPRISE ZONE
SECTION:
3-6-1: Zone Established
3-6-2: Purpose
3-6-3: Tax Incentives Described
3-6-4: Reimbursement Of Village Attorney Fees
3-6-5: Enterprise Zone Administrator
3-6-6: Term And Effect Of Zone
3-6-7: Overlapping Redevelopment Project Area
3-6-1: ZONE ESTABLISHED:
The McCook-Hodgkins enterprise zone is hereby established, which enterprise
zone shall include all of the territory within the boundaries of the villages
of McCook and Hodgkins. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991)
3-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the enterprise zone is to alleviate distressed economic
conditions in certain depressed areas; to encourage businesses to either locate
within the boundaries of the enterprise zone or to expand and upgrade
antiquated and/or deteriorated facilities; and to create jobs and alleviate
unemployment. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991)
3-6-3: TAX INCENTIVES DESCRIBED:
   A.   It is the policy of the village board to authorize a variety of tax
incentives, reimbursement of taxes, waivers of fees and special considerations
for assistance in the area of economic development programs which, pursuant to
state and federal law, apply to business enterprises within the zone, and
pursuant to the authority of the general purpose unit(s) of government within
the zone having jurisdiction. Said incentives are hereby created and include,
but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Property tax abatement on new improvements.
      2.   Lower property tax classification (Cook County).
      3.   Sales tax exemption on building materials to be incorporated into
real estate in the zone.
      4.   Building and construction waivers.
      5.   Grants or loan assistance, as such programs become available.
      6.   Targeting local resources and applicable federal programs.
      7.   Such other tax or other financial incentives or reimbursements as
may be authorized by law, now or in the future.
      8.   Shopsteading or homesteading as defined by the Illinois enterprise
zone act.
   B.   This section does not prohibit the general purpose unit(s) of
government, portions of which jurisdictions encompass the enterprise zone, from
extending the foregoing or other benefits for business enterprises in the
enterprise zone or throughout their territory by separate ordinance.
   C.   The village clerk shall make available information on application
procedures to any business so desiring to acquire any of the benefits
hereinabove described. The village board of trustees shall consider any and all
applications presented thereto in proper form and shall have the sole
discretion in awarding any benefit prescribed by either state, county or local
laws. (Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991)
3-6-4: REIMBURSEMENT OF VILLAGE ATTORNEY FEES:
Any entity applying for any benefit available to businesses located within the
enterprise zone shall reimburse the village for any and all reasonable expenses
incurred for necessary legal work performed by the village attorney on behalf
of the village for said entity. The village shall furnish the applicant with an
itemized statement of legal work performed by said attorney on behalf of the
entity, and the statement shall be paid promptly and directly to the village.
(Ord. 91-2, 2-11-1991)
3-6-5: ENTERPRISE ZONE ADMINISTRATOR:
The village president may appoint an enterprise zone administrator, with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees. Compensation for the enterprise
zone administrator may be set by the board of trustees. In the event that the
president shall choose to not appoint an enterprise zone administrator, the
village attorney shall perform the duties of such administrator. (Ord. 91-2, 2-
11-1991)
3-6-6: TERM AND EFFECT OF ZONE:
This zone has received an extension of its term from the Illinois department of
commerce and economic opportunity with all rights, benefits and obligations of
the Illinois enterprise zone act. The certificate provided by DCEO extends the
term until December 31, 2016. (Ord. 07-21, 12-10-2007)
3-6-7: OVERLAPPING REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA:
None of the tax abatement available under section 18-170 of the property tax
code for new improvements or the renovation or rehabilitation of existing
improvements shall be available to any applicant who is located within a
designated redevelopment project area as provided in section 5.4.1 of the
Illinois enterprise zone act. (Ord. 07-21, 12-10-2007)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Village Right To License
4-1-3: License Required
4-1-4: Application For License
4-1-5: Investigations; Inspections
4-1-6: Issuance Of License; Register Kept
4-1-7: Terms Of Licenses
4-1-8: Conditions Of License
4-1-9: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-1-10: Appeals
4-1-11: Enforcement
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the HODGKINS LICENSE CODE. (1985 Code § 3-1-1)
4-1-2: VILLAGE RIGHT TO LICENSE:
Whenever any business is licensed by this title and the grant of power to
license said business is not specifically enumerated in the Illinois municipal
code, it shall be presumed that the right to license and regulate said business
is granted under the police, health and public welfare powers given to the
village under the Illinois municipal code and such business shall be issued a
contingency license as provided herein. (1985 Code § 3-1-2; amd. Ord. 95-1, 1-
9-1995)
4-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or maintain any of the businesses hereinafter set forth
without first obtaining a license therefor. Every business license recipient
shall have an office, with an address, water and sanitary facilities except for
"mobile offices", as defined in subsection
 4-10-4A of this title, and mobile caterers and vendors. (Ord. 86-9, 6-9-1986)
4-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Unless otherwise provided in a separate ordinance or chapter of this code,
applications shall be made for a license and a fee paid 1 . Applications for
licenses under the provisions of this chapter shall be in writing, in
duplicate, on forms furnished by the village, directed to the president and
board of trustees and shall contain the name of the applicant, the nature of
the business and location thereof. The applicant shall, in addition, furnish
satisfactory evidence of good character and repute and such other information
as shall be required by the president and board of trustees. The president,
with the approval of the board of trustees, may require the applicant to post a
reasonable bond 2 . (1985 Code § 3-1-4)
 
Notes
1 1. See article A of this chapter for license fees.
2 1. See section
  1-12-4  of this code.
4-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Investigation Of Applicant: Upon the receipt of an application for a
license or permit where ordinances of the village necessitate an inspection or
investigation before the issuance of such permit or license, the village clerk
shall refer such application to the proper officer for making such
investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such receipt. The
officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or inspection shall
make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after
receiving the application or a copy thereof. The health officer shall make or
cause to be made all inspections in connection with such licenses for the
protection of health, the care and handling of food and the prevention of
nuisances and of the spread of disease; the building inspector shall make or
cause to be made any such inspections relative to the construction of buildings
or other structures; and the Pleasant View fire protection district shall make
all inspections pursuant to the agreement between said district and the
village. All other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be
made by the chief of police or by some officer designated by the president.
   B.   Inspections; Analyses:
      1.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance or statute, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with
any ordinance provision or statute or to detect violations thereof, or for
protection of health and safety or public welfare, or under the police powers,
it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the premises to
be inspected to admit thereto for the purpose of making such inspection, any
officer or employee of the village who is authorized or directed to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that admission is requested. (1985 Code § 3-
1-5)
      2.   Whenever the analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or statute or to
detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of any licensee of the village
whose business is governed by such provision to give any authorized officer or
employee of the village requesting the same sufficient samples of such material
or commodity for such analysis upon request; provided, however, if state law
shall govern the distribution of such material or commodity, jurisdiction of
such analysis shall be exclusively with the state. (1985 Code § 3-1-5; amd.
2016 Code)
      3.   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the
president may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor or any licensed
business in the village who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who
is authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the
inspection or take an adequate sample of the desired commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his duty
in making such inspection; provided, that no license shall be revoked for such
cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of
the premises, in the name of the village, stating that such inspection or
sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the
sample. (1985 Code § 3-1-5)
4-1-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; REGISTER KEPT:
Licenses herein set forth, unless otherwise specifically provided in a separate
ordinance or chapter of this code, shall be granted by the president, with the
approval of the board of trustees, and upon approval, licenses shall be issued
by the village clerk upon payment of the required fee. Licenses shall be signed
by the president and clerk and shall set forth therein the purpose and the
period for which issued. The clerk shall keep a register of all licenses
issued. (1985 Code § 3-1-6)
4-1-7: TERMS OF LICENSES:
   A.   Annual Business Licenses: All business licenses requiring annual
payments shall be issued for a period of one year, commencing on January 1 and
expiring on December 31 of each year; provided, however, that any person
complying with the foregoing and applying for a license at any time subsequent
to July 1 of each year, unless otherwise provided in this title, shall pay a
license fee equal to fifty percent (50%) of the annual license fee, which said
license shall expire on December 31 of the year in which same is issued.
   B.   Weekly Business Licenses: All business licenses payable on a weekly
basis shall be issued on the day requested and shall expire on the seventh day
thereafter, and shall be in full force and effect for only the one week after
issuance.
   C.   Daily Business Licenses: All business licenses payable on a daily basis
shall be issued for the day requested and shall be only in full force and
effect for said day as issued. (1985 Code § 3-1-7)
   D.   Contingency Business Licenses: All business licenses payable on a
contingency basis shall be issued for no more than three (3) months or such
time as the board shall enumerate a specific category for such business. Upon
such determination, the license fee designated shall apply retroactively to the
date of the issuance of the contingency license with a set off for such fee
already paid. (Ord. 95-1, 1-9-1995)
4-1-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License Nontransferable: Licenses issued under the provisions of this
chapter are not assignable.
   B.   License Posted: It shall be the duty of the person conducting a
licensed business in the village to keep his license posted in a prominent
place on the premises used for such business at all times, or where vehicles or
machines are licensed, to be displayed on said vehicles or machines. (1985 Code
§ 3-1-9)
4-1-9: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   When the conduct or operation of any business, occupation, activity or
establishment, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall constitute a nuisance in
fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, or where the holder of any license shall have refused to allow an
inspection of his premises or has refused to furnish a sample of his goods for
testing, the village president shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business and the closing of the premises until the danger no
longer exists.
   B.   Within eight (8) days after a license or permit is suspended, the
village president shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether
or not the license or permit should be revoked.
   C.   Licenses and permits issued by the village, unless otherwise provided,
may be revoked by the village president after notice and hearing as provided in
subsections D and E of this section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of provisions of this
title or other ordinances of the village relating to the license or permit, the
subject matter of the license or permit or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor where such conviction indicates his inability to operate a safe,
honest and legitimate business operation within the village.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine, penalty or
charge owed to the village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the reasonable
performance of his duties in making inspections as provided in section 4-1-5 of
this chapter.
Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and imposition of
any other penalties provided for the violation of other applicable provisions
of this title or other ordinances of the village.
   D.   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be
given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail
(return receipt requested) to the licensee or permittee at his last known
address, at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing. If the
licensee shall request a continuance in the date of the hearing, the ten (10)
day suspension shall be in effect until two (2) days after the final hearing
date.
   E.   At the hearing, the village attorney shall present the complaint and
shall represent the village. The licensee or permittee shall be permitted
counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village president shall preside and shall render the decision.
   F.   A stenographic or electrically recorded record of the hearing shall be
kept. The village shall pay the cost of attendance fees of the reporter and the
cost of the transcript, if such transcript shall be ordered by the village. The
licensee or permittee shall pay the cost of any transcript ordered by him.
   G.   Within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, but not
later than thirty (30) days after such conclusion, the village president shall
file a written decision in which he has summarized the evidence and has stated
the reasons for his decision. (1985 Code § 3-1-10)
4-1-10: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the village president in regard to the
denial of an application for a business license, as provided in this title, or
in connection with the revocation of a license or permit, or the closing of an
establishment dangerous to the public, as provided in this title, shall have
the right to appeal to the corporate authorities. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing with the clerk, within ten (10) days after notice of a denial of an
application or a revocation of a license or permit, a written statement under
oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The corporate
authorities shall thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such
appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee
or permittee in the same manner as provided in subsection
4-1-9D of this chapter. The decision of the corporate authorities on such
appeal shall be final. (1985 Code § 3-1-11)
4-1-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Whenever a person shall neglect or refuse to procure any license
required by this title, or otherwise violate the terms of this chapter, the
village president is authorized to cause appropriate legal action and
proceedings to be instituted to enforce the license requirement.
   B.   The village clerk shall take all necessary and appropriate action to
compel compliance with the regulatory provisions of this chapter. When
necessary and expedient, he may call upon the chief of police to assist in such
enforcement, and it shall be the duty of the chief of police to perform such
enforcement acts as may be required of him. All village employees duly
authorized and acting as license inspectors shall be conservators of the peace
with police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this title
and other village ordinances relating to the licensing of businesses and
occupations and their regulations. (1985 Code § 3-1-12)
ARTICLE A. LICENSE FEES
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Schedule Of Fees
4-1A-2: Penalties
4-1A-3: Minimum Wage And Leave Policies
4-1A-1: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a license fee as
provided in this section. Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the
contrary, no license shall be renewed until such time as all costs provided by
this article have been paid.
Type Of Business Description Amount
Type Of Business              Description                     Amount
Alcoholic beverages           Classes A, B, C, D              $250.00
Apartment buildings           4 flat (no common area)         100.00
Auto/truck dealerships        All                             200.00
Automatic vending machines    Entertainment                   50.00
                              Food                            25.00
Entertainment                 Theater, OTB (collected through No charge
                              special taxes)
Gas stations                  All                             $ 100.00
                              With minimart                   250.00
High impact                   1,500,000 sq. ft. or more       2,000.00
                              0 - 3,999 sq. ft.               100.00
Industrial                    4,000 - 10,999 sq. ft.          200.00
                              11,000 - 19,999 sq. ft.         600.00
                              20,000 sq. ft. or more          1,500.00
Mobile food truck             All                             225.00
Mobile home parks             All                             900.00
Mobile offices                All                             600.00
Not for profits               Business license to be issued
                              at no charge
Offices                       Will be determined on an
                              individual basis
                              0 - 2,499 sq. ft.               100.00
Restaurants                   2,500 - 2,999 sq. ft.           150.00
                              3,000 sq. ft. or more           250.00
                              0 - 4,999 sq. ft.               100.00
                              5,000 - 9,999 sq. ft.           150.00
Retail/commercial             10,000 - 29,999 sq. ft.         200.00
                              30,000 - 59,999 sq. ft.         600.00
                              60,000 sq. ft. or more          800.00
Services                      All                             200.00
                              Food vendor                     $500.00 per truck
Services out of town          Garbage disposal                $ 150.00
                              Ice cream vendors               75.00
Taxi/public passenger vehicle Includes Uber/Lyft              200.00
                              0 - 5,999 sq. ft.               100.00
                              6,000 - 9,999 sq. ft.           300.00
                              10,000 - 29,999 sq. ft.         600.00
Warehousing                   30,000 - 59,999 sq. ft.         800.00
                              60,000 - 99,999 sq. ft.         900.00
                              100,000 - 124,999 sq. ft.       1,200.00
                              125,000 sq. ft. or more         2,000.00
 
(Ord. 15-16, 10-29-2015; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 22-03, 10-11-2021)
4-1A-2: PENALTIES:
   A.   If a completed license application is not submitted together with the
required license fee prior to January 1 in any given year, the license fee
shall be increased by twenty percent (20%), and further, the base license fee
shall be increased by an additional twenty percent (20%) on the first day of
each subsequent month, until such time as a complete license application and
the required license fee is paid.
   B.   In addition to the late fees as provided herein, each entity which
fails to pay its fee in accordance with this article may be cited for operating
without a license. (Ord. 15-16, 10-29-2015)
4-1A-3: MINIMUM WAGE AND LEAVE POLICIES:
   A.   Employers within the Village of Hodgkins are required to pay minimum
wage in accordance with the law of the State of Illinois.
   B.   In the absence of State law or Collective Bargaining Agreements taking
precedence, all matters concerning employee sick pay or leave policies shall be
at the discretion of the employer. (Ord. 17-06, 5-8-2017)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
4-2-2: License Required
4-2-3: Application For License; Renewal
4-2-4: License Fees
4-2-5: Classification Of Licenses
4-2-6: Conditions Of License
4-2-7: Sanitary Conditions
4-2-8: Conduct Of Licensees
4-2-9: Minors
4-2-10: Prohibited Acts
4-2-11: Additional Rules And Regulations
4-2-12: Enforcement
4-2-13: Violations; Penalties
4-2-14: Appeals From Orders Of Local Liquor Control Commissioner
4-2-1: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   President Serve As: The village president shall be the local liquor
control commissioner. Any fees collected by the local liquor control
commissioner shall be immediately paid by such commissioner upon receipt to the
village comptroller and shall become a part of the general fund of the village.
(1985 Code § 3-3-1; amd. Ord. 98-23, 11-12-1998; 2016 Code)
   B.   Compensation: The local liquor control commissioner shall receive no
compensation. (2016 Code)
4-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the sale at retail or
wholesale of any alcoholic beverage of any kind without first obtaining a
license therefor from the local liquor control commissioner. (1985 Code § 3-3-
2)
4-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; RENEWAL:
   A.   Every person desiring to engage in the business of selling alcoholic
beverages at retail or wholesale shall make application for a license in
writing on forms furnished by the village, stating the person's name, age,
residence, length of time in business, whether he or she then holds or has
theretofore held a license to conduct such business in any other village or
city in the state of Illinois, and whether any license theretofore granted to
the applicant for the conduct of such business has ever been revoked or
suspended. Other information relevant to the qualifications of the applicant
may be included on said forms. Such written application shall be verified and
shall be filed with the local liquor control commissioner. The applicant shall,
at the time of filing the same, pay to the village, by certified check,
cashier's check or money order, payable to the village of Hodgkins, the sum
required in section
4-1A-1 of this title for license fees. Such license application shall be
accompanied by a copy of the applicant's dramshop insurance policy.
   B.   Except for applications for new licenses during the course of the year,
every application for renewal of a license shall be completed and in the hands
of the local liquor control commissioner at least fifteen (15) days prior to
the beginning of the year. No application will be accepted or approved unless
the application fee is paid, the application fully completed, and the questions
answered, properly signed and verified. Failure to complete said application
and to file the same within the time limit prescribed herein shall be deemed
grounds for refusal by the local liquor control commissioner to renew said
license. (1985 Code § 3-3-3; amd. 2016 Code)
4-2-4: LICENSE FEES:
Each applicant for a license to sell alcoholic beverages for retail and
wholesale shall pay for such license to the village, through the local liquor
control commissioner, the sum as provided in section
 4-1A-1 of this title for the calendar year period ending December 31; however,
for licenses issued after July 1, the sum, for six (6) months, as provided in
section
4-1A-1 of this title for each establishment at which such alcoholic liquor or
intoxicating beverage is sold shall be paid; provided, further, that all
licenses shall expire at the end of the year, on December 31, in which issued,
and no such license fee shall be otherwise prorated. (1985 Code § 3-3-4)
4-2-5: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be divided into the
following classes:
   A.   Class A On Premises License: A Class A license is a restricted license
providing for the sale of alcoholic beverages in restaurants which shall
restrict such sales to consumption on the premises where food is regularly
served for consumption on said premises as the principal business conducted
therein.
   B.   Class B Package License: A Class B license is a general license to sell
alcoholic beverages at retail and wholesale for consumption off premises.
   C.   Class C Microbrewery License: A Class C license that shall entitle the
licensee to manufacture beer products on the licensed premises and to make
sales at retail of alcoholic liquor including, but not limited to, the
manufactured beer products, for consumption on or off the licensed premises. A
Class C licensee may also conduct beer sampling and tasting without the
requirement of food service. Nothing in the issuance of a Class C license
pursuant to this subsection shall be considered to relieve the licensee of any
responsibility for complying with all applicable State and Federal regulations
relating to the manufacture and/or sale of beer products or other alcoholic
beverages and all applicable business and other regulations of the Village.
   D.   Class D-1 License, Gas Station: This license shall authorize the retail
sale of beer, wine and spirts only but not for consumption on the premises
where sold. Licensed premises shall be primarily engaged in the sale of
gasoline and petroleum products. No more than ten percent (10%) of the retail
floor area open to public shall be allocated for the display and/or sale of
beer and/or wine. Beer and/or wine shall not be sold after twelve o'clock (12:
00) A.M. - six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   E.   Class D-2 License, Gas Station-with Video Gaming: This license shall
authorize the retail sale of beer and wine only and beer, wine and spirts for
consumption on the premises where sold. Licensed premises shall be primarily
engaged in the sale of gasoline and petroleum products. For retail sales. no
more than ten (10%) of the retail floor area open to public shall be allocated
for display and/or sale of beer wine and/or spirts. For consumption on
premises, business operating gas station shall have greater that fifty percent
(50%) of the gross sales of the business are derived from the sale of petroleum
products subject to the following conditions: beer, wine and spirts shall only
be served in and restricted to a specific room or area within the licensed
premises that is sufficiently separated from the remainder of the licensed
premises by walls or other physical barriers such that the designated area
cannot be viewed from the remainder of the licensed premises and the only
persons over the age of twenty-one (21) may be admitted to the area. Beer and/
or wine shall not be sold after twelve o'clock (12:00) A.M. for retail sales
and consumption on premises.
   F.   Class E-Special Event Licenses: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner
may, at his or her discretion, issue a special event license for events
including, but not limited to, picnics, conventions, celebrations, holiday
festivals, club meetings and other assemblies. Such event shall last no more
than one (1) week. No transfer of such license shall be permitted. The Liquor
Commissioner shall promulgate rules regarding the particulars of the license
including, but not limited to, name of the individual or organization where the
event is to be held and the day or days the event is to take place. (2016 Code;
Ord. 21-01, 1-11-2021)
4-2-6: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   License Not Transferable: Licenses issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are not subject to sale, assignment or transfer.
   B.   License Posted: Any and all persons licensed under this chapter to sell
intoxicating liquors shall immediately cause to be and remain posted, upon some
conspicuous part of the room or bar kept for such purposes, his or her license.
   C.   Location: No alcoholic beverage shall be sold, offered for sale, kept
for sale, displayed or advertised for sale at retail or delivered to any person
purchasing same at retail, except at the location, place or premises described
in a retail liquor license. (1985 Code § 3-3-8)
   D.   Closing Hours:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed herein to sell, permit
to sell, offer for sale or give away any alcoholic liquors in the Village
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.,
prevailing time, Monday through Saturday; and between the hours of two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M., prevailing time, on Sunday. (Ord. 93-
14, 9-13-1993; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   During such prohibited hours of sale, every location, place or
premises where alcoholic liquor may be sold at retail shall be kept closed, and
no person other than the licensee or an employee or a member of the immediate
family of the licensee shall be permitted to remain therein. All doors directly
opening into or out of such location, place or premises for ingress thereto or
egress therefrom shall be securely locked during the prohibited hours of sale.
(1985 Code § 3-3-8; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   The provisions of this section relating to the closing of the
premises and locking of the doors shall not apply to bowling alleys or to movie
theaters, except that the tavern portion or bar where alcoholic liquor is
dispensed shall be closed and no person other than the licensee or an employee
or a member of the immediate family of the licensee shall be permitted to
remain in that tavern or bar area.
   E.   Quantity To Be Sold: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell,
serve, give away or permit to be sold, served or given away for consumption on
the premises except by the glass and except in individual servings not
exceeding sixteen (16) fluid ounces, except for beer which shall not exceed
twenty four (24) fluid ounces. Shot glasses shall contain not less than one
fluid ounce. (Ord. 16-08, 4-11-2016)
   F.   Dramshop Insurance: Every licensee under this chapter shall be required
to maintain dramshop insurance with minimum coverage pursuant to Illinois law.
(1985 Code § 3-3-8)
4-2-7: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises: Every licensed premises shall be equipped with running water,
adequate sanitary washing facilities for cleaning of glasses and service
utensils, shall provide adequate separate toilet facilities for males and
females, and shall comply with all health and sanitary requirements of the
Village and the State of Illinois.
   B.   Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a
carrier of any contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease
to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling,
preparation or distribution of such liquor. (1985 Code § 3-3-9)
4-2-8: CONDUCT OF LICENSEES:
   A.   Orderly Business:
      1.   Every licensee hereunder engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages
shall conduct his or her place of business in a quiet, decent and respectable
manner and shall eject therefrom or refuse admittance thereto all persons
rendering themselves objectionable or undesirable by reason of undue noise or
other acts disturbing the peace.
      2.   No person licensed under the provisions hereof shall suffer any loud
or boisterous talking, or obscene or profane language, quarreling, singing,
fighting or other disturbance of persons passing along any street or public
square in the vicinity thereof or to the disturbance of the peace and quiet of
persons doing business or residing in the neighborhood thereof.
      3.   Every licensee shall immediately report to the police any act by a
person or patron rendering themselves objectionable, causing undue noise or
disturbance, breach of peace, unusual conduct, or a person with a firearm,
knife, bludgeon or deadly instrument. (1985 Code § 3-3-10)
   B.   Sales To Intoxicated Persons: It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or
officer, associate, member, agent, representative or employee of such licensee,
to give or deliver any alcoholic liquor or intoxicating beverages to any
intoxicated person. (1985 Code § 3-3-10; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Obscenity And Public Decency:
      1.   No licensee shall permit his patrons to perform any lewd or
lascivious acts or an act of obscenity as defined in section
6-5E-1 of this Code.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any waiter,
waitress or entertainer to commit any of the unlawful acts enumerated in
section
6-5E-1 of this Code. A person shall be deemed to be a waiter, waitress or
entertainer if such person acts in that capacity without regard to whether or
not such person is paid any compensation by the management of the establishment
in which the activity is performed. (1985 Code § 3-3-10)
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to suffer or permit any species
of gambling in his premises or any part thereof or any place adjacent thereto
under his control; provided, however, that any licensee that has been approved
by the Illinois Racing Board to conduct intertrack wagering and by the Illinois
Gaming Board to conduct sports betting at his premises shall be exempt from
this subsection. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the operation of
video gaming devices in liquor dispensing establishments as authorized by the
Illinois Gambling Board under 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq. (1985
Code § 3-3-10)
   E.    Liquor Leaving Premises: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to
permit alcoholic liquor, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken, to be taken out of the premises wherein it was sold, delivered or
given.
   F.    Violation Of Village, State Or Federal Laws:
      1. It shall be unlawful for any licensee in the conduct of his business
to commit, suffer or permit, through himself, agent, servant or employee, a
violation of a Village ordinance or law of the State of Illinois or the United
States. A certified copy of the conviction or proof before the local
commissioner of facts to establish a violation shall be sufficient cause for
revocation or suspension of any license or a fine imposed against the licensee
in accordance with this chapter, irrespective of whether or not a conviction
has been obtained in any court.
      2. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to suffer or permit a violation
of any rule or regulation of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      3. A licensee shall immediately report to the police a violation of any
Village ordinance, Illinois Statute or Federal law occurring in the licensed
premises, or outside the licensed premises, but adjacent thereto, involving the
conduct of his business or patrons. (1985 Code § 3-3-10; amd. Ord. 06-16, 9-11-
2006; Ord. 12-06, 6-11-2012; Ord. 19-08, 8-12-2019)
4-2-9: MINORS:
   A.   Sales To Restricted: It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or officer,
associate, member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to sell,
give or deliver any alcoholic liquor or intoxicating beverage of any kind to
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Purchase; Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to purchase or have in his or her possession alcoholic
liquor or intoxicating beverages of any kind. (1985 Code § 3-3-11)
   C.   Employment: It shall be unlawful for any such licensee to engage or
employ or permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to work or
entertain in or upon licensed premises where alcoholic liquor is sold while
such premises are open for sale at retail of alcoholic liquors; provided,
however, that this prohibition shall not apply to kitchen help or movie theater
employees between the ages of eighteen (18) and twenty (20) whose duties do not
include the drawing, pouring or opening but does include the serving of
alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 16-08, 4-11-2016; amd. Ord. 18-07, 3-12-2018)
4-2-10: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Consumption, Transportation, Possession In Public: It shall be unlawful
for any person to drink, consume, transport, carry or possess any alcoholic
liquor, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken, on the
public street, sidewalk, or parkway, public parking lot or semipublic parking
lot. The term "semipublic parking lot" shall include any area wherein motor
vehicles are parked by the public in conjunction with any business, enterprise
or commercial establishment.
   B.   Soliciting Drinks Or Prostitution: Solicitation of drinks or
prostitution is prohibited. (1985 Code § 3-3-12)
4-2-11: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may, by resolution, make such other rules
and regulations which, in his opinion, may be in the best interest of the
public. (1985 Code § 3-3-13)
4-2-12: ENFORCEMENT:
The Chief of Police and all police officers shall have the duty to see that all
provisions of this chapter are strictly observed and enforced. Persons who may
be in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be arrested and then
prosecuted with the assistance of the Village Attorney without delay. All
violations of this chapter and infractions of any of the rules and regulations
of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall be immediately reported to him.
(1985 Code § 3-3-14)
4-2-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person engaged in the sale at retail or wholesale of alcoholic
beverages without a license shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; and each
day that any person engages in the sale of liquor contrary to the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute a separate offense; and in addition thereto, any
licensee hereunder who violates or permits a violation of any of the provisions
contained herein pertaining to the conduct of his business under such license
may have his license revoked or suspended by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. In lieu of revocation or suspension, the Liquor Control
Commissioner may, when he deems appropriate, fine the licensee in accordance
with State Statute and this chapter. It is expressly made the duty of the
Commissioner to investigate any complaints concerning the conduct of any such
establishment or place of business and to revoke or suspend the license of any
licensee or fine said licensee for failing or refusing to comply with the
provisions herein or the regulations of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
if, in his judgment, such revocation, suspension, or fine, is advisable. No
such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be fined
except after a public hearing before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner with
a three (3) day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an
opportunity to appear and defend. (1985 Code § 3-3-15)
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1985
Code § 3-3-15; amd. 2016 Code)
4-2-14: APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
Any order or action of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner that is appealable
pursuant to State Statute shall be limited to a review of the official record
of the proceedings of the hearing held before the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner. A certified official record of the proceeding taken and prepared
by a certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter shall be filed by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner within five (5) days after notice of the
filing of such appeal. (1985 Code § 3-3-16)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITATION
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Permit Required; Exemptions
4-3-4: Application For Permit; Examination
4-3-5: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit; Contents
4-3-6: Term Of Permit; Renewals; Nontransferability
4-3-7: Vest And Deposit Required
4-3-8: Limitations And Prohibitions
4-3-9: Revocation Of Permit
4-3-10: Restrictions On Clerk Authority
4-3-11: Appeal Procedures
4-3-12: Penalty
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this chapter are designated to constitute reasonable and
content-neutral time, place and manner restrictions and limitations which allow
persons and organizations ample opportunity to solicit contributions, opinions
and support while protecting and promoting the public peace, privacy, health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the village. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012,
eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
APPLICANT: Any person applying for a solicitation permit.
   CONTRIBUTION: Includes, but is not limited to, gifts, food, pledges, money,
clothing, property, loans, donations, payments for subscriptions or other
publications, or any other thing of value.
   PARTICIPANT: Any person who obtains a solicitation permit under another
applicant.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, firm,
company, society, organization, church, congregation, assembly, or league, and
shall include any director, officer, trustee, receiver, assignee, agent,
employee, or other similar representative thereof.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Means and includes all publicly owned and maintained streets,
sidewalks, alleys, parks, grounds and buildings.
   RESIDENCE: Includes any dwelling, house, building or other structure
designed or used, in whole or in part, for residential purposes, and shall
include any yard, walkway or driveway appurtenant to the structure.
   SOLICITATION: The act of going from door to door or from place to place in
the village or remaining in a fixed location and selling or taking orders for
or offering to sell or take orders for goods, wares or merchandise or any other
thing of value for present or future delivery, or for services to be performed
immediately or in the future, or the making of any oral or written request for
any contribution.
   SOLICITATION PERMIT: The permit from the village which authorizes a person
to engage in solicitation.
   SOLICITOR: An individual who solicits.
   VEHICLE: As the term is defined in Illinois vehicle code, as it now reads or
as hereafter amended.
   VILLAGE CLERK: The village clerk and his/her designee. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-
2012, eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
No person shall engage in solicitation in the village without first applying
for and receiving a solicitation permit from the village clerk authorizing such
solicitation. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to: a)
solicitation made purely for evangelical, missionary, religious, political or
other purposes which does not involve the solicitation of any contribution; or
b) any organization's solicitation of its members or solicitations upon
premises owned or occupied by the organization on whose behalf such
solicitation is made. Any person claiming to be legally exempt from the
application of this chapter shall cite to the village clerk the legal authority
under which the exemption is claimed and shall present to the village clerk
proof of qualification for such exemption. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff. 5-14-
2012)
4-3-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; EXAMINATION:
   A.   An application for a solicitation permit shall be made to the village
clerk. The application shall be filed with the village at least fourteen (14)
calendar days prior to the time at which the permit to conduct solicitation
shall become effective. The village clerk may, for good cause shown, allow the
filing of an application within this fourteen (14) day period. The application
shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of the applicant; if multiple permits
are sought under one applicant, the application must include the name of each
participant.
      2.   A copy of valid identification, such as a driver's license or
passport.
      3.   Name, address and phone number of the person for which the applicant
plans to solicit.
      4.   The purpose of the solicitation.
      5.   Date(s) and time(s) of planned solicitation.
      6.   Make, model and license number of any vehicle the applicant
anticipates using in the village in connection with the solicitation.
      7.   Convictions, if any, for misdemeanors or felonies of the applicant
and each participant.
   B.   The village clerk shall examine relevant documents and materials to
determine the accuracy of the information provided on the application for a
solicitation permit. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-5: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; CONTENTS:
   A.   The village clerk shall either grant or deny the requested solicitation
permit within fourteen (14) calendar days of the date the application is made.
The solicitation permit shall be granted if the village clerk finds all of the
following facts:
      1.   All the statements made in the application are true; and
      2.   The applicant or participant has not been convicted of any crime
reasonably related to door to door solicitation including, but not limited to,
crimes against persons or property or crimes involving the element of fraud.
   B.   Permits issued under this chapter shall bear the name, address and
phone number of the person on behalf of whom the individual is soliciting; the
permit number; the date issued; the dates within which the applicant or
participant may solicit; and a statement that the permit does not constitute an
endorsement by the village or by any of its departments, officers or employees.
All permits must be signed by the village clerk. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff.
5-14-2012)
4-3-6: TERM OF PERMIT; RENEWALS; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Permits shall be valid for no more than fourteen (14) days and may be
renewed once annually. A permit may not be issued more than one time in any six
(6) month period for any one organization.
   B.   No solicitation permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
transferred or assigned. Any attempted assignment or transfer shall be void and
result in the immediate revocation of the solicitation permit. (Ord. 12-03, 5-
14-2012, eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-7: VEST AND DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
A refundable cash deposit of ten dollars ($10.00) for each solicitor safety
vest ("vest") is required upon issuance of the vest and will be refunded when
each vest is returned to the village clerk's office. The cash deposit will be
automatically forfeited to the village for any vest not returned to the village
clerk's office within five (5) days of the expiration of the solicitation
permit. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-8: LIMITATIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Each solicitor shall wear, at all times while engaged in solicitation
in the village, his or her solicitor safety vest, and the solicitor shall
present his/her solicitation permit upon request.
   B.   No person shall solicit or attempt to solicit at any residence or any
public place where there is a sign indicating "No Soliciting" or "No
Solicitors".
   C.   No person shall solicit in any residential area or public place from
the time of sunset or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M., whichever is earlier, to
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. the next day, unless such person has been requested or
invited to do so by the owner or occupant of the premises.
   D.   No person shall engage in aggressive solicitation which includes, but
is not limited to, repetitive solicitation despite refusals, the use of abusive
or profane language to cause intimidation, unwanted physical contact, or the
intentional blocking of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   E.   Street solicitation is not permitted in or on any street or highway in
village. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-9: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   If the village clerk has reason to believe that a solicitor has
violated any of the limitations and prohibitions in this chapter, the village
clerk may revoke the solicitation permit. The village clerk shall give notice
of the revocation, effective immediately, by mail to the solicitor at the
address on the permit application.
   B.   If a solicitation permit is revoked pursuant to subsection A of this
section, the person whose solicitation permit was revoked shall promptly
surrender his or her solicitation permit and solicitation safety vest(s) to the
village clerk. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-10: RESTRICTIONS ON CLERK AUTHORITY:
The village clerk has no authority to, and shall not, grant, deny, suspend,
revoke or refuse to renew any solicitation permit by reason of disapproval or
disagreement with the philosophy, opinion, or belief of the applicant or permit
holder. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-11: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Right To Appeal; Time Requirement: Any person aggrieved by the action
or decision of the village clerk to deny, suspend or revoke a permit shall have
the right to appeal such action to the corporate authorities within fourteen
(14) days from the date on which the village clerk's decision has been mailed
to the applicant/permittee. This date shall be determined by the date on which
the written decision was postmarked. In the event the village clerk fails to
issue a written decision, the appellant shall have twenty one (21) days from
the date on which he/she was orally informed of the village clerk's decision to
deny, suspend or revoke a permit to appeal that decision.
   B.   Statement Of Grounds For Appeal: An appeal shall be perfected by filing
a written statement with the village clerk setting forth the grounds for the
appeal. If a written decision was provided to the appellant from the village
clerk, a copy of that decision shall be attached to the appellant's written
statement. After the receipt of said appeal, the village clerk shall schedule
the appeal for the next regularly scheduled meeting of the corporate
authorities. Provided, however, if said appeal is received within ninety six
(96) hours of a regularly scheduled meeting, said appeal shall be heard at the
following regularly scheduled meeting.
   C.   Hearing:
      1.   A hearing shall be set no later than thirty (30) days from the date
on which an appeal is received.
      2.   Notice of the time and place of the appeal hearing shall be given to
the appellant via U.S. mail at the address provided on the person's
application.
      3.   An appellant shall be given notice of the hearing at least seventy
two (72) hours before the hearing.
   D.   Decision:
      1.   A decision to affirm or reverse the decision of the village clerk
concerning the suspension or revocation of a permit shall be limited to the
record generated at the hearing in front of the village clerk.
      2.   The decision of the corporate authorities of the village shall be
final and binding on all parties concerned.
      3.   A decision to affirm or to reverse a decision of the village clerk
shall be made by a majority vote of the corporate authorities present at the
meeting. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff. 5-14-2012)
4-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 12-03, 5-14-2012, eff. 5-14-2012;
amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
TAXICABS AND PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Licenses Required
4-4-3: Application For Business License
4-4-4: Examination Of Applicant
4-4-5: Insurance Requirements
4-4-6: License Fee
4-4-7: Vehicle Inspection
4-4-8: License Card And Plate
4-4-9: Nontransferability Of License
4-4-10: Required Information On Vehicles
4-4-11: Regular Telephone Service Required
4-4-12: Taximeters
4-4-13: Rates And Charges
4-4-14: Register Of Licensed Vehicles Kept
4-4-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of Business License
4-4-16: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
AUTHORIZED GARAGE: Official state of Illinois testing station or other
designated facility.
   LICENSEE: Any person, firm, or corporation who is the owner of one or more
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter.
   LIVERY VEHICLE: Any public passenger vehicle transporting not more than the
rated passenger load per vehicle, for hire, as a result of individual contract,
on a trip or hourly basis.
   PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE: Taxicab/public passenger vehicles and livery
vehicles used for transportation of passengers for hire.
   PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE CHAUFFEUR: Any person who drives a public passenger
vehicle in use for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE OWNER: Any person owning a public passenger vehicle
for hire.
   RATE CARD: A card used by the village for display in each taxicab/public
passenger vehicle which contains the rates of fare then in force.
   TAXICAB: Any public passenger vehicle equipped with a taximeter and licensed
as a taxicab/public passenger vehicle for the carriage of not more than the
rated passenger load per vehicle, for hire or from such destination as directed
by such passenger hiring such vehicle.
   TAXICAB/PUBLIC PASSENGER VEHICLE STAND: Any place, public (where designated
by the village board) or private (as designated by the private owner), where
taxicab/public passenger vehicles are placed on display and presented for hire
to prospective customers, accepting such persons as may offer themselves for
transportation. Examples of taxicab/public passenger vehicle stands are:
shopping centers, theaters, restaurants, and any prominent gathering place.
   TAXIMETER: Any mechanical or electronic device attached to a taxicab/public
passenger vehicle which records and indicates a charge or fare in dollars and
cents measured by distance and waiting time.
   WAITING TIME: Means and shall include the time when the taxicab/public
passenger vehicle is not in motion, beginning with the arrival at the place to
which it has been called, or the time consumed while standing at the direction
of the passenger, but no charge shall be made for the time lost on account of
inefficiency of the taxicab/public passenger vehicle, or its operator, or time
consumed by a premature response to a call. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991; amd. 2016
Code)
4-4-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Business License: No person, firm or corporation shall operate or
permit a public passenger vehicle which is owned or controlled to be operated
as a vehicle for hire upon the streets of the village without first having
obtained a business license. This subsection does not apply to a person who is
merely an employee of the owner of the vehicle or who leases the vehicle from
the licensee.
   B.   Chauffeur License: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any
taxicab/public passenger vehicle for hire within the village without first
having obtained a public passenger vehicle chauffeur's license. (Ord. 91-12, 5-
13-1991)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE:
The business license application, accompanied by a nonrefundable one hundred
dollars ($100.00), shall contain the same information as is required by the
village for all business licenses and, in addition, shall be accompanied by a
letter providing all of the following additional information, as applicable, if
not on the standard application form: (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a partnership, the persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for profit, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and addresses
of the officers and directors, and if a majority interest of the stock of such
corporation is owned by one person or his nominee, the name and address of such
person.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant; if a natural person, the place of the
applicant's birth, or if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of
naturalization.
   C.   Current occupation/employment, business address and telephone number.
   D.   Educational background.
   E.   Previous employment history.
   F.   Previous military history (if any) and type of discharge.
   G.   Current financial status, including any unpaid judgments and pertinent
information relative to such judgments.
   H.   Any previous convictions of felony and/or traffic violations.
   I.   Previous residences for the past five (5) years.
   J.   The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the applicant
and the location of proposed depots and terminals.
   K.   The color scheme or insignia to be used to designate the vehicle or
vehicles of the applicant not in conflict with emergency vehicles or existing
public passenger vehicles, as required by this chapter.
   L.   Such further information as may be required by the village chief of
police. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-4: EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT:
The chief of police, upon receipt of the application for a taxicab/public
passenger vehicle license, shall, in person or by some police officer
designated by him, examine the applicant as to the truth of the statements made
in the application; the applicant's knowledge of the provisions of this
chapter, of the traffic ordinances and of the geography of the village; and the
ability of the applicant to comply with the provisions of this chapter. The
chief of police shall also check the driving background of each driver
designated in the application. No license shall be issued to an applicant if
the results of said examination are unsatisfactory in any respect nor to an
applicant who makes a false statement in his application. After said
examination and the inspection of the vehicle as hereinafter required, the
chief of police shall endorse on the application his recommendation as to
whether or not the license shall be issued and shall forward the application to
the board of trustees. The board of trustees shall determine whether the
applicant is entitled to a license under the provisions of this chapter. No
license shall be issued unless such approval has been given. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-
1991)
4-4-5: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Before any application for license or the annual renewal of a license to
operate a taxicab/public passenger vehicle shall be approved, the applicant
shall furnish and deposit with the public passenger vehicle application the
following:
   A.   A certificate from the secretary of state of Illinois showing
compliance by the licensee for such vehicle with the provisions of the statutes
of the state of Illinois now or hereafter in force relating to the bonding or
insuring of motor vehicles used for the carriage of passengers for hire.
   B.   A current certificate of insurance, for a period not less than the
annual license year period, evidencing public liability insurance, including
underinsured and uninsured motor vehicle coverage, not less than five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per person and in the amount not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per accident or occurrence and five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for property damage.
   C.   Each such duplicate policy or certificate of insurance herein required
shall provide for payment and satisfaction of any final judgment rendered as
aforesaid and shall provide that suit may be brought in any court of competent
jurisdiction upon such insurance policy by the owner of any such judgment;
shall contain a description of each motor vehicle, giving the manufacturer's
name, the serial number and the state license number; and shall also provide
that said insurance policy cannot be canceled by the company issuing the same
without giving ten (10) days' notice in writing of such cancellation to the
village, care of the village clerk either personally or by certified mail.
(Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-6: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for taxicab/public passenger vehicles shall be as set forth in
section
4-1A-1 of this title. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-7: VEHICLE INSPECTION:
   A.   No taxicab/public passenger vehicle shall be licensed until it has been
inspected and approved by the chief of police and found to be in safe condition
for the transportation of passengers, clean, of good appearance, well painted,
and the taximeter, if required, functioning properly and in full compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. Every owner of a taxicab/public passenger
vehicle shall submit such vehicle owned to the chief of police for inspection
at the time application is made for license and at least once every six (6)
months thereafter and at any time upon complaint or upon demand by the board of
trustees. On every inspection, whether before or after the annual license is
issued, a physical inspection shall be made by the chief of police or some
police officer designated by him, including the following items: condition of
tires, including spare tire, cleanliness, general appearance, accommodation for
passengers and condition and accuracy of taximeter. Mechanical tests shall also
be made by the chief of police or a testing garage or testing station approved
by him, including examination and testing of brakes, wheel alignment, horn,
windshield wipers, rearview mirror, steering mechanism, headlights, taillights
and stoplights. Tests shall also be made to ascertain that all doors are in
working order and that all windows will move up and down.
   B.   If the tests are not satisfactory. the vehicle shall be disqualified
for use as a taxicab/public passenger vehicle. No owner or person in charge of
such vehicle shall use it or permit it to be used in public passenger service
until it has been repaired or reconditioned to the satisfaction of the chief of
police and the inspection fee provided in subsection D of this section has been
paid.
   C.   After every inspection, the chief of police shall make a written report
to the board of trustees of his findings, which shall be maintained in the
village clerk's office with the application file. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
   D.   The fee for each inspection shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) and shall
be separate from the annual license fee set forth in section
4-1A-1 of this title and shall, in the case of the inspection at the time of
application or annual renewal, be paid at the time of the filing of the annual
or renewal application. For the subsequent inspections during the year, the
inspection fees shall be paid at the time of the inspection. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-
1991; amd. 2016 Code)
4-4-8: LICENSE CARD AND PLATE:
   A.   If, upon inspection, a taxicab/public passenger vehicle is found to be
of lawful construction and in proper condition in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations established hereunder,
and upon payment of the license fee herein set forth, the same shall be
licensed by delivering to the owner a card of such size and form as may be
prescribed by the board. The card shall contain the official license number of
the vehicle. Such card shall be signed by the clerk or his deputy and shall
contain blank spaces upon which an entry shall be made of the date of every
inspection of the vehicle by the inspector. License cards shall be of a
distinctly different color each year, and in the case of public vehicles driven
by mechanical power, the license number assigned hereunder shall be, in each
case, the same as that assigned to the vehicle for that year pursuant to law.
The owner shall also affix to a conspicuous part of each public vehicle a small
plate, not exceeding six inches (6") in diameter, which shall bear the license
number of the vehicle. The design of such plates shall be changed annually.
   B.   The village clerk shall assign to each public passenger vehicle a
numbered vehicle license decal which shall be affixed to the certified
inspection plate. Such inspection plate shall be visibly displayed in the lower
left hand corner of the rear window of the public passenger vehicle. (Ord. 91-
12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
The owner's public passenger vehicle license provided in this chapter shall not
be transferable. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-10: REQUIRED INFORMATION ON VEHICLES:
Every licensed taxicab/public passenger vehicle shall bear on both sides of the
vehicle in lettering in contrast to the color of the vehicle, not less than two
inches (2") in height, the name of the taxicab/public passenger company and its
telephone number. All other commercial advertising, including flashing lights
and other attention getting devices, is prohibited. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-11: REGULAR TELEPHONE SERVICE REQUIRED:
Every holder of a public passenger vehicle business license shall have and keep
in service at all times while his license is in effect, regular telephone
service within the village by means of which a person desiring to rent a public
passenger vehicle may call the licensee by calling a local telephone number.
The licensee shall cause the telephone number to be listed in the local
telephone directory which is published in and for the village by the telephone
company which furnishes local telephone service to the village. (Ord. 91-12, 5-
13-1991)
4-4-12: TAXIMETERS:
   A.   Taximeter And Use Required: Every taxicab/public passenger vehicle
operated in the village shall be equipped with a taximeter of a size and design
approved by the chief of police. Every taxicab/public passenger vehicle
operator, at the termination of his trip, shall throw the flag to the
nonrecording position on the taximeter and call the passenger's attention to
the fare registered. The taximeter shall not be changed until the fare has been
paid or a charge ticket therefor made out and delivered to the person hiring
such taxicab/public passenger vehicle. Any person shall be entitled, upon
request, to a receipt for the fare paid. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991; amd. 2016
Code)
   B.   Visibility To Passenger; Condition And Testing: The taximeter shall be
placed in the taxicab/public passenger vehicle so as to be readily visible to
passengers and shall be maintained in good operative condition at all times. It
shall be tested for accuracy at least once every six (6) months, and at any
time upon complaint, by the chief of police or some police officer designated
by him, who shall test it by checking its registration over a course of known
land and by checking its time registration. Errors in distance or time
registration shall be corrected. No person other than a police officer shall
change or tamper with the taximeter. No person shall transfer a taximeter to
any other taxicab/public passenger vehicle than the one in which it is
installed unless a new inspection is made and certification thereof issued.
   C.   Flag: Each taximeter shall be provided with a flag at least three
inches by two inches (3" x 2") in size, either painted red or bearing thereon
in letters at least one inch (1") high, the word "Vacant" or the words "For
Hire". The flag post of such flag shall be kept up or toward a vertical
position when the taxicab/public passenger vehicle is for hire and shall be
immediately pulled down and kept in a horizontal or lowered position at all
times that such taxicab/public passenger vehicle is engaged in the
transportation of passengers for hire. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-13: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Provided To Village; May Be Established By Village: All licensees,
owners or operators of taxicab/public passenger vehicles shall submit to the
village clerk every six (6) months, on January 1 and July 1, a notarized copy
of the taxicab/public passenger vehicle rates in effect on those dates and not
less than sixty (60) days prior to the effective date of any proposed rate
change. Every person shall be entitled to the service of the licensee at such
established rates and charges. Notwithstanding the above, the village reserves
the right to establish rates and charges for taxicab/public passenger vehicles
at any time.
   B.   Posting In Vehicle Required: There shall be affixed on the inside of
each taxicab/public passenger vehicle in a conspicuous place and in such manner
that the same may be easily and conveniently read by any person riding in such
taxicab/public passenger vehicle, a card in a frame covered by glass or other
transparent material, upon which card shall be printed in plain, legible type
the rates of fare as prescribed by subsection A of this section.
   C.   Working Meter Required: No taxicab/public passenger vehicle shall
operate with passengers for hire unless the taximeter shall be accurately
recording the fare to be charged. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-14: REGISTER OF LICENSED VEHICLES KEPT:
The village clerk shall keep a register of the name of each person owning or
operating a vehicle licensed under this chapter, together with the license
number and description, make and necessary dimensions of such vehicle, with the
date and complete record of inspection. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
In case of any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or any
traffic ordinance or regulation, or any state law, the village president, at
his discretion, may suspend or revoke any license provided under this chapter.
(Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991)
4-4-16: PENALTY:
Any owner or driver of a vehicle not licensed and equipped in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter or of a vehicle, the license of which has been
suspended or revoked, who engages in the business of operating a taxicab/public
passenger vehicle, as defined in this chapter, shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each offense. (Ord. 91-12, 5-13-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TOBACCO DEALERS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Sales To Minors Prohibited
4-5-2: Minimum Age To Sell Products
4-5-3: Purchase, Possession By Minors Prohibited
4-5-4: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
4-5-5: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
4-5-6: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Hearing; Fines And Costs
4-5-7: Use Of Premises After Revocation
4-5-1: SALES TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell,
offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products to any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided herein
shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display of tobacco products
and on or upon every vending machine which offers tobacco products for sale.
Each sign shall state:
THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW
The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background; said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high. (Ord. 97-18, 5-12-1997)
4-5-2: MINIMUM AGE TO SELL PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee to engage, employ or permit
any person under eighteen (18) years of age to sell tobacco products in any
licensed premises. (Ord. 97-18, 5-12-1997)
4-5-3: PURCHASE, POSSESSION BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Purchase Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years to purchase tobacco products, or to misrepresent his
identity or age, or to use any false or altered identification for the purpose
of purchasing tobacco products.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to possess any tobacco products; provided, that the
possession by a person under the age of eighteen (18) years under the direct
supervision of, or with the express consent of, the parent or guardian of such
person shall not be prohibited. (Ord. 97-18, 5-12-1997)
4-5-4: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of selling
or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products, or any
employee or agent of any such licensee or person, in the course of such
licensee's or person's business, to distribute, give away or deliver tobacco
products free of charge to any person on any right of way, park, playground or
other property owned by the village or any school district or park district.
(Ord. 97-18, 5-12-1997)
4-5-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee, and such licensee shall be subject to punishment in the same manner
as if such act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally.
(Ord. 97-18, 5-12-1997)
4-5-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING; FINES AND COSTS:
   A.   Authority To Suspend Or Revoke; Fine In Lieu: The village president
shall be charged with the administration of this chapter and may suspend or
revoke any license issued under the provisions of this chapter if he determines
that the licensee has violated any of said provisions. In lieu of suspension or
revocation of a license, the village president may instead levy a fine on the
licensee. The fine imposed shall not exceed that provided in section
1-4-1  of this code for each violation. Each day on which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 97-18, 5-12-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Hearing, Decision, Cost:
      1.   No license shall be suspended or revoked and no licensee shall be
fined except after a public hearing by the village president with a seven (7)
day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend against the charges contained in the notice. The seven (7)
day notice provisions shall begin the day following delivery by certified mail
or by personal service.
      2.   The village president shall, within seven (7) days after the
hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be revoked
or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason for such
determination in a written order and either the amount of the fine, the period
of suspension or that the license has been revoked and serve a copy of such
order within the seven (7) days upon the licensee.
      3.   Any licensee determined by the village president to have violated
any of the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the village the costs of the
hearing before the village president on such violation. The village president
shall determine the costs incurred by the village for said hearing including,
but not limited to: court reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records,
attorney fees, the cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders and all
other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village or such lesser sum as the
village president may allow.
      4.   The licensee shall pay said costs to the village within thirty (30)
days of notification of the costs by the village president. Failure to pay said
costs within thirty (30) days of notification is a violation of this chapter
and may cause for license suspension or revocation, or the levy of a fine.
(Ord. 97-18, 5-12-1997)
4-5-7: USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION:
When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to said licensee for the period of six (6) months thereafter for the
conduct of the business of selling tobacco products in the premises described
in such revoked license. (Ord. 97-18, 5-12-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 6
AUTOMATIC VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
4-6-1: License Required
4-6-2: Application For License
4-6-3: Issuance Of License; Fee; Term
4-6-4: Food Vending Machines
4-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate or maintain within the village any automatic
vending machine for the sale of music, amusement or any merchandise, nor sell
or offer to sell any such item by means of an automatic vending machine or
amusement device, without first having obtained a license for each of said
mechanical machines.
   B.   No person shall permit to operate or be maintained on premises under
his control any automatic vending machine, as described herein, which does not
have a license attached to said machine, as required by this chapter. (1985
Code § 3-6-1)
4-6-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to sell any merchandise by means of automatic vending
machines shall make application for a license for that purpose to the village
clerk. Such application shall set forth the name and address of the applicant,
the retailers' occupation tax registration number assigned to the applicant by
the Illinois department of revenue, the number assigned to each machine by the
department of revenue, the number of vending machines for which the applicant
desires licenses, the locations of said vending machines, and the merchandise
being offered for sale by means of said vending machines. (1985 Code § 3-6-2)
4-6-3: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEE; TERM:
If the applicant is found to possess the retailer's occupation tax registration
number and to be of good character and reputation, the village clerk shall
cause a license or licenses to be issued such applicant upon the payment of the
license fees set forth in section
4-1A-1 of this title, which license shall be valid for a period of one year.
Such period for which each annual license is issued shall be from January 1 to
December 31, inclusive, and said fee shall not be prorated. No such license
shall be issued, however, where an applicant does not have a registration
number. (1985 Code § 3-6-3)
4-6-4: FOOD VENDING MACHINES:
   A.   Food Sanitation Requirements: All articles of food purveyed by means of
an automatic food vending machine shall be clean, wholesome, free from taint,
decay or infections, and shall contain no poisonous, deleterious or injurious
ingredients in kind and quantities so as to render such articles injurious or
detrimental to health.
   B.   Inspections: The chief of police or his designated officer shall make
periodic inspections of all automatic food vending machines and articles of
food purveyed therefrom for the purpose of determining the purity and
wholesomeness of the products vended, the preparation, wrapping and handling of
the same and to see that there is compliance with all requirements of this
title and the health provisions of this code, including the operation and use
of such machines, to guard against improper handling, distribution and
contamination of food purveyed thereby. (1985 Code § 3-6-4)
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
CHAPTER 8
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Location Prohibitions
4-8-1: LOCATION PROHIBITIONS:
Adult entertainment facilities are prohibited from locating within one mile of
the property boundaries of any school, daycare center, cemetery, public park,
forest preserve, public housing and place of religious worship. For the
purposes of this section, "adult entertainment facility" is described as
either: a) a striptease club or pornographic movie theater whose business is
the commercial sale, dissemination, or distribution of sexually explicit
material, shows, or other distributions; or b) an adult bookstore or adult
video store in which twenty five percent (25%) or more of its stock and trade
is the commercial sale, dissemination, or distribution of sexually explicit
material, shows, or other exhibitions. (Ord. 05-22, 8-8-2005; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING RENTALS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: License Required; General Provisions
4-9-3: Application For License
4-9-4: License Fee
4-9-5: Term Of License
4-9-6: Compliance With Provisions; Inspections; Common Areas
4-9-7: License Applicable To Specific Dwelling
4-9-8: License Renewal Restrictions
4-9-9: Sale Or Transfer Of Dwelling
4-9-10: Closing, Canceling And Certain Transfers
4-9-11: Additional Requirements
4-9-12: Tenant Responsibility
4-9-13: Notice For Inspection; Search Warrant
4-9-14: Violations; License Suspension Or Revocation Provisions
4-9-15: Owner Liability
4-9-16: Enforcement Costs
4-9-17: Penalty
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of disrepair
which renders the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any
motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7)
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   COMMON AREAS (EXTERIOR): The private roads and streets and private sidewalks
adjacent thereto, landscaping, detention ponds, utility facilities, trash
enclosures, playground equipment, swimming pools, tennis courts, basketball
courts or any other recreational facilities, trail areas, parking areas,
private drives, detached garages, lighting fixtures, signage, mailboxes, street
benches, entrance monuments, perimeter fencing and such other improvements or
structures from time to time or at any time located or constructed on a common
area. Such common areas may serve, in whole or in part, one or more multiple-
family dwellings.
   COMMON AREAS (INTERIOR): Any portion or part thereof of a multiple-family
dwelling having communal areas (laundry, furnace, storage rooms, hallways,
stairways, meeting rooms, basements) and all other areas located within the
multiple- family dwelling, outside of a dwelling unit. Interior common areas
shall also include stoops, entrance doors, roofs, attics, balconies, lighting
fixtures, signage, railings, patios, storage areas, garages, exterior building
surfaces, gutters and downspouts and any other areas of a multiple- family
dwelling to which the owner is directly responsible for the proper maintenance
thereof.
   DWELLING UNIT: Any room(s) or group of rooms located within a multiple-
family dwelling and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are
used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   FOOT-CANDLE: The quantity of light reaching a surface. It is equal to the
number of lumens divided by the square footage of the surface the lumens are
covering, i.e., one lumen covering one square foot equals one foot-candle.
   LUMEN: The quantity of light emitted by a light source.
   MANAGING AGENT: Any person or firm, acting for another, with authority to
rent, manage and/or make expenditures.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building that is designed and built as a group
of individual dwelling units, in which units may or may not touch by virtue of
common or party walls and floors and ceilings, and which contains four (4) or
more dwelling units per building. Each building that has its own address shall
be considered a separate multiple-family dwelling.
   OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care, control or management of a
multiple-family dwelling or dwelling, or part thereof, in which dwelling units
or rooming units are let.
   OWNER: Any person who, alone, jointly or severally with others, has legal
title to any multiple-family dwelling with or without accompanying actual
possession thereof; or who has charge, care or control of any multiple-family
dwelling as owner or other person; or is an executor, administrator, trustee or
guardian of the estate of the owner. Any person thus representing the actual
owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter and the
rules and regulations pursuant hereto, to the same extent as if he were the
owner.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal entity.
   PREOCCUPANCY INSPECTION: An inspection conducted by the village prior to
rental or occupancy of a dwelling unit to determine if the dwelling unit is in
full compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes and regulations of the
village.
   TENANT: Any occupant of a multiple-family dwelling as designated by the
rental lease. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   No person shall operate a multiple-family dwelling within the village
without having first obtained a license therefor. Each multiple-family dwelling
building that has its own address shall be considered a separate multiple-
family dwelling and is required to have a separate license.
   B.   Licenses shall be issued by the village clerk in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Any license in effect prior to the effective date hereof shall be valid
through its expiration date. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be issued except upon written application filed with the
village clerk. A complete application for a license shall be filed not less
than thirty (30) days prior to the issuance thereof. Said application shall be
signed by the legal titleholder to the multiple-family dwelling. Any person
seeking to renew a license issued pursuant to this chapter shall file a
completed application not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of
the currently valid license. Application forms may be obtained from the village
clerk and shall contain such information as the village clerk may, from time to
time, require including, but not limited to:
   A.   Name, address, and work and home telephone numbers of each owner of the
multiple-family dwelling. When the owner is a land trust, the application shall
include the name and address of each person(s) holding a beneficial interest
and/or power of direction therein.
   B.   Name, address, and work and home telephone numbers of any person
appointed as managing agent of the multiple-family dwelling. If the managing
agent is other than a natural person, the above information shall also be
provided for that employee of the managing agent specifically assigned to the
multiple-family dwelling.
   C.   A copy of the written management agreement between the owner and the
managing agent shall be attached to the application. If no written agreement
exists, the owner and managing agent shall attach an executed statement setting
forth the terms of the managing agent's authority to rent, manage, and make
expenditures with respect to the multiple- family dwelling.
   D.   Name, address, and work and home telephone numbers of the janitor(s) or
engineer(s) or electrician or plumber in charge of the specific maintenance
aspects of the multiple-family dwelling and its heating, cooling, plumbing and
electrical systems. Attached to the application shall be a statement of the
janitor's or engineer's authority to maintain and repair the multiple-family
dwelling and its systems, including emergency repairs. The application shall
also include a copy of the engineer's, electrician's and plumber's professional
certification.
   E.   Name, address, and work and home telephone numbers of any person(s)
(other than those listed pursuant to subsections A, B and D of this section),
if any, having authority to make any decision with respect to the management
and/or maintenance of the multiple-family dwelling. Attached to the application
shall be a statement of such person's authority to manage, lease and/or
maintain the multiple-family dwelling.
   F.   The name, address and telephone number of each company that services
the fire alarm systems, sprinkler systems and/or elevator(s).
   G.   A copy of a plan evidencing what improvements, renovation(s) and/or
replacements are budgeted for the license year.
   H.   An agreement to pay all enforcement costs provided by section
4-9-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
   I.   A copy of the most recent test results required under subsection
4-9-11D of this chapter. (Ord. 15-02, 3-9-2015, eff. 3-9-2015)
   J.   A copy of all leases that are currently in effect for each multiple-
family dwelling.
   K.   A copy of all insurance policies and proof of coverage for each
multiple-family dwelling. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a license fee as
set out in section
 4-1A-1 of this title, offices. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   If the ownership of a multiple-family dwelling changes during the
license year, the license fee for the new owner shall be determined on a
prorated basis. No refund of any license fee paid shall be made. (Ord. 14-02,
4-14-2014)
4-9-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license granted hereunder shall be an annual license, the term of which
shall commence on January 1 of a given year and shall terminate on December 31
of the same year. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-6: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; INSPECTIONS; COMMON AREAS:
   A.   Compliance Required:
      1.   Every multiple-family dwelling shall be owned, operated and
maintained in full compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes and
regulations of the village.
      2.   The first license applied for with respect to any multiple- family
dwelling under this chapter shall not be issued to any owner for any multiple-
family dwelling in the event, at the time of application:
         a.   An existing inspection report identifies any code violation which
has not been corrected, and the time for correction of said violation as noted
in such inspection report has expired; or
         b.   Litigation is pending with respect to code violations at such
multiple-family dwelling.
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   Required:
         a.   The village shall conduct an annual inspection and a preoccupancy
inspection, as necessary, of every multiple- family dwelling during the license
year to determine if said multiple-family dwelling is in full compliance with
all applicable ordinances, codes and regulations of the village.
         b.   No owner shall rent or occupy any dwelling unit to a new tenant
or new occupant until a preoccupancy inspection is completed by the village to
determine if the dwelling unit is in full compliance with all applicable
ordinances, codes and regulations of the village.
      2.   Scope: Any inspections conducted pursuant to this subsection B shall
include the interior and exterior common areas. The annual inspection shall
include the interior of the multiple-family dwelling units according to the
following schedule:
         a.   In multiple-family dwellings containing up to and including eight
(8) dwelling units, a minimum of two (2) dwelling units in each multiple-family
dwelling;
         b.   In multiple-family dwellings containing from nine (9) to and
including sixteen (16) dwelling units, a minimum of four (4) dwelling units in
each multiple-family dwelling;
         c.   In multiple-family dwellings containing more than sixteen (16)
dwelling units or owners who own three (3) or more multiple-family dwellings
within the village boundaries, a minimum of one unit or twenty percent (20%),
whichever is greater, of the total number of dwelling units owned.
   C.   Common Areas Classified As Multiple-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Where any common area is defined by this chapter as a multiple-
family dwelling, no multiple-family dwelling served in whole or in part by such
common area shall be deemed to be in compliance with this chapter unless and
until such common area is in full compliance with this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes and regulations.
      2.   Where any multiple-family dwelling is served in whole or in part by
any common area defined by this chapter as a multiple- family dwelling, no such
common area shall be used for any type of business or recreational purpose or
dwelling purpose (i.e., sleeping, bathing, etc.). Such common area may be used
for limited storage of incidental and seasonal storage usage.
      3.   Any and all temporary structures intended to be used for a common
area, such as a tent, must be approved and permitted by the village prior to
installation. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-7: LICENSE APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC DWELLING:
A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall only be valid with respect to
the specific multiple-family dwelling unit owned and listed on the license
application. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-8: LICENSE RENEWAL RESTRICTIONS:
A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be renewed unless the
applicant is otherwise in conformance with the provisions of this chapter,
including the correction of existing code violations in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and all other provisions of this code. (Ord. 14-02,
4-14-2014)
4-9-9: SALE OR TRANSFER OF DWELLING:
   A.   License No Longer Valid: Upon the sale or transfer of any multiple-
family dwelling, said multiple-family dwelling license shall be deemed stricken
pursuant to this chapter. This is not applicable upon any court controlled
transfer.
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   Inspection Report Required: No multiple-family dwelling shall be
sold unless the seller furnishes the buyer with a presale inspection report
dated no more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the date of closing
and dated no later than the day of the closing on the sale of said multiple-
family dwelling. Said report shall be submitted to the village building
department, or its designated agent. Inspection shall include all dwelling
units and all interior and exterior common areas. The report shall state that
the multiple-family dwelling complies with all applicable statutes, ordinances,
codes and regulations or, in the alternative, list with specificity the manner
in which the multiple-family dwelling does not comply with all applicable
statutes, ordinances, codes and regulations. No presale inspections are
required on a court controlled transfer.
      2.   Violations: An inspection made pursuant to this subsection B
satisfies the annual inspection requirement of section
 4-9-6 of this chapter. A sale, for purposes of this subsection B, includes
contract sales, exchanges, conversions to condominiums and transfers of
possession or control of any multiple-family dwelling. Any person participating
in such a sale in violation of this subsection B, either as seller or buyer, in
connection therewith, shall be deemed in violation of this subsection B and
shall be subject to the penalties as provided in this chapter. Any contract
executed in violation of this subsection B shall be voidable by the buyer.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any buyer shall be responsible for complying
with each and every provision of this chapter. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-10: CLOSING, CANCELING AND CERTAIN TRANSFERS:
   A.   Transfer With Respect To Certain Parties: Whenever there is a change in
the managing agent, owner, or other responsible party of a multiple-family
dwelling unit, the owners shall provide written notice to the village building
department within seven (7) days of such a change and file an updated multiple-
family license application. No fee will be due for filing the change.
   B.   Closing, Canceling License: If at any time a multiple- family dwelling
is no longer a rental building, written notice shall be provided to the village
within seven (7) days of such change. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-11: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to all other requirements set forth in this chapter, the following
additional requirements shall be applicable to multiple-family dwellings:
   A.   No owner or other person shall occupy or allow another person to occupy
or lease any dwelling unit unless it is clean, safe, sanitary, and fit for
human occupancy, has heat and electrical services, and complies with all
applicable statutes, ordinances, codes and regulations.
   B.   Every multiple-family dwelling or dwelling unit shall have water
heating facilities which are properly installed, maintained and capable of
providing an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required sink,
lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility at a temperature of not less
than one hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F).
   C.   The owner of any multiple-family dwelling shall be responsible for the
removal of any and all abandoned vehicles located on the premises of said
multiple-family dwelling. Such removal shall be accomplished within seven (7)
days. If any abandoned vehicle poses a hazard to human safety, it shall be
removed immediately. Such removals shall be accomplished as otherwise provided
by law.
   D.   The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance and annual testing
of fire alarms, smoke detectors, carbon monoxide detectors, fire sprinkler
systems, and emergency lighting systems. Systems shall be tested by an approved
service company with a written report. The owner shall provide a copy of these
test results to the village with the owner's annual license application. Any
and all noted deficiencies shall be immediately corrected by the owner.
   E.   As a general rule, no owner shall permit the maximum occupancy of any
dwelling unit to be exceeded. The maximum occupancy of any dwelling unit shall
be based on the following:
Number Of Bedrooms Maximum Number Of Persons In Household
Number Of Bedrooms Maximum Number Of Persons In Household
0                  1
1                  2
2                  4
3                  6
4                  8
5                  10
6                  12
 
   F.   1. Every owner shall provide illumination for multiple- family
dwellings, as follows:
         a.   Entrances to dwellings containing four (4) or more dwelling units
shall be illuminated during the period from sunset to sunrise with at least the
equivalent of a one hundred (100) watt bulb. Such bulb shall be covered and
protected by a clear polycarbonate cover or cover of equal breaking resistant
material.
         b.   Open parking lots and access thereto providing more than ten (10)
parking spaces shall be provided with a maintained minimum of four-tenths (0.4)
horizontal foot-candle of light on the parking surface from dusk until dawn.
         c.   Parking and other nonenclosed areas under or within dwellings
containing four (4) or more dwelling units at grade shall be provided with a
maintained minimum of four-tenths (0.4) horizontal foot-candle of light on the
parking or walking surface from dusk until dawn.
         d.   Sidewalks and walkways leading from parking lots to the dwelling
or from dwelling to dwelling shall be provided with a maintained minimum of
four-tenths (0.4) horizontal foot-candle of light on the walking surface from
dusk until dawn.
      2.   Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, the
dwelling official shall have final approval of all illumination and may alter
the regulations contained herein, including the times in which the illumination
is to be provided, so as to lessen the impact on surrounding properties.
   G.   1. In the event that the owner of a multiple-family dwelling resides
outside the corporate limits of the village, the owner shall appoint a managing
agent that:
         a.   Has an office at the multiple-family dwelling with regular
business hours;
         b.   Lives at the multiple-family dwelling and has regular business
hours thereat; or
         c.   Has an office within the corporate limits of the village with
regular business hours.
      2.   A managing agent shall be authorized to receive notices and process
on behalf of the owner.
   H.   Every owner, or managing agent, if one is required or otherwise
appointed, shall have in his possession and immediately available for
inspection or use by the village:
      1.   Keys to all common area locks at the multiple-family dwelling.
      2.   Copies of all current leases and their respective applications.
      3.   Copies of all lease applications for the past year.
   I.   From and after the effective date hereof, no dwelling unit shall be
rented without the owner having first obtained a written application containing
or having attached thereto the following information:
      1.   Name and home telephone number(s) of each applicant.
      2.   Name and ages of all other persons who will be residing in the
dwelling unit.
      3.   Name, address and telephone number of nearest relative or friends
(at least 2) for emergency contact purposes.
      4.   The make, model, color, year and current license plate numbers of
all cars, boats and trailers, campers, motorcycles, etc., owned or used by the
persons who will reside in the dwelling unit.
      5.   A certification provided by the owner or agent as to the correctness
of the information being provided. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-12: TENANT RESPONSIBILITY:
No tenant shall commit vandalism in the dwelling in which the tenant's dwelling
unit is located, and no tenant shall permit vandalism to occur or shall violate
any of the provisions of this chapter or any applicable ordinance, code or
regulation of the village in the dwelling unit leased by the tenant. (Ord. 14-
02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-13: NOTICE FOR INSPECTION; SEARCH WARRANT:
   A.   Each owner, by operating under a license issued pursuant to this
chapter, and each tenant, by occupying a multiple-family dwelling subject to a
license under this chapter, is subject to inspections by the village entering
any and all portions of the multiple-family dwelling subject to the owner's
license or tenant's lease for purposes of making the inspections required and/
or permitted pursuant to this chapter, including the inspection of individual
dwelling units.
   B.   The village will schedule inspections with the managing agent and/or
owner of the multiple-family dwelling. The owner is responsible for notifying
all lessees with a minimum of forty eight (48) hours' notice of such
inspection. The owner and/or lessee shall provide access to such portions of
the multiple-family dwelling, including dwelling units, which are otherwise
inaccessible to village inspector(s). During any inspection of an inaccessible
portion of the multiple-family dwelling, the owner shall designate a
representative to accompany the village inspector(s) during such inspection.
   C.   In the event that an owner or lessee objects to any such inspection,
the village shall apply for an administrative search warrant to conduct such
inspection. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-14: VIOLATIONS; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Possible Citation: Whenever, upon inspection of
the licensed multiple-family dwelling, it is determined that conditions or
practices exist which are in violation of the provisions of this chapter or any
applicable statute, ordinance, code or regulation, the village shall serve the
owner with a notice of violation. Such notice shall identify the specific
violations and state that unless they are corrected within the time specified
in the notice, the license may be suspended. Notice pursuant to this subsection
may be sent by U.S. certified mail, regular mail, e-mail, or hand delivered to
the party designated in the application to receive notices and process. The
owner may also be cited by the village pursuant to applicable laws and
ordinances.
   B.   Reinspections; Suspension Of License; Reinstatement:
      1.   At the end of the time allowed for correction of any violation cited
or preoccupancy inspection, the multiple- family dwelling shall be reinspected
by the village. If it is determined that the conditions have not been
corrected, or they are not in the process of being corrected to the
satisfaction of the village inspector, the village may issue an order
suspending the license. Tenant caused violations will not be considered grounds
for suspension of the license as long as the owner cooperates in gaining
compliance.
      2.   Any person whose license to operate a multiple-family dwelling has
been suspended shall be given the opportunity to be heard by the village
building department in connection with the violations. Said person must submit
his or her request to be heard in writing, and the written request must explain
in detail the violations cited, why they have not been corrected, and a
compliance time frame for completion. However, if no written request for
hearing reaches the village building department within twenty one (21) days
following the issuance of the order of suspension, the license shall be
revoked. The village, as a result of such hearing, may grant additional time or
may revoke the license. Prior to revocation, any owner whose license has been
suspended may request a reinspection upon a showing that the violation or
violations cited in the notice have been corrected.
      3.   If, upon reinspection, it is determined by the village that the
violations cited in the notice have been corrected, the license shall be
reinstated by the village clerk. A request for reinspection must be filed
within the twenty one (21) day time period for requesting a hearing.
   C.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   If the licensee is found guilty by a court of a violation of any
provision of this chapter or any applicable ordinance, code or regulation in
connection with the licensed multiple- family dwelling, then the license shall
be subject to revocation without further notice.
      2.   In the event a condition of extreme hazard to health or safety is
found to exist, the village may immediately revoke the license.
   D.   Each Day A Separate Offense: Each day a multiple-family dwelling
continues to operate after a license has been revoked shall constitute a
separate violation of this chapter.
   E.   Inspection Costs: The first and second reinspection provided in
subsection B1 of this section shall be without charge to the owner. Thereafter,
each additional reinspection shall be at a cost of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
hour per inspector, based on the number of inspector hours required to make
said inspections and prepare the required report. The minimum charge for any
reinspection shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-15: OWNER LIABILITY:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
provision of this chapter by any officer, director, manager, trustee, employer,
agent or managing agent of any owner shall be deemed to be the act of such
owner, and such owner shall be punishable in the same manner as if such act or
omission had been done or omitted by the owner personally. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-
2014)
4-9-16: ENFORCEMENT COSTS:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any licensee has
violated any provision(s) of this chapter, such court shall award to the
village all of the village's costs related to the enforcement of this chapter
including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney fees, village inspector
costs and administrative costs.
   B.   In the event any court fails or refuses to award the village all of its
costs as provided in subsection A of this section, such unpaid costs shall
constitute an additional license fee which shall be due and payable prior to
the renewal of any license for the multiple-family dwelling in question. Such
additional license fee shall be in addition to the license fee otherwise
required by the provisions of section
4-9-4 of this chapter. No license shall be renewed until such time as all costs
provided by this section have been paid. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
4-9-17: PENALTY:
In addition to any and all penalties provided in this chapter, any person found
to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the general
penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 14-02, 4-14-2014)
CHAPTER 10
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-10-1: Itinerant Performers
4-10-2: Garage And Rummage Sales
4-10-3: Junk Dealers And Junkyards
4-10-4: Mobile Offices
4-10-5: Vehicle Storage Areas
4-10-6: Truck Parking Lots, Nonresidential
4-10-1: ITINERANT PERFORMERS:
No person shall use or perform, with any expectation of payment, in any of the
streets or public places in the village before eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. or
after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. of each day. This section shall not apply to
any band or music or organized musical society engaged in serenading or in any
civic or military parade. (1985 Code § 3-7-1; amd. 2016 Code)
4-10-2: GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES:
Garage and rummage sales are hereby prohibited, except under the following
conditions:
   A.   Permit Required: Applications for permits to conduct garage and rummage
sales shall be made to the village police department. If, after investigation
and consultation with the building inspector, the police department is
satisfied that the sale conforms with the conditions set forth in this section,
then said permit shall issue without fee. Said permits shall be signed by the
chief of police. (1985 Code § 3-7-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Qualifications For Sale; Number Allowed: Every owner or occupant who
has owned or occupied a dwelling unit for more than one year may conduct one
garage sale in any calendar year.
   C.   Merchandise Sold: Such sale shall be limited to the sale of household
goods, household furnishings, clothing and personal effects which are presently
owned by the owner or occupant and which have been used by him or his immediate
family in the dwelling unit located on the premises on which said sale is to be
conducted.
   D.   Period Of Sale: Such sale shall be conducted for a period not exceeding
three (3) consecutive days.
   E.   Hours: Sales are limited between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of any day of the week. (1985 Code § 3-7-2)
   F.   Obstruction Of Public Ways: No public sidewalk, parkway, street or
driveway located in a parkway shall be obstructed by articles being sold. All
such articles being sold shall be confined in the immediate vicinity of the
premises where the sale is to be held. (1985 Code § 3-7-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   Parking: Persons holding the sale shall make proper assurances to the
police of the observance of the parking and other vehicle restrictions of this
code and other village ordinances and, if necessary, provide adequate help to
instruct prospective purchasers as to proper parking spaces. (1985 Code § 3-7-
2)
   H.   Advertising: Directory signs and other signs advertising the sale and
the location thereof, except on the premises where the sale is to be held, are
prohibited. Signs advertising the sale may not exceed two hundred eighty (280)
square inches in area and may not be illuminated. Signs may not be displayed
more than three (3) days prior to the date of the sale and are to be removed at
the final sale hour on the last permitted day of the sale. (1985 Code § 3-7-2;
amd. 2016 Code)
   I.   Purchase For Resale Prohibited: Items purchased by the owner or
occupant for resale are hereby prohibited. (1985 Code § 3-7-2)
4-10-3: JUNK DEALERS AND JUNKYARDS:
   A.   Number Of Licenses: Licenses for junk dealers and junkyards (hereby
classified as the same business or occupation) shall be restricted to two (2)
licenses within the village. (1985 Code § 3-7-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Fence Regulations: Premises, except a completely enclosed building,
used for the purpose of storing or handling junk shall be surrounded by a fence
eight feet (8') in height, and none of the junk shall be stored or piled higher
than said fence.
   C.   Storage Requirements: Boxes, barrels, bricks, scrap iron, paper,
secondhand metal, scrap metal, bottles, bags, tires, glass, wire and articles
of junk of every nature and description, not inside a completely enclosed
building, shall be stored or piled on open racks that are elevated not less
than eighteen inches (18") above the ground. Such articles shall be evenly
piled or stacked. (1985 Code § 3-7-4)
4-10-4: MOBILE OFFICES:
   A.   Definitions:
   MOBILE OFFICE: A factory designed structure for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on a flatbed trailer or on wheels
temporarily or permanently attached to its frame from the place of its
construction to the location or subsequent locations at which it is intended to
be situated.
   PERMANENT HABITATION: Any period of time longer than one month on any parcel
of land. (Ord. 86-9, 6-9-1986)
   B.   Location And Condition:
      1.   There shall be no mobile offices within four hundred feet (400') of
a sewer or village water facility except in a mobile home park and except for
construction purposes. Construction offices shall be for a six (6) month
maximum duration, reviewable if construction is not complete. (Ord. 86-9, 6-9-
1986; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Mobile offices located more than four hundred feet (400') from any
sewer or village water facility or public facility shall be permitted. Chemical
sanitary facilities shall be allowed. These premises will be open for
inspection by the official designated by the village at any time. (Ord. 86-9,
6-9-1986)
   C.   License Fee: The annual business license and inspection fee for mobile
offices pursuant to subsection B of this section shall be as provided in
section
4-1A-1 of this title. (Ord. 86-9, 6-9-1986; amd. 2016 Code)
4-10-5: VEHICLE STORAGE AREAS:
   A.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "vehicle storage area" shall
mean an area where new or used unlicensed vehicles are stored. Such storage
shall constitute a business on the part of the owner or operator of the vehicle
storage area.
   B.   License Required; Fee: The owner or operator shall be required to
obtain a village business license pursuant to section
4-1-4 of this title and in accordance with the following schedule. No more than
two hundred (200) vehicles are permitted at any one time.
 
1 - 100   $ 500.00
101 - 200 1,000.00
 
(Ord. 86-9, 6-9-1986)
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall subject the owner or
operator of the vehicle storage area to a fine in the amount of twenty dollars
($20.00) per vehicle per day. (Ord. 86-9, 6-9-1986; amd. 2016 Code)
4-10-6: TRUCK PARKING LOTS, NONRESIDENTIAL:
   A.   License Required; Fee: Any person who, for consideration, leases the
use of his land for the parking of more than two (2) motor vehicles having
class B or larger plate shall be deemed to be conducting a business as a truck
parking lot and shall require a village business license pursuant to section
4-1-4 of this title and in accordance with the following schedule:
 
1 - 100   $ 500.00
101 - 200 1,000.00
 
(Ord. 86-9, 6-9-1986)
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall subject the owner or
operator of the truck parking lot to a fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00)
for each day said owner or operator remains in violation. (Ord. 86-9, 6-9-1986;
amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 11
GUN SHOPS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Intent
4-11-2: Administration Of Gun Shops
4-11-3: Recordkeeping
4-11-4: Compliance Inspections
4-11-5: Intergovernmental Agreement
4-11-6: Penalties
4-11-1: INTENT:
The legislative intent of this chapter is to provide as much legal protection
from the unlawful distribution and use of firearms as allowed by law to a
municipal government. Fully acknowledging a citizen's Second Amendment rights,
the Concealed Carry laws of our State and not intending to impinge on a
citizen's constitutional rights or the right to engage in a lawful business,
the Village's Corporate Authorities enact this chapter to help by locally
enforcing Federal and State laws on the sale of firearms. (Ord. 16-04, 2-8-
2016)
4-11-2: ADMINISTRATION OF GUN SHOPS:
The Village acknowledges the need for strict and effective measures to minimize
firearms from being used in crimes. As a home-rule municipality, the Village
can only pass and enforce legislation as authorized by the Illinois
Constitution, Statutes of the State and case law as decided by State and
Federal courts. The regulation of gun shops is administered by the Federal ATF.
   A.   The Village desires to help the appropriate governmental authorities by
greater monitoring of the sale of firearms within the corporate boundaries of
the Village.
   B.   The Village desires to prevent illegal traffickers by helping gun shops
within its jurisdiction to prevent the sales of firearms to straw purchasers
(purchasers who legally can purchase firearms but intend to divert the firearms
to those who are not legally authorized to purchase, carry or possess a
firearm).
   C.   The President and the Board of Trustees will implement the terms of
this chapter which strikes a balance between a lawfully operated business and a
recognition that the product being sold requires additional scrutiny for the
protection of the public safety and welfare. (Ord. 16-04, 2-8-2016)
4-11-3: RECORDKEEPING:
It shall be the responsibility of the gun shop to keep hard copies of all
Federal Form 4473 records of the following information:
   A.   All trace information requests received from the ATF for FTIP requests
and any other Cook County Sheriff or Village Police Department requests.
   B.   A record of all persons who purchase more than one firearm within a
twelve (12) month period. A separate record is not a requirement; however, a
master list which includes multiple gun purchasers is sufficient. Only a record
of purchasers of firearms at the gun shop in Hodgkins is required.
   C.   All paper or electronic records or documents, including any forms
filled out by prospective firearms purchasers, shall be tendered to the
Hodgkins Police Department within forty eight (48) hours of the attempted
purchase, or sooner if requested, in the event the potential purchaser appears
not to be a valid or lawful purchaser as determined by the gun shop dealer. The
records do not have to be kept electronically; however they must be kept in a
manner that can be transmitted by fax or e-mail.
   D.   All records shall be kept for a minimum of five (5) years. (Ord. 16-04,
2-8-2016)
4-11-4: COMPLIANCE INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Currently, firearm dealers may be inspected yearly by agents from the
ATF. No other inspections are required by Illinois or Federal authorities. The
Village of Hodgkins and the Cook County Sheriff, working collectively, will
conduct random inspections of any gun shops in the Village, but no more than
twice per year, collectively. These inspections will not interfere with the
regular operation of the business and will address the following:
      1.   Anti-Theft Safety Plan: Inspection of an anti-theft safety plan
which shall include exterior lighting around the premises; surveillance video
cameras, as generally used in businesses and to be used by the gun shop in the
Village (including point-of- sale) (the video shall be maintained for a minimum
of 30 days); alarm systems; safe storage of firearms and fire hazard
compliance, as may be required by the Municipality.
      2.   Internal Training: Inspection of internal training procedures and
firearm inventory audits.
         a.   Each employee must hold a valid FOID card and have been processed
with a background check.
         b.   Maintain a computerized, alphabetical, electronic listing of all
gun sales where the gun was later traced, and maintain a DO NOT SELL list.
         c.   Keep an internal audit of all firearms and report any loss or
discrepancy to the Village Police Department within forty eight (48) hours of
discovering the loss or discrepancy.
         d.   Maintain a mandatory training regimen for all employees
including, but not limited to, straw purchasing.
      3.   Signage:
         a.   At point of purchase there shall be displayed a clearly visible
sign indicating the illegality of acting as a straw buyer for another person.
      4.   Commission:
         a.   A commission structure incentive program shall not be used in the
sale of firearms. (Ord. 16-04, 2-8-2016)
4-11-5: INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
The Village and Cook County Sheriff will enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) specifying that enforcement of this chapter is by the Village
of Hodgkins, in collaboration with the Cook County Sheriff. Only the Village of
Hodgkins may enforce the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 16-04, 2-8-2016)
4-11-6: PENALTIES:
If there are multiple (more than 2) willful violations of any or all of the
items specified within a consecutive twelve (12) month period the Village
President may suspend or fine the business license of the gun shop following a
hearing as provided by this Code. After the first violation, there may be an
additional, random inspection made during that calendar year in addition to the
other inspections as set forth in this chapter. The President may consult with
the Cook County Sheriff and any other appropriate law enforcement authorities
prior to imposing any penalty. The holder of the business license is entitled
to service of process of the charges, and to a hearing not more than five (5)
days from service of the charges. (Ord. 16-04, 2-8-2016)
CHAPTER 12
MOBILE FOOD UNITS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Definition
4-12-2: License Procedures, Fees And Regulations
4-12-3: General Operation Prohibited
4-12-4: Certificate Of Inspection
4-12-5: Duties
4-12-1: DEFINITION:
MOBILE FOOD UNIT: Any food service establishment or vehicle from which food is
served without a fixed location and which is capable of being readily moved
from location to location. This term does not include a food service
establishment or vehicle which serves only ice cream products. (Ord. 21-05, 5-
20-2021)
4-12-2: LICENSE PROCEDURES, FEES AND REGULATIONS:
The license procedures and fees for mobile food units shall be as required in
Chapter 1 and thereafter of this title. Further, the regulations contained in
this article shall be in addition to and shall not supersede, the regulations
contained in said Chapter 1 and thereafter of this title. (Ord. 21-05, 5-20-
2021)
4-12-3: GENERAL OPERATION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or otherwise distribute food from a mobile food
unit on the public streets and way of the Village. The distribution of food by
mobile units shall be limited to off-street premises, such as construction
sites, industrial or other commercial areas. Written permission from the owner
or person in charge of such premises shall be obtained prior to the
distribution of food from a mobile food unit. (Ord. 21-05, 5-20-2021)
4-12-4: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION:
All mobile food units are required to obtain and display a current certificate
of inspection from the Cook County Department of Public Health. (Ord. 21-05, 5-
20-2021)
4-12-5: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to also inspect all mobile
food units. The method and frequency of such inspections shall be as deemed
necessary by the Code Enforcement Officer. (Ord. 21-05, 5-20-2021)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH AND SAFETY ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Health Officer
5-1-2: Vital Statistics Records
5-1-3: Fire Protection
5-1-4: Violations; Penalties
5-1-1: HEALTH OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment; Qualifications: The village president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, shall appoint a health officer who shall be a
licensed healthcare professional and who shall serve at the pleasure of the
village president. (Ord. 97-6, 3-10-1997)
   B.   Conservator Of The Peace: The health officer is hereby appointed a
conservator of the peace of the village and shall have the powers as such and
as set forth in state law, and is hereby authorized to enforce all the
provisions of this code and any other ordinances of the village pertaining to
health. (1985 Code § 1-8-6; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Duties; Assistance From Police Officers:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the health officer:
         a.   To enforce and observe all rules, regulations and orders of the
Illinois department of public health and all state laws pertaining to the
preservation of the health of the people within the village.
         b.   To execute and enforce all ordinances of the village relating to
nuisances and public health and sanitation.
         c.   To investigate the existence of any contagious or infectious
disease within the village and to report the same promptly to the village board
and to the department of health of the state of Illinois, and to act without
delay in carrying out such measures for arresting the progress of the same as
either or both of said bodies shall adopt.
         d.   To make all necessary sanitary and health investigations and
inspections within the village.
      2.   The village police officers shall assist the health officer in the
performance of his duties when called upon by said health officer or by the
village president or board of trustees or any member thereof.
   D.   Deputy Health Officer: To assist the health officer or in the absence
of one or failure to appoint, a deputy health officer may be appointed in like
manner, who shall be versed in medical care, and who shall perform similar
duties to those prescribed for the health officer.
   E.   Compensation: The health officer and deputy health officer shall
receive, as compensation for their services, amounts to be fixed by the village
board from time to time. If the health officer or deputy health officer is a
village trustee, there shall be no additional compensation for this office.
(1985 Code § 4-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-2: VITAL STATISTICS RECORDS:
   A.   Registrar Of Vital Statistics: The village clerk shall be the local
registrar for the purpose of recording vital statistics, and he shall be
governed by 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes, public health. Said local registrar
shall cooperate with the Cook County department of public health and shall be
responsible for the issuance of permits for the burial or removal of bodies.
   B.   Deputy Registrar: The local registrar shall appoint a deputy to be
known as the deputy local registrar who shall act in case of the local
registrar's absence, illness or disability.
   C.   Birth Reports: It shall be the duty of every physician or midwife who
attends the birth of a child, to report the same to the local registrar within
thirty (30) days from the date of such birth. Such reports shall be made in
writing on blank forms to be furnished by the registrar and shall give the name
and date of birth of such child and such other information as the registrar
shall require. (1985 Code § 4-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-3: FIRE PROTECTION:
The prevention of fires and firefighting are under the jurisdiction of the
Pleasant View fire protection district, except as may be modified herein. (1985
Code § 4-1-3)
5-1-4: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty; Citation:
      1.   Any person who violates any provision of this title, unless a
different penalty is provided under another section of this title, shall be
subject to the penalty provisions and citation procedures set out in section 1-
4-4 of this code.
      2.   The health officer or deputy health officer is hereby authorized to
follow the citation procedures, including the fines therein enumerated, for any
violation of any provision of this code or other ordinances heretofore enacted
or hereafter enacted, the violation of which may affect the public health of
the village.
   B.   Revocation Of License: The village president may, upon the
certification of a health officer that a business has violated the provisions
of this title and that the health of the public is being endangered by the
maintenance or conduct of said business, revoke any license given to said
business under any provisions of this code or any other ordinances of the
village. The revocation procedures set forth in section
4-1-9 of this code shall be applicable herein, including notice procedures.
   C.   Closing Premises: The health officer or deputy health officer may close
any premises when, in his judgment, the public health and safety are
jeopardized. The situation of fact as determined by him is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the premises shall remain closed until the public
health hazard is removed or corrected and the nuisance abated. To effect these
purposes, he may give notices to correct the same within a definite period of
time before closing the premises. In the event the village corrects the
violation, the cost of the same shall be reimbursed to the village by the
owner, lessor, lessee, occupant or one in possession of the premises, and the
village shall have a lien as provided for in state law. (1985 Code § 4-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Open Burning
5-2-1-1: Recreational Burning And Cooking Outdoors
5-2-2: Air Pollution Control
5-2-3: Weeds, Garbage And Debris
5-2-4: Junk Storage And Accumulation
5-2-1: OPEN BURNING:
   A.   No person shall burn any standing hay or grass, nor set fire to nor
burn any leaves or other combustible material in any park or public way or
grounds.
   B.   No person shall burn leaves or other combustible material, or build any
bonfire upon any brick, asphalt or block pavement in any street or alley nor in
or upon any street or alley.
   C.   No person shall burn or set fire to any combustible material in any
open fire on public or private property.
   D.   No garbage, manure, leaves, refuse, waste, rubbish, paper, wood or
combustible material shall be burned in the open or in any container. The
burning of combustible material other than garbage, manure and materials which
produce offensive odors is permissible in a commercial incinerator designed for
that purpose, and only in accordance with federal and state EPA rules and
regulations. (1985 Code § 4-2-1)
5-2-1-1: RECREATIONAL BURNING AND COOKING OUTDOORS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
   DENSE SMOKE: Smoke with a degree of density of number 3 on the Ringelmann
smoke chart, or greater, for more than six (6) minutes in any one hour, whether
such period of time is consecutive or not.
   FIRE RING: A construction or device used to contain fires and prevent them
from spreading into a wildfire.
   GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food or food products.
   OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
   OUTDOOR FIREPLACE: A device designed to be used for recreational burning
which is portable or permanently affixed to the ground and is located outside
of a structure or building.
   RECREATIONAL BURNING: Fires for the express purpose of cooking food for
human consumption contained inside grills, charcoal burners, or the like; fires
within a dry stacked stone, masonry, or metal fire pit/ring, or commercially
manufactured portable fireplaces.
   REFUSE: Any discarded matter including, but not limited to, garbage,
sweepings, landscape waste, paper, cardboard, tin cans, ashes, bottles and/or
similar matter.
   SEASONED LOGS: Logs that are aged or dried.
   YARD WASTE: Accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs, and other materials generated as the result of lawn care.
   B.   Conditions Of Burning: Recreational burning shall be permitted only
under the following conditions:
      1.   An outdoor fireplace or fire ring shall be placed at a safe and
reasonable distance from any building, structure, or vehicle, or from any
container or other source of flammable liquids or vapors and shall not be
placed on any combustible surface.
      2.   An outdoor fireplace or fire ring shall only be fueled by seasoned
logs or its equal.
      3.   A water source or other provisions for extinguishing the fire shall
be immediately accessible and attended constantly by a person eighteen (18)
years of age or older at all times when the outdoor fireplace or fire ring is
in use.
      4.   The burning of any refuse, yard waste or any other combustible
material in an outdoor fireplace or fire ring is prohibited.
      5.   An outdoor or portable fireplace shall not be used in such a manner
as to emit dense smoke, or objectionable smoke/odors, or when atmospheric
conditions or other circumstances make such fires hazardous.
   C.   Exemptions: Charcoal grills, burners or like devices used solely for
the cooking of food are allowed and are not subject to the provisions contained
in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 13-11, 9-9-2013)
5-2-2: AIR POLLUTION CONTROL:
   A.   Contaminant Matter: The escape or emission into the open air of
noxious, nauseous or offensive contaminant matter, or any one or more of them,
is hereby declared to be unlawful and a nuisance. No person shall cause or
allow the escape or emission into the open air of such noxious, nauseous or
offensive contaminant matter.
   B.   Noxious Gases; Nauseous Gases, Odors And Offensive Smells: The escape
or emission into the open air of noxious gases or nauseous gases or nauseous
odors or offensive smells, or any one or more of them, is hereby declared to be
a nuisance. No person shall cause or allow the escape or emission into the open
air of any of such noxious gases, nauseous gases, nauseous odors or offensive
smells.
   C.   Smoke Emissions: It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or allow
to emit or discharge smoke or contaminant matter into the atmosphere, the
appearance, density or shade of which is number 3 or darker on the Ringelmann
chart as published and described in the U.S. bureau of mines "Information
Circular No. 8333", which chart shall be the standard for estimating the light
obscurity and determining the appearance, density or shade of smoke. (1985 Code
§ 4-2-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Illinois Smoke Free Air Act Adopted: The Illinois smoke free air act,
410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/1 et seq., is hereby adopted by reference as
if fully set out at length herein. Copies of the act are on file in the office
of the village clerk for public use and inspection. (2016 Code)
5-2-3: WEEDS, GARBAGE AND DEBRIS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or occupant, or any agent,
servant, representative or employee of such owner, lessee or occupant, having
control of any lot or part of a lot to: (1985 Code § 4-2-3)
      1.   Weeds:
         a.   Within two hundred feet (200') of any building occupied as a
private residence or place of business, allow or maintain on any such lot or
part thereof any growth of weeds to a height in excess of ten inches (10").
(Ord. 93-13, 7-12-1993)
         b.   Allow the growth of noxious weeds, as defined in state law, to
any height.
      2.   Garbage And Debris: Allow garbage and debris to remain thereon or
allow the accumulation of garbage or debris in any public alley, sidewalk,
parkway or street contiguous thereto. (1985 Code § 4-2-3)
      3.   Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicles: Allow an abandoned, wrecked or
partially wrecked motor vehicle to remain thereon, except on lots duly licensed
as motor vehicle repair shops.
      4.   Diseased Dutch Elm Trees: Allow a diseased Dutch elm tree to remain
on the premises.
   B.   It shall be the duty of every owner to cut such weeds and to remove the
garbage, debris and abandoned, wrecked or partially wrecked vehicles at his own
expense. In the event said owner refuses or neglects to cut said weeds or
remove the garbage, debris and vehicles as herein provided, the village may
provide for the cutting or removal of the same and collect the reasonable costs
thereof from the owner after service of a notice on the person who refuses or
neglects to do so. The notice of the time to remove or correct shall depend on
the hazard to the health or danger to the public but in no case shall exceed
five (5) days. The village shall file a lien upon the real estate affected
which shall include the cost, plus interest at five percent (5%) per annum from
the date said cost was incurred, together with the cost of recording. The lien
may be enforced by proceeding to foreclose as in the case of mortgages or
mechanics' liens. Suit to foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two (2)
years after date of the filing of the lien. (1985 Code § 4-2-3; amd. 2016 Code)
5-2-4: JUNK STORAGE AND ACCUMULATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles
or materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity
to any school, church, public park, public grounds, business building or
residence without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage of
the same. The storing or accumulating of unsightly material of any kind
including, but not limited to, garbage, metals, junk of every kind and
character, nonfunctioning motor vehicles and trash of every kind and nature on
any property or lot within the village is hereby prohibited. (1985 Code § 4-2-
4)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, his manager or agent, or the
lessor, lessee or occupant of any premises to discard, permit or keep on the
premises any discarded article, vehicle, or abandoned article or vehicle, or
material of any kind or description. Any motor vehicle which remains on the
premises, other than a duly licensed garage, terminal or automobile sales
agency, for more than five (5) days without a license, or without being moved,
shall be presumed to be discarded and abandoned and summarily removed or towed
away at the expense of the owner of the vehicle, his manager or agent, or the
lessor or lessee, or occupant of the premises. (1985 Code § 4-2-4; amd. 2016
Code)
   C.   The storing or accumulation of any of the aforesaid which may or can
become breeding grounds or harborage for or attraction to insects, rodents, or
other possible disease carrying animals on any property or lot within the
village is prohibited. In the extermination of rats, charging the cost thereof
to the owner, occupant or person interested in the premises shall be controlled
by state law. (1985 Code § 4-2-4)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Nuisances Prohibited
5-3-2: Nuisances Enumerated
5-3-3: Abatement
5-3-4: Penalties
5-3-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to commit any offense which is a nuisance according to the
common law of the land, or made such by any provision of this code or other
village ordinances, or by the statutes of the state. (1985 Code § 4-3-1)
5-3-2: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person, within the limits of the
village, to do any of the following:
   A.   Common Law Nuisances: Commit any offense which is a nuisance according
to the common law of the land, or made such by the statutes of the state. (1985
Code § 4-3-2)
   B.   Nuisances Enumerated In State Law: All those nuisances described in 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/47-5, which section is herein incorporated by
reference and made a part hereof. (1985 Code § 4-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Violation Of Village Regulations: Violate any provision of the building
code, fire code or zoning regulations or allow any premises to be in a
condition declared by the village president to be a nuisance. (1985 Code § 4-3-
2)
   D.   Building Operations: To conduct any building operations between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.; or to operate
any steam shovels, pneumatic hammers, steam or electric hoists or other
apparatus, the use of which is attended with loud or unusual noise, in any
block in which more than half of the buildings on either side of the street are
used exclusively for residence purposes.
   E.   Animal Carcasses, Slops, Etc.:
      1.   Cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or vegetable matter,
slops, swill, mud, garbage, filth, stable drippings, offal or other similar
substance of any kind to be collected or deposited or to remain in any place in
the village to the prejudice of others. (1985 Code § 4-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Permit any slops, swill, garbage, stable drippings, offal, filth,
refuse, animal or vegetable matter, which is liable to become putrid or
offensive or injurious to health, to remain on any premises used or occupied by
said person, for a longer period than twelve (12) hours at a time.
   F.   Food Vendors Using Containers: The custom among merchants dealing in
ice cream, ices, soda waters and other soft drinks of delivering at the curb,
in the street or upon the sidewalks or roadways their merchandise in paper
cups, cartons, plates or other containers has become a nuisance and a menace to
pedestrians and persons traveling on the roadway by reason of the depositing of
such cups, cartons, plates or other containers on the sidewalks and streets,
and the delivery of such commodities in containers upon the public streets
anywhere is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace.
   G.   Contaminating Drinking Water: Corrupt or render unwholesome or impure
the water of any drinking hydrant, spring, stream, pond or lake, to the injury
and prejudice of others. (1985 Code § 4-3-2)
   H.   Premises In Filthy Condition: Keep or suffer to be kept in a foul,
offensive, nauseous or filthy condition, any chicken coop, cow house, stable,
cellar, vault, drain, privy, sewer or sink upon any premises belonging to or
occupied by said person, or any railroad car, building, mobile home unit, yard,
grounds and premises belonging to or occupied by said person. (1985 Code § 4-3-
2; amd. 2016 Code)
   I.   Litter: Throw or drop any cup, plate or container upon a sidewalk,
crosswalk, roadway or any part of any public street.
   J.   Unwholesome Business:
      1.   Generally: To establish, maintain and carry on any offensive or
unwholesome business within the limits of the village or within one mile of the
limits thereof.
      2.   Packinghouses, Etc.: Locate and carry on any packinghouses,
renderies, tallow chandleries, glue and bone factories, soap factories and
tanneries within the limits of the village and within the distance of one mile
outside the village limits.
      3.   Building Used For Offensive Business: Erect, continue or use any
building or other place for the exercise of any trade, employment or
manufacture which, by occasion of noxious exhalations, offensive smells or
otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the health of individuals or of the
public.
   K.   Night Soil; Dead Animals: Deposit any night soil, dead animal or other
filthy, offensive or noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway,
park or other place.
   L.   Noise: For any person owning or in possession, charge or control of any
building or premises to use the same, or permit the use of the same, or rent
the same to be used for any business or employment, or for any purpose of
pleasure or recreation, if such use shall, from its noise or boisterous nature,
disturb or destroy the peace of the neighborhood in which such building or
premises is situated, or be dangerous or detrimental to health.
   M.   Obstructing Public Ways: Obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alleys and commons.
   N.   Obstructing Watercourses; Stagnant Water:
      1.   Obstruct any watercourse, ravine or gutter so as to cause water to
stagnate therein, or to permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any
premises to the prejudice of others.
      2.   Allow water to accumulate and remain in a pond or ponds either
wholly or partly within the limits of any private property for a period of more
than ten (10) consecutive days. For the purpose of this subsection, the term
"pond" shall be considered to mean any exposed surface of water not less than
one hundred (100) square feet in area which has accumulated either by natural
or artificial means in any depression or connected series of depressions of
excavation, whether existing naturally or created artificially.
   O.   Offensive Animal Pens: Own, use or keep any yard, pen, place, railroad
car or premises, in or upon which cattle or other animals shall be confined or
kept, so as to be offensive to those residing in the vicinity, or to an
annoyance to others.
   P.   Offensive Smells: To negligently conduct any business or use any
premises as to create such an offensive smell as may taint the air and render
it unwholesome or disagreeable in the neighborhood.
   Q.   Privies: Erect or maintain any privy within the village.
   R.   Slaughtering Animals: Slaughter or kill any cattle, hogs or sheep, or
keep, maintain or use in the village any house or place in which the business
of slaughtering any of said animals may be carried on.
   S.   Smoke Emissions: Allow or permit any dense smoke to come or be emitted
from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner or other agency within the limits of
the village. Said nuisance may be summarily abated by the village president or
health officer, or by anyone whom they or either of them may authorize for such
purpose. Such abatement may be in addition to the fine provided for violation
of this chapter.
   T.   Accumulation Of Grass, Leaves And Combustibles: Cause or suffer grass,
leaves, underbrush or other combustible matter to be collected, deposited or
remain on the premises in such quantities and in such condition as to
materially increase the danger to property of others from forest or other
fires.
   U.   Throwing Offal In Watercourse: Throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown
or deposited, any offal or other offensive matter, or the carcass of any animal
in any watercourse, pond, spring or well within the limits of the village.
   V.   Poplar And Cottonwood Trees: Permit the growth upon any premises of any
poplar or cottonwood trees defined as follows:
A "poplar tree" is any of a genus of slender, quick growing salicaceous trees
also known as Populus. A "cottonwood tree" is a tree of the poplar group with a
cottony comma investing the seeds, also known as Populus balsamifera.
   W.   Unsightly Yards: Permit or maintain an unsightly yard or premises where
there is an accumulation or deposit of any vehicles, equipment, material of any
nature, waste or earth; or maintain an unsightly yard or area where junk,
wrecked or disabled automobiles, trucks, equipment or other such matter is
allowed to accumulate. (1985 Code § 4-3-2)
5-3-3: ABATEMENT:
Whenever any nuisance exists or shall be found on any premises within the
village, whether or not such nuisance is one specifically recognized by statute
or by this code, the village president is hereby authorized, in his discretion,
to cause it to be summarily abated in such manner as he may direct, and at the
expense of the party permitting or maintaining the nuisance. Statement of the
nuisance and abatement required shall be directed in writing by the village
president to the last known business or residence of the person owning or
maintaining the source of the nuisance. The abatement must take place within
five (5) days of notice or earlier in the event an emergency exists, when such
nuisance is an imminent threat to the health, safety or welfare of the
citizenry. The notice provided herein may be waived by the village president
wherein the nuisance must be abated immediately either by the person charged or
by the village. If the village shall perform the abatement either under the
emergency manner stated herein or if the person charged fails to abate within
the five (5) day period, the village shall be reimbursed for all its costs
either by the person charged with the nuisance or the owner of the property or
device where the nuisance emanated. (1985 Code § 4-3-3; amd. 2016 Code)
5-3-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00),
and if the offender shall fail to abate the nuisance, then, and in such case,
any offender shall be held to a penalty of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every
day the nuisance shall remain in existence after notice to abate same has been
given. (1985 Code § 4-3-4; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Collection And Removal Requirements
5-4-3: Containers
5-4-4: Permit To Dump Refuse
5-4-5: Prohibited Accumulations And Disposal
5-4-6: Building Construction
5-4-7: Offensive, Unwholesome Materials
5-4-8: Sanitary Landfills Prohibited
5-4-9: Nuisance Declared; Abatement And Enforcement
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall be
understood as having the following meanings:
   ASHES: All ashes of paper, wood, coal and coke; and the residue resulting
from the combustion of any material or substance, soot, cinders, slag or
charcoal.
   BUSINESS: Any retail or wholesale establishment, industry, factory or
establishment of any kind not specifically defined herein.
   GARBAGE: Refuse; organic matter; fish, animal and vegetable wastes or fats;
and rejected or waste household food, offal, swill or carrion.
   LIVING UNIT: An apartment used as a single housekeeping unit for one family,
or used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, by one or more persons. The
term includes a trailer or mobile home.
   MANURE: The excrement of all domestic animals and fowl; stable bedding; and
all hay, straw, shavings, grass and weeds, or leaves which have been used for
stable or fowl house bedding.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING: A building or part of a building designed, intended or
used as an apartment house, apartment hotel, tenement house or other use in
which there is more than one dwelling.
   OCCUPATIONAL UNIT: A building or part of a building designed, intended or
used for any purpose other than a single dwelling or multiple dwelling.
   OWNER: Any person, partnership, corporation, syndicate, trustee or person
paying the last year's general real estate taxes, who has ownership or apparent
ownership of record. In cases of land trust, the owners shall be the
beneficiaries or any such person who shall have an interest therein and, as
such, it shall be the duty of such trustee to disclose the beneficiaries and
owners as provided in state law.
   REFUSE: All garbage; ashes; and all other rejected matter, rubbish, dust and
miscellaneous waste, but not including manure or discarded construction or
building material.
   SINGLE DWELLING: A building designed as, or intended for, or used as a
residence for a single family, or for a group of persons other than a single
family, which group does not exceed five (5) in number.
   TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME: Any vehicle or similar portable structure used or so
constructed as to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets
or highways and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place
for one or more persons; provided, that any such structure resting in whole on
a permanent foundation with wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed, shall
be construed as a "trailer" or "mobile home". (1985 Code § 4-4-1)
5-4-2: COLLECTION AND REMOVAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Dwellings And Businesses:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owner, his manager or agent, or the
lessor, lessee or occupant of every single and multiple dwelling, occupational
or living unit, or business with less than ninety six (96) gallons of refuse,
to cause to be removed, at his own cost and expense, at least once each week,
all refuse produced therein; except, that in trailers or mobile homes, refuse
containers shall be emptied at least every three (3) days.
      2.   In the case of a business which produces more than ninety six (96)
gallons of refuse per week, it shall be the duty of the occupant to cause to be
removed, at his own expense and cost, at least twice each week, all refuse
produced therein.
   B.   Food Establishments: Every person owning or controlling any hotel,
restaurant, cafe or retail food establishment shall cause all garbage to be
placed in sanitary refuse containers, and shall cause all substances deposited
in such containers to be removed daily from his premises and to be disposed of.
Such person shall cause the removal and disposition of such substances at his
own expense and in accordance with the provisions of this code and the rules or
regulations of the building inspector relating to the disposition and removal
of such substances.
   C.   Removal By Collector Or Scavenger 1 : It shall be unlawful for any
person other than a village refuse collector or a private scavenger licensed by
the village to remove, displace, uncover or otherwise disturb any refuse
container or the contents thereof when placed on location as provided in
subsection
5-4-3B of this chapter.
   D.   Removal Before Vacation Of Premises: It shall be the duty of every
person occupying or controlling any lot, building or structure, or any portion
thereof, to remove or cause to be removed therefrom, before vacating the same,
all garbage, ashes, miscellaneous waste and manure. (1985 Code § 4-4-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See article A of this chapter.
5-4-3: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Containers Required:
      1.   Single Dwellings: To deposit or remove refuse, the occupant of every
single dwelling shall provide and maintain in good condition and repair not
less than two (2) standard refuse containers.
      2.   Multiple Dwellings:
         a.   It shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, lessor or occupant,
his manager or agent, of every multiple dwelling to provide and maintain, in
good condition and repair, standard refuse containers whose combined capacity
shall be not less than fifteen (15) gallons for each living unit.
         b.   The owner, his manager or agent, or lessee or lessor of every
multiple dwelling, where the refuse is removed at the owner's expense, shall
provide at least two (2) standard refuse containers for each floor and not less
than two (2) standard refuse containers for every five (5) persons dwelling
therein (owners of two-family dwellings not located on separate floors shall
provide 2 standard refuse containers for each living unit).
         c.   In addition, it shall be the duty of the owner, lessor, lessee,
occupant, manager or agent of every multiple-dwelling unit of three (3) or more
living units to provide and maintain, in good condition and repair, the
following minimum sanitary dumpster indicated for the number of living units or
persons (whichever is greater):
 
Persons Living Or Dwelling Units Sanitary Dumpster Capacity
3       12 or under              1 yard
4 to 6  13 to 27                 11/2 yards
7 to 12 28 to 48                 2 yards
Over 12                         In proportion to the above
 
      3.   Occupational Units: It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
occupational unit to provide and maintain, in good condition and repair, not
less than two (2) standard refuse containers.
      4.   Living Units: It shall be the duty of every occupant of a living
unit to provide at least one standard refuse container for his own use.
      5.   Sanitary Dumpsters: The occupant of every building where refuse is
removed at the occupant's expense shall provide a sufficient number of sanitary
dumpsters for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating between
collections.
      6.   Number Determined By Health Officer: The sufficiency of the number
of refuse containers required shall be the determination of the Health Officer.
(1985 Code § 4-4-3-1)
      7.   Minimum Requirements: The requirements of this subsection are
minimum requirements, and in cases where such minimum is inadequate, additional
refuse containers or dumpsters shall be provided as herein directed to avoid
overflow and spilling. These requirements shall be in addition to the Property
Maintenance Code and the Rental Residential Housing Code adopted in section
9-7-1 of this Code, whichever is more stringent. (1985 Code § 4-4-3-1; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Location: The standard container shall be placed in the following
manner:
      1.   Except for collections, all refuse containers or dumpsters shall be
located on private property concealed as nearly as practical from public view.
      2.   For alley collections, all refuse containers or dumpsters shall be
located at the alley lot line on the premises served so as to be immediately
accessible to refuse collection vehicles. It shall be the duty of the owner,
his manager or agent, or the lessor, lessee or occupant to provide suitable
space at the alley line for such containers. (1985 Code § 4-4-3-1)
      3.   For curb or street collections, all refuse containers or dumpsters
shall be located at the curb or street line (but not on the pavement) not
earlier than five o'clock (5:00) P.M. preceding the designated day of
collection and removed to the private property not later than six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. of such day of refuse collection. The placing of refuse containers
from six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Friday to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Sunday or
from six o'clock (6:00) P.M. preceding a holiday to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on
the day before collection is prohibited. (1985 Code § 4-4-3-1; amd. Ord. 05-18,
6-13-2005)
      4.   No container used for the storage, collection and removal of garbage
or other refuse shall be placed so as to constitute a nuisance to adjacent
property or the occupants thereof.
   C.   Use Requirements And Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the occupant of every single dwelling,
multiple dwelling, living unit or occupational unit, to cause all refuse
produced therein to be deposited in the refuse containers. It shall be unlawful
for any person other than the owner, his manager or agent, or the lessor,
lessee or occupant of the premises served by a refuse container to deposit or
cause to be deposited therein any article or thing whatsoever.
      2.   All refuse which is placed for collection service in or outside of
the building must be kept in standard refuse containers.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any standard
refuse container any article or thing except "refuse" as defined in section
5-4-1 of this chapter.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to cause garbage or refuse to overflow or spill
over refuse containers. It shall be unlawful to remove the cover of or keep
uncovered any refuse container, except for placing garbage or refuse therein or
emptying the same. No scavenger or person removing refuse shall allow any
collectible refuse to spill or remain in the collection area after collection.
(1985 Code § 4-4-3-1)
5-4-4: PERMIT TO DUMP REFUSE:
   A.   No person shall dump or deposit anywhere within the Village, except at
such a place as may be authorized by the Village Board of Trustees by a written
permit, any garbage, ashes, refuse, miscellaneous waste, manure or other
substance that may contain disease carrying germs or be scattered by the wind,
or decompose or become filthy, noxious or unhealthy. Such dumping without a
permit is hereby declared to be a nuisance. It shall also be unlawful to dump
or deposit any waste matter upon private property unless the written consent of
the owner or his authorized agent shall first be obtained and filed with the
building inspector and a permit obtained from the Commissioner.
Whenever application shall have been made for a permit and the written consent
of the owner of the property in question shall have been filed as herein
required, the building inspector shall give notice in writing to the village
president where such dumping is to be done, that such application has been
made. Such application shall then be held in abeyance until the next regular
meeting of the board of trustees. In case action thereon is taken by the board
of trustees, the building inspector shall issue the permit if the dumping
privileges so requested will not constitute a nuisance and the applicant
executes a bond, with good and sufficient sureties approved by the building
inspector, to the village in the penal sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
conditioned that the applicant will comply with the regulations of this code
and the rules and regulations of the building inspector pertaining to the
dumping of the above mentioned substances. Such permit shall not authorize any
person to dump any of the said substances on private property above the street
grade.
   B.   "Refuse", for the purpose of this subsection, is defined as any garbage
or other discarded materials. (1985 Code § 4-4-4)
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, place, leave, dump
or deposit any refuse; junk; waste material; junked, wrecked, abandoned or
disabled vehicles, or any part thereof; or waste byproduct on any premises in
the village without first having secured a permit from the village to do so, or
in violation of section 21 of the environmental protection act 1  or of any
regulation or rule of the state environmental protection agency. (1985 Code §
4-4-4; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessor, lessee or occupant of
any premises to allow or permit any person to abandon, place, leave, dump or
deposit any refuse, junk, waste material, disabled vehicle or waste byproduct
on any premises in the village without a permit.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessor, lessee or occupant of
any premises to permit to remain on the premises or permit the accumulation on
any premises of any such refuse; junk; waste material; junked, wrecked,
abandoned or disabled vehicles, or any part thereof; or waste byproduct dumped
or deposited on the premises without a permit. (1985 Code § 4-4-4)
   C.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
that as allowed by state statute. (2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/21.
5-4-5: PROHIBITED ACCUMULATIONS AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   No person shall throw, cast, deposit, damage, lay, place or scatter
in or upon any public way or any park property or appurtenance thereto any
placard, handbill, pamphlet, circular, book, notice, paper of any kind, coal,
ashes, dust, manure, rubbish, garbage, material, trees, shrubs, refuse matter
or article or thing of any kind.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to dump, deposit or place any garbage,
rubbish, trash, litter or refuse upon real property owned or leased by another
without the consent of the owner, lessee or person in possession of such real
property.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, dump or deposit upon
any public way, or on private property not leased or owned by him or without
the consent of the owner or lessee, any garbage, refuse, container, paper,
waste, glass article, broken glass, nails, tacks, sharp metal objects or other
article or material. It shall be the duty of every owner or person in
possession or control of any motor vehicle, the glass or metal parts from which
are broken and dropped upon any public way, to promptly remove such broken
glass and metal parts and restore the public way to a condition safe for
automotive and pedestrian traffic.
   B.   Dumping Grass Or Rubbish: It shall be unlawful for any person to dump
or deposit, or cause to be dumped or deposited, rubbish, any grass, leaves,
branches, or any other things in the roadway, parkway, sidewalk, walkway or
gutter of any public street in the village, or on private property without the
consent of the owner. For the purpose of this subsection, the term "rubbish"
shall mean and include ashes, garbage, refuse of any kind, tins, bottles, glass
containers, unused food parcels, papers or any other inert material commonly
known as litter. (1985 Code § 4-4-5)
   C.   Windblown Refuse: It shall be unlawful to deposit or leave any refuse
or material in such a place or condition that it can be blown by the wind so as
to be scattered or cause clouds of dust or particles; and it shall be unlawful
to permit the escape of soot, ashes or other solid products or results of
combustion so as to be windblown or scattered. (1985 Code § 4-4-5; amd. 2016
Code)
5-4-6: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Rubbish or discarded building materials shall not be stored nor allowed
to accumulate within a building or in the immediate vicinity, but shall be
removed from the premises as rapidly as practicable. Combustible waste and
rubbish shall be removed at least daily. Dry material or rubbish shall be
wetted down to prevent dust or prevent dust from being blown about. (1985 Code
§ 4-4-6; amd. 2016 Code)
After the foundation is poured and approved, a refuse container shall be
provided, and no construction shall proceed unless such foundation is approved
and said container is provided.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in or conducting in the
village the business of roofing buildings to throw dirt or roofing refuse from
the roof of any building upon any public way or upon adjoining property while
repairing or renewing roofs. Every person engaged in or conducting in the
village the business of roofing buildings shall remove the dirt and roofing
refuse from the roofs by lowering it in buckets or containers, or with ropes,
pulleys or other mechanical devices while repairing or renewing roofs. (1985
Code § 4-4-6)
5-4-7: OFFENSIVE, UNWHOLESOME MATERIALS:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit or
burn, or allow to be dumped, deposited or burned, within the distance of one
mile beyond the corporate limits of the village any garbage, ashes, refuse,
miscellaneous wastes, manure or any other substance that may cause disease,
germs, vermin, or be scattered by the wind, or cause smoke or nauseous gases,
or be decomposed, or become filthy or noxious, cause offensive odors, or be
unhealthful or unwholesome. Any such unlawful acts or the conducting of any
business or establishment doing any such acts is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. (1985 Code § 4-4-7)
   B.   Receiving, Loading Or Depositing Prohibited: No person shall use or
occupy any place for the receipt, loading or dumping of manure, offal, garbage
or any other offensive or nauseous substance.
   C.   Animal Bedding: No person shall place or cause to be placed upon any
public way, or upon the roof of any building, or upon the surface of any lot or
parcel of ground, any straw, hay, shavings or other substance which has been
used as bedding for animals for the purpose of drying such substance or storing
the same. (1985 Code § 4-4-7; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Decaying Animal Matter: It shall be unlawful for any person having the
ownership or control of any animal matter within the village which is in the
process of decay so as to be offensive or dangerous to the public health to
permit the same to remain within the village or within one mile of the limits
thereof while in such condition more than twelve (12) hours after such animal
matter shall have come into such offensive or dangerous condition, whether it
be at an establishment for the rendering or changing the character thereof or
not. (1985 Code § 4-4-7)
   E.   Offensively Saturated Ground: No ground or material filled with
offensive matter or substance that will emit or allow to arise through or from
the same, any offensive smell or deleterious exhalation shall be opened or
turned up, or the surface thereof removed. It shall be unlawful for any owner
or occupant to maintain, use or occupy any saturated ground which emits
offensive smells or is dangerous to health. (1985 Code § 4-4-7; amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-8: SANITARY LANDFILLS PROHIBITED:
Sanitary landfill operations in the village or within the distance of one mile
beyond the corporate limits of the village are prohibited. (1985 Code § 4-4-10;
amd. 2016 Code)
5-4-9: NUISANCE DECLARED; ABATEMENT AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
to be a nuisance and may be summarily removed, abated or prevented. In the
event that such nuisance is removed, abated or prevented at the expense or cost
to the village, then the village may recover the cost or expense of the same in
any proceeding in any court in the state of Illinois.
   B.   The offenses herein enumerated shall not prevent the enforcement of any
of the nuisances provided in chapter 3 of this title, but the offenses
enumerated herein shall be in addition thereto. (1985 Code § 4-4-11)
ARTICLE A. COLLECTORS OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-4A-1: License And Certificate Requirements
5-4A-2: Collection Vehicles
5-4A-3: Noise Control; Hours Of Operation
5-4A-4: Refuse Collection; Location Of Containers
5-4A-5: Dropping Refuse From Vehicles
5-4A-1: LICENSE AND CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Requirements:
      1.   No person shall conduct the business of a scavenger or engage in the
business of picking up "refuse" as defined in section
5-4-1 of this chapter, nor be let out for hire to remove any such refuse,
without first securing a license therefor. The provisions of this section shall
not apply, however, to contractors or any other persons engaged in the building
trades who are removing refuse from building sites in their own vehicles.
      2.   Licenses for scavengers shall be restricted to one license per every
five hundred (500) inhabitants. (1985 Code § 4-4A-1)
   B.   Certificate Of Insurance Requirements:
      1.   As a condition to the issuance of a license under this section, each
applicant shall file a certificate of insurance issued by an insurance carrier
licensed to do business in the state of Illinois that evidences insurance
covering the applicant against public liability and property damage with limits
of liability not less than the following:
         a.   Personal injury:
            (1)   Each person: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
            (2)   Each occurrence: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
         b.   Property damage:
            (1)   Each person: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
            (2)   Each occurrence: One million dollars ($1,000,000.00).
      2.   Each such certificate shall have an endorsement to the effect that
such insurance may not be canceled by the insurer thereof without at least ten
(10) days' prior written notice to the village.
      3.   Further, said certificate of insurance shall include the village of
Hodgkins as additional insured. Each such application shall also contain a
clause that said applicant will indemnify the village for any costs in its
defense of actions arising out of the conduct of the applicant and hold the
village harmless for any damages that may be assessed against the village
pursuant to said action. (Ord. 87-2, 3-9-1987)
5-4A-2: COLLECTION VEHICLES:
   A.   Use Restrictions; Condition: No person owning or controlling any
vehicle used for carrying or transporting any garbage, ashes, miscellaneous
waste or manure shall cause or permit such vehicle when in use for such purpose
to stand or remain before or near any building, structure or premises occupied
by any person; nor shall any person using any such vehicle cause or permit an
unreasonable or unnecessary length of time to occur in and about the loading or
unloading of any such vehicle when in use for such purposes, or cause or permit
an unreasonable or unnecessary length of time to be used in passing along any
public way; nor shall any person cause or permit any such cart or vehicle to be
in a condition needlessly or unnecessarily filthy or offensive.
   B.   Disinfection; Storage Regulations: Any person owning or controlling any
refuse vehicle shall cause all such vehicles, and all implements used in
connection with the loading or unloading thereof, when not in use, to be stored
and kept in such place and in such manner as not to create a nuisance, and
shall cause all such vehicles and implements to be thoroughly disinfected and
put in an inoffensive condition when so stored or not in use. Such vehicles and
implements shall be thoroughly disinfected at least once a week, whether in use
or not, unless the same shall not have been used since the last disinfection
thereof. (1985 Code § 4-4A-2)
5-4A-3: NOISE CONTROL; HOURS OF OPERATION:
The operations and vehicles used for refuse collection shall conform to the
following:
   A.   All used vehicles shall conform to standards for motor vehicles of that
class set forth in the environmental control ordinance of Cook County, article
IX, "noise and vibration control".
   B.   Actual contract hours involved in the pick up of refuse and all other
solid wastes are limited to between the period of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on weekdays. There shall be no pick up on Saturdays or
Sundays, except as provided herein.
   C.   No scavenger truck picking up refuse on the village streets or private
property shall exceed in noise more than seventy (70) decibels, as measured at
a distance of fifty feet (50') from the centerline of travel opposite the
source of the noise under test procedures and instruments adopted in subsection
10-3-5B of this code. (1985 Code § 4-4A-3)
5-4A-4: REFUSE COLLECTION; LOCATION OF CONTAINERS:
   A.   All refuse containers, except plastic bags, shall be thoroughly emptied
and returned to the area where located at the time of collection. No refuse
container shall be located on a public street, roadway or sidewalk.
   B.   No scavenger shall allow any collectible refuse to spill or remain in
the collection area after collection. (1985 Code § 4-4A-4)
5-4A-5: DROPPING REFUSE FROM VEHICLES:
No person owning or controlling any refuse vehicle shall cause or permit any
such vehicle to be so loaded, to be in such defective condition, so out of
repair, of such faulty construction or so improperly driven or managed that any
garbage, ashes, refuse, miscellaneous waste or manure with which such vehicle
is loaded shall drop or fall on any public way or other place. Such vehicle and
any box, can or other receptacle carried thereon or therein, and in which any
of the substances described in this section shall be carried shall be so
constructed as to be strong and practically airtight and watertight so as to
prevent the same from emitting any odor and so as to prevent any part of the
contents or load thereof from falling, leaking or spilling therefrom. It shall
be the duty of every person in possession or control of any such vehicle to
replace, at once onto such vehicle, any part of the contents thereof which
shall or may have fallen, dropped or spilled from such vehicle, or from any box
or receptacle conveyed thereon, upon any public way or other place. (1985 Code
§ 4-4A-5)
CHAPTER 5
RODENT CONTROL
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definition
5-5-2: Ratproofing Required
5-5-3: Preventive Measures
5-5-4: Destruction Of Rats
5-5-5: Enforcement
5-5-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term "ratproofing" shall consist of
closing unnecessary openings with concrete, sheet iron or other types of
material impervious to rats in building foundations and under and around doors,
windows, vents and other places which could provide means of entry for rats in
and under buildings. (1985 Code § 4-5-1)
5-5-2: RATPROOFING REQUIRED:
The owner of any premises upon which buildings are located shall eliminate the
rat harborage from within and under such buildings by some suitable and
customary method. (1985 Code § 4-5-2)
5-5-3: PREVENTIVE MEASURES:
   A.   Clean Premises; Harborage Areas Elevated: All premises, improved or
unimproved, and all open lots, areas, streets, sidewalks and alleys shall be
kept clean and free of all rubbish and material that might serve as harborage
for rats; and all lumber, boxes, barrels and loose iron, scrap metal, auto
bodies, as well as all other material that may be permitted to remain thereon
and that may be used as harborage for rats shall be placed on supports and
elevated from the ground with a clear intervening space of twelve inches (12")
beneath.
   B.   Food Storage: All food products for human or domestic animal
consumption, whether kept for sale or for any purpose, shall be protected so as
to prevent rats from gaining access thereto or coming into contact therewith.
   C.   Garbage Disposal: All garbage, decayed or spoiled vegetables, meats,
cereals, fruits or other similar material unfit for human or domestic animal
consumption, but edible to rats, shall be stored in garbage containers as
required in chapter 4 of this title. (1985 Code § 4-5-3)
5-5-4: DESTRUCTION OF RATS:
   A.   Destruction Required: Whenever rat holes, burrows or any other evidence
of rat infestation is found on any premises or in any building within the
village, it shall be the duty of the owner to use all methods necessary to
destroy the rats or cause the rats to be destroyed. (1985 Code § 4-5-4)
   B.   Cost Of Extermination: The cost of rat extermination shall be charged
to the owner, occupant or person interested in the premises as provided in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-8. (1985 Code § 4-5-4; amd. 2016 Code)
5-5-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever a premises is found to be rat infested or
to be maintained in violation of this chapter, a notice in writing signed by
the health officer shall be served upon the owner. Said notice shall state
wherein such premises has violated this chapter and the requirements for
correction and shall be served on the owner personally or by mail.
   B.   Abatement: It shall be unlawful to maintain a rat harborage. Any owner,
his manager or agent, any lessee, lessor, occupant or person who maintains his
premises or building in violation of the requirements of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of maintaining a rat harborage. The health officer may declare
the maintenance of such rat harborage a nuisance and summarily abate the same
as provided in subsection
 5-1-4C of this title. (1985 Code § 4-5-5)
CHAPTER 6
FOOD DEALERS
ARTICLE A. RETAIL FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5-6A-1: Rules And Regulations
5-6A-2: Permit, License Or Certificate Required; Compliance With Provisions
5-6A-3: Application For Permit, License Or Certificate; Issuance
5-6A-4: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit, License Or Certificate
5-6A-5: Service Of Notices
5-6A-6: Hearings
5-6A-7: Examination And Condemnation Of Food
5-6A-8: Infected Employee Suspects
5-6A-9: Inspections
5-6A-10: Plans For Construction Or Remodel; Inspections
5-6A-11: Inspection Costs
5-6A-12: Conditional License Or Permit
5-6A-13: Penalties
5-6A-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The issuance, suspension and revocation of permits, licenses or certificates to
operate retail food establishments; the prohibiting of sale of unsound or
mislabeled food or drink; and the enforcement of this article shall be
regulated in accordance with section 5-6A-2 of this article concerning the
compliance procedures. The inspection of food service establishments shall be
regulated in accordance with the 1991 and all subsequent editions or amendments
to the Illinois department of public health's publication currently titled
"Food Service Sanitation Rules And Regulations", on file with the secretary of
state. The inspection of retail food stores shall be regulated in accordance
with the 1989 and all subsequent editions or amendments to the Illinois
department of public health's publication currently titled "Retail Food Store
Sanitation Rules And Regulations", on file with the secretary of state. Three
(3) copies of each of the rules and regulations stated herein are on file in
the office of the village clerk. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-2: PERMIT, LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No person shall operate a food establishment who does not have a valid permit,
license or certificate issued thereto by the village. Only a person who
complies with the requirements of this article shall be entitled to receive or
retain such a permit, license or certificate. Permits, licenses or certificates
are not transferable. A valid permit, license or certificate shall be posted in
every food establishment. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT, LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Any person desiring to operate a food establishment shall make written
application for a permit, license or certificate on forms provided by the
village. Such application shall include the name and address of each applicant,
the location and type of the proposed food establishment, and the signature of
each applicant.
   B.   Prior to approval of an application for a permit, license or
certificate, the village and the Cook County department of public health shall
inspect the proposed food establishment to determine compliance with the
requirements of this article.
   C.   The village shall issue a permit, license or certificate to the
applicant if its inspection reveals that the proposed food establishment
complies with the requirements of this article. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-4: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT, LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Suspension:
      1.   Summary Suspension: The village may, without warning, notice, or
hearing, suspend any permit, license or certificate to operate a food
establishment if the holder of the permit, license or certificate does not
comply with the requirements of this article, or if the operation of the food
establishment otherwise constitutes a substantial hazard to public health.
Suspension is effective upon service of the notice required by subsection B2 of
this section. When a permit, license or certificate is suspended, food
operations shall immediately cease. Whenever a permit, license or certificate
is suspended, the holder of the permit, license, or certificate shall be
afforded an opportunity for hearing within twenty (20) days of receipt of a
request for hearing.
      2.   Notice Of Suspension: Whenever a permit, license or certificate is
suspended, the holder of the permit, license or certificate, or the person in
charge, shall be notified in writing that the permit, license or certificate
is, upon service of the notice, immediately suspended and that an opportunity
for hearing will be provided if a written request for hearing is filed with the
village by the holder of the permit, license or certificate within ten (10)
days. If no written request for hearing is filed within ten (10) days, the
suspension is sustained. The village may end the suspension at any time if
reasons for suspension no longer exist.
   B.   Revocation:
      1.   Authority To Revoke: The village may, after providing opportunity
for hearing, revoke the permit, license or certificate for serious or repeated
violations of any of the requirements of this article or for interference with
the village or the Cook County department of public health in the performance
of duty.
      2.   Notice Of Revocation: Prior to revocation, the village shall notify,
in writing, the holder of the permit, license or certificate, or the person in
charge, of the specific reason(s) for which the permit, license or certificate
is to be revoked and that the permit, license or certificate shall be revoked
at the end of ten (10) days following service of such notice unless a written
request for hearing is filed with the village by the holder of the permit,
license or certificate within such ten (10) day period. If no request for
hearing is filed within the ten (10) day period, the revocation of the permit,
license or certificate becomes final. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
      3.   Application After Revocation: Whenever a revocation of a permit,
license or certificate has become final, the holder of the revoked permit,
license or certificate may make written application for a new permit, license
or certificate; provided, however, such application shall be no earlier than
six (6) months from the date of revocation. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992; amd. 2016
Code)
5-6A-5: SERVICE OF NOTICES:
A notice provided in this article is properly served when it is delivered to
the holder of the permit, license or certificate, or the person in charge, or
when it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last known address of the holder of the permit, license or certificate. A
copy of the notice shall be filed in the records of the village. (Ord. 92-6, 3-
9-1992)
5-6A-6: HEARINGS:
The hearings provided in this article shall be conducted by the president and
three (3) members of the board of trustees designated by the president at a
time and place designated by the president. Any oral testimony given at a
hearing shall be reported verbatim, and the presiding officer shall make
provision for sufficient copies of the transcript. The village shall make a
final finding based upon the complete hearing record and shall sustain, modify
or rescind any notice or order considered in the hearing. A written report of
the hearing decision shall be furnished to the holder of the permit, license or
certificate by the village. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-7: EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD:
Food may be examined or sampled by the Cook County department of public health
as often as necessary for enforcement of this article. The Cook County
department of public health may, upon written notice to the owner or person in
charge, specifying with particularity the reasons therefor, place a hold order
on any food which it believes is in violation of section 750.100, 750.110,
760.100, or 760.110 of the Illinois department of public health's publication
currently titled "Food Service Sanitation Rules And Regulations" or "Retail
Food Store Sanitation Rules And Regulations", respectively, or any other
section of this article. The Cook County department of public health shall tag,
label, or otherwise identify any food subject to the hold order. No food
subject to a hold order shall be used, served, or moved from the establishment.
The Cook County department of public health shall permit storage of the food
under conditions specified in the hold order, unless storage is not possible
without risk to the public health, in which case, immediate destruction shall
be ordered and accomplished. The hold order shall state that a request for
hearing may be filed within ten (10) days and that if no hearing is requested,
the food shall be destroyed. If a request for hearing is received, the hearing
shall be held within twenty (20) days after receipt of the request. On the
basis of evidence produced at the hearing, the hold order may be vacated, or
the owner or person in charge of the food may be directed by written order to
denature or destroy such food or to bring it into compliance with the
provisions of this article. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-8: INFECTED EMPLOYEE SUSPECTS:
When the Cook County department of public health has reasonable cause to
suspect possible disease transmission by an employee of a food establishment,
it may secure a morbidity history of the suspected employee or make any other
investigations as indicated and shall take appropriate action. The Cook County
department of public health may require any or all of the following measures:
   A.   The immediate exclusion of the employee from employment in food
establishments.
   B.   The immediate closing of the food establishment concerned until, in the
opinion of the Cook County department of public health, no further danger of
disease outbreak exists.
   C.   Restriction of the employee's services to some area of the
establishment where there would be no danger of transmitting disease.
   D.   Adequate medical and laboratory examination of the employee and of
other employees and of his or their body discharges. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-9: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Frequency: An inspection of a food establishment shall be performed at
least once every six (6) months. Additional inspections of the food
establishment shall be performed as often as necessary for the enforcement of
this article.
   B.   Right Of Access: Duly authorized representatives of the village or the
Cook County department of public health, after proper identification, shall be
permitted to enter any food establishment at any reasonable time for the
purpose of making inspections to determine compliance with this article. The
representatives shall be permitted to examine the records of the establishment
to obtain information pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received, or
used. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
   C.   Report Of Inspections: Whenever an inspection of a food establishment
is made, the findings shall be recorded on the inspection report form provided
by the village. The inspection report form shall summarize the requirements of
this article and shall set forth a weighted point value for each requirement.
Inspection remarks should be written to reference, by item number, the item
violated and should state the correction to be made. The rating score of the
establishment shall be the total of the weighted point values for all
violations, subtracted from 100. A copy of the completed inspection report form
shall be furnished to the person in charge of the establishment at the
conclusion of the inspection. The completed inspection report form is a public
document that shall be made available through the office of the village clerk
for public disclosure to any person who requests it, according to law. (Ord.
92-6, 3-9-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Correction Of Violations:
      1.   The completed inspection report form shall specify a reasonable
period of time for the correction of the violations found, and correction of
the violations shall be accomplished within the period specified, in accordance
with the following provisions:
         a.   If an imminent health hazard exists, such as complete lack of
refrigeration or sewage backup into the establishment, the establishment shall
immediately cease food operations. Operations shall not be resumed until
authorized by the Cook County department of public health.
         b.   All violations of 4 or 5 point weighted items shall be corrected
as soon as possible, but in any event, within ten (10) days following
inspection. A follow up inspection shall be conducted to confirm correction at
the discretion of the Cook County department of public health.
         c.   All 1 or 2 point weighted items shall be corrected as soon as
possible, but in any event, by the time of the next routine inspection.
         d.   When the rating score of the establishment is less than 60, the
establishment shall initiate corrective action on all identified violations
within forty eight (48) hours. One or more reinspections will be conducted at
reasonable time intervals to assure correction.
         e.   In the case of temporary food establishments, all violations
shall be corrected within twenty four (24) hours. If violations are not
corrected within twenty four (24) hours, the establishment shall immediately
cease food operations until authorized to resume by the Cook County department
of public health.
      2.   The inspection report shall state that failure to comply with any
time limits for corrections may result in cessation of food operations. An
opportunity for hearing on the inspection findings or the time limits, or both,
will be provided if a written request is filed with the village within ten (10)
days following cessation of operations. If a request for hearing is received, a
hearing shall be held within twenty (20) days of receipt of the request.
      3.   Whenever a food establishment is required under the provisions of
this article to cease operations, it shall not resume operations until it is
shown on reinspection that conditions responsible for the order to cease
operations no longer exists. Opportunity for reinspections shall be offered
within a reasonable time. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-10: PLANS FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REMODEL; INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Whenever a food establishment is constructed or extensively remodeled
and whenever an existing structure is converted to use as a food establishment,
properly prepared plans and specifications for construction, remodeling, or
conversion shall be submitted to the village and the Cook County department of
public health for review and approval before construction, remodeling or
conversion is begun. The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed
layout, arrangement, mechanical plans, and construction materials of work areas
and the type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities. The village
and the Cook County department of public health shall approve the plans and
specifications if they meet the requirements of this article. No food
establishment shall be constructed, extensively remodeled, or converted except
in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the village and the
Cook County department of public health.
   B.   Whenever plans and specifications are required by subsection A of this
section to be submitted to the village and the Cook County department of public
health, the village and the Cook County department of public health shall
inspect the food establishment prior to the start of operation to determine
compliance with the approved plans and specifications and with the requirements
of this article. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-11: INSPECTION COSTS:
The cost of any and all inspections required under this article shall be borne
by the retail food and beverage establishment. (Ord. 97-7, 3-10-1997)
5-6A-12: CONDITIONAL LICENSE OR PERMIT:
When structural, plumbing and electrical, ventilation, or similar such effects
exist in an established food facility that may require significant expenditures
to correct, but are not considered to be imminent health hazards, a conditional
license or permit may be granted at the discretion of the health authority.
Under no circumstances will a conditional license or permit be issued for more
than two (2) consecutive twelve (12) month periods. The purpose of the
conditional license or permit is to allow a reasonable period of time for
correction of existing defects. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992)
5-6A-13: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation continues. The village
shall have the right to enjoin any person or establishment in the event
violations occur on a continuing basis. (Ord. 92-6, 3-9-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE B. FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
5-6B-1: Licensing Provisions
5-6B-2: Street Dispensing Prohibitions
5-6B-3: Littering
5-6B-4: Violations
5-6B-1: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required; Conditions: A person may be given a license to peddle
foods in a sealed, packaged container upon roadways of the streets of the
village upon the following conditions:
      1.   Compliance With Health Regulations: The person shall comply with all
the health and other regulations set forth in the ordinances of the village and
regulations promulgated by the state of Illinois.
      2.   Devices Creating Sound: No other sound announcement of the presence
of such person or vehicle shall be used, except manually operated chimes, and
no amplification device, mechanical or electronic, shall be used. In any event,
the sound from said manually operated chimes shall not become loud or
intolerable to any person, nor shall it be greater than sixty seven (67)
decibels at the source of the sound based on sound levels measured with a sound
level meter, according to standards prescribed by the American Standards
Association.
      3.   Food Sales:
         a.   The food being vended shall be in a sealed, packaged container.
         b.   All sales and delivery of wares shall be made and consummated by
the vendor on the street and outside the vehicle. Sales from any part of or out
of the vehicle, except as herein provided, are prohibited.
         c.   The practice of selling minor quantities of food from bulk is
prohibited.
      4.   Hours: Vending is prohibited between dusk and the hour of eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. of the following morning, prevailing time. (1985 Code § 4-
6-2-1)
   B.   License Fee: The annual license fee of such person or vehicle shall be
as set forth in section
4-1A-1 of this code. (1985 Code § 4-6-2-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Vehicle License: Each vehicle shall be separately licensed. (1985 Code
§ 4-6-2-1)
5-6B-2: STREET DISPENSING PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   The custom among merchants dealing in ice cream, ices, soda waters,
other soft drinks, hot dogs, hamburgers, hot tamales and similar unpackaged
foods, of delivery at the curb, in the street or upon the sidewalks or
roadways, their merchandise in paper cups, plates or other containers other
than in a sealed, packaged carton, has become a nuisance and a menace to
pedestrians traveling upon the roadway by reason of the depositing of such
cups, plates or other containers on the sidewalks and streets, and the delivery
of such commodities in containers upon the public streets, except in a sealed,
packaged container, anywhere on the streets is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and a menace.
   B.   No person dealing at retail in ice creams, soda waters and other soft
drinks, hot dogs, hamburgers, hot tamales or merchandise of like character
shall deliver the same upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public ways
of the village.
   C.   The sale or disposition by any person of food, beverage, dairy
products, ice cream or any of its kindred products, in paper, cardboard or
other container, other than in a sealed, packaged container, known by such
person to be intended to be consumed by the buyer on the sidewalks, alleys or
at or near the place of business where such food or beverage is sold or
dispensed is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health and
sanitation of the community.
   D.   No food dealer shall deliver any such goods to a person known to be a
runner or person employed to carry such goods from the place of business to
persons on the sidewalk, curb or street, and no such runner shall deliver any
such merchandise on the streets, sidewalks or alleys of the village. (1985 Code
§ 4-6-2-2)
5-6B-3: LITTERING:
No person shall litter, throw or drop any cup, plate or container upon a
sidewalk, crosswalk, roadway or any part of any public street, and such act is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and is unlawful. (1985 Code § 4-6-2-3)
5-6B-4: VIOLATIONS:
Any dealer in ice cream, ices, soda water or other soft drinks, hot dogs,
hamburgers, hot tamales and similar packaged food, or merchandise of like
character, who shall violate any of the provisions of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to having his license as such
dealer revoked by the village president; and any person littering, throwing or
dropping such cup, plate or container on the street, and any person acting as a
runner as herein prohibited, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1985 Code § 4-
6-2-4)
CHAPTER 7
ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION
SECTION:
5-7-1: Purpose And Intent
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Applicability And Interpretation
5-7-4: Administration And Enforcement Authority
5-7-5: Discharge Prohibitions And Exemptions
5-7-6: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
5-7-7: Monitoring Discharges
5-7-8: Use Of Best Management Practices
5-7-9: Watercourse Protection
5-7-10: Notice Of Spills
5-7-11: Suspension Of MS4 Access
5-7-12: Enforcement And Penalties
5-7-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the village through the regulation of nonstormwater
discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the national
pollution discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process. The objectives
of this chapter are:
   A.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user;
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
   C.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Employees or designees of the village or the
director of the agency designated to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwaters, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section
1251 et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
NPDES stormwater phase II permits are required for construction projects
resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include, but
are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which, because of its quantity, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics, may cause, or significantly
contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in section
5-7-5 of this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION: Either of the following:
   A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by the village or other authorized enforcement agency;
or
   B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by the village or other authorized enforcement
agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Any activity subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR section 122.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the U.S. EPA (or by the state EPA under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area wide basis.
   NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal
wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Publicly owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
humanmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
   STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
5-7-3: APPLICABILITY AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm
drain system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly
exempted by the village or other authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 09-05, 4-
13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Minimum Requirements: The standards set forth herein and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter are minimum standards. Therefore, this chapter does
not intend nor imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will
be no contamination, pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord.
09-05, 4-13-2009)
5-7-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The village or other authorized enforcement agency shall administer, implement,
and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties
imposed upon the village or other authorized enforcement agency may be
delegated in writing by the village or the director of the authorized
enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of
or in the employ of the village or agency. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd. 2016
Code)
5-7-5: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Illegal Discharge Prohibitions And Exemptions: No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or
watercourses any materials including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters
containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable
water quality standards, other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct or
continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited
except as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable water
sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated, typically less than 1 ppm chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
(Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the village or other authorized
enforcement agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal
notification to the village or other authorized enforcement agency prior to the
time of the test.
      4.   Any nonstormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the federal or state environmental protection agency; provided,
that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations; and provided, that
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
(Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Illicit Connection Prohibitions:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection
to continue. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
5-7-6: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES stormwater
discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof of
compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the village
or other authorized enforcement agency prior to the allowing of discharges to
the MS4. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
5-7-7: MONITORING DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
   B.   Access To Facilities:
      1.   The village or other authorized enforcement agency shall be
permitted to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this
chapter as often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
village or other authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd.
2016 Code)
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the village or other authorized
enforcement agency ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes
of inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law. (Ord.
09-05, 4-13-2009)
      3.   The village or other authorized enforcement agency shall have the
right to set up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the
opinion of the village or other authorized enforcement agency to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge. (Ord. 09-05,
4-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
      4.   The village or other authorized enforcement agency has the right to
require the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The
facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense.
All devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the village or other authorized
enforcement agency and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access
shall be borne by the operator. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the village or other authorized
enforcement agency access to a permitted facility is a violation of a
stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A person who is the operator
of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with
industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the village or
other authorized enforcement agency reasonable access to the permitted facility
for the purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this
chapter.
      7.   If the village or other authorized enforcement agency has been
refused access to any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged,
and is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a
violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as
part of a routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance
with this chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the village or other
authorized enforcement agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any
court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
5-7-8: USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
The village or other authorized enforcement agency shall adopt requirements
identifying best management practices for any activity, operation, or facility
which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the
storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial
or industrial establishment shall provide, at his own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premises which is or may be the source of an illicit discharge, may
be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and
nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
5-7-9: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
5-7-10: NOTICE OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S.,
said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the village or
other authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later
than the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be
confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the village or other
authorized enforcement agency within three (3) business days of the phone
notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3)
years. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
5-7-11: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Emergency Situations: The village or other authorized enforcement
agency may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when
such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United
States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an
emergency, the village or other authorized enforcement agency may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of
the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person discharging to the MS4 in
violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access terminated if such
termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The village or other
authorized enforcement agency shall notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the village or other
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing. A person
commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated
pursuant to this section without the prior approval of the village or other
authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
5-7-12: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Whenever the village or other authorized enforcement agency finds
that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of
this chapter, the village or other authorized enforcement agency may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such
notice may require, without limitation:
         a.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
         b.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
         c.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease
and desist;
         d.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
         e.   Payment of fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
         f.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      2.   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
remediation or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise
that, should the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a
contractor, and the expense thereof shall be charged to the violator. (Ord. 09-
05, 4-13-2009)
   B.   Appeal Of Violation Notice: Any person receiving a notice of violation
may appeal the determination of the village or other authorized enforcement
agency. The notice of appeal must be received within seven (7) days from the
date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate
authority or his/her designee shall take place within fifteen (15) days from
the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal
authority or its designee shall be final.
   C.   Enforcement Measures After Appeal: If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation or,
in the event of an appeal, within seven (7) days of the decision of the
municipal authority upholding the decision of the village or other authorized
enforcement agency, then representatives of the village or other authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, or agent in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the governmental agency or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
herein. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Cost Of Abatement: Within seven (7) days after abatement of the
violation, the owner of the property will be notified of the cost of abatement,
including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest
objecting to the amount of the assessment within seven (7) days. If the amount
due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision of the
municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in which to file an
appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and
shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable to
the village by reason of such violation. The liability shall be paid in not
more than twelve (12) equal payments. Interest at the rate of the current
market value (percentage per annum) shall be assessed on the balance beginning
on the thirtieth day following discovery of the violation. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-
2009)
   E.   Injunctive Relief: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a
person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the
village or other authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary
or permanent injunction restraining the person from activities which would
create further violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or
remediation of the violation.
   F.   Compensatory Action: In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and
remedies authorized by this chapter, the village or other authorized
enforcement agency may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory actions,
such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops, creek
cleanup, etc. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance: In addition to the enforcement
processes and penalties provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a threat to public
health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-2009)
   H.   Criminal Prosecution: Any person that has violated or continues to
violate this chapter shall be liable to prosecution to the fullest extent of
the law, and shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code per violation per day.
   I.   Remedies Not Exclusive: The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedies available under any applicable federal, state
or local law, and it is within the discretion of the village or other
authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies. (Ord. 09-05, 4-13-
2009; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created
6-1-2: Department Members And Employees
6-1-3: Civil Service Commission
6-1-4: Police Administrative Policy
6-1-5: Police Pension Fund And Board
6-1-6: Penalty
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
The village police department shall consist of a chief of police and such other
officers, police officers and employees as shall, by ordinance, from time to
time, be determined by the village president, with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees. Said department, called department of police, is hereby
created. The chain of command of said department shall be as follows: a) chief
of police; b) deputy chief of police; c) lieutenants; d) sergeants of police;
and e) patrolmen. (1985 Code § 5-1-1; amd. Ord. 12-07, 8-30-2012; 2016 Code)
6-1-2: DEPARTMENT MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES:
The village police department shall consist of the following police officers
and employees:
   A.   Chief Of Police: The appointment of the chief of police shall be made
by the president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The
chief of police shall hold his office during the pleasure of the president and
board of trustees; except, that the same shall expire with the municipal year
or until his successor is appointed and qualified. He shall be the
superintendent of the police force of the village and have the authority to
delegate immediate supervisory responsibilities according to the chain of
command. (1985 Code § 5-1-2)
   B.   Deputy Chief Of Police: The appointment of the deputy chief of police
shall be made by the president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. The deputy chief of police shall hold his office at the pleasure of
the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 12-07, 8-30-2012)
   C.   Lieutenant Of Police: The number of lieutenants of police shall be
determined from time to time by the president, with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees.
   D.   Sergeant Of Police: The number of sergeants of police shall be
determined from time to time by the president, with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees. (Ord. 02-02, 1-14-2002)
   E.   Patrolmen: The number of patrolmen shall be set from time to time by
the president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. (Ord. 92-
3, 2-10-1992, eff. retroactive to 1-13-1992; amd. Ord. 97-17, 5-12-1997)
   F.   Police Matrons: Police matrons may be appointed from among the regular
members of the department and shall perform the duties as police matrons in
addition to their other duties as members of the police department. (1985 Code
§ 5-1-2; amd. Ord. 97-17, 5-12-1997; 2016 Code)
6-1-3: CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION:
For purposes of determining qualified applicants, proper examination and
appointment, as well as the establishment and enforcement of rules and
regulations of the police department, there was created by referendum the
Hodgkins civil service commission, hereinafter referred to as the civil service
commission. (1985 Code § 5-1-4)
6-1-4: POLICE ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY:
All of the terms of the village police administrative policy are covered under
the collective bargaining agreement between the village and the Illinois
fraternal order of police labor council on behalf of patrol officers.
Accordingly, if there is a conflict between this code and the bargaining
agreement, the bargaining agreement shall supersede. (2016 Code)
6-1-5: POLICE PENSION FUND AND BOARD:
   A.   Board And Fund Established: There is hereby created and established the
board of trustees of the police pension fund of the village and the village
police pension fund. (Ord. 87-7, 5-11-1987)
   B.   Definitions: The terms used in this section, for the purposes of this
section, shall have the following meanings, except when the context requires
otherwise:
   BOARD: The board of trustees of the police pension fund of the village of
Hodgkins, Illinois.
   CHILD OR CHILDREN: A policeman's natural children and his legally adopted
children.
   CREDITABLE SERVICE: That service shall be computed as set forth in the
Illinois pension code.
   DEATH BENEFITS: 1. That upon the death of a police officer entitled to a
pension under the provisions of this section, his or her surviving spouse, or
his or her surviving minor children dependent because of physical or mental
disability regardless of age, or dependent because of age, or his or her
surviving dependent parent or parents if such there be, shall be entitled to
the pension to which the police officer was then entitled.
      2.   Upon the death of a policeman who has at least twenty (20) years of
creditable service, or upon the death of a policeman who retired from service
with at least twenty (20) years of creditable service, whether his death occurs
before or after he has attained age fifty (50), or before or after his
application for retirement on pension, the pension to which the decedent would
have been entitled, had he lived and applied for pension as of the date of his
death, shall be paid to his dependents as provided upon death of a pensioner in
subsection 1 of this definition.
   DISABILITY PENSIONS: Disability pensions in the amount set forth in the
Illinois pension code shall be payable to a disabled policeman upon the
conditions therein set forth.
   GENDER: The term policeman includes policewoman and words importing the
masculine gender import the feminine gender, unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intention of the context.
   PENSION AMOUNT: The amount of the pension to be received by any policeman
shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of the Illinois pension
code.
   PERSONS EXCLUDED: 1. Part time policemen, special policemen, night watchmen,
temporary employees, traffic guards or so called auxiliary policemen specially
appointed to aid or direct traffic at or near schools or public functions, or
to aid in civil defense, municipal parking lot attendants, clerks or other
civilian employees of a police department who perform clerical duties
exclusively.
      2.   Any policeman who fails to pay the salary payments or deductions
herein defined, computed from the date the village became subject to article 3
of the Illinois pension code by attaining a population of five thousand
(5,000), and continuing during his entire service as a policeman. A policeman
who is reappointed shall, before being declared eligible to participate in the
pension fund, repay to the fund as required by section 3-124 of the Illinois
pension code any refund received pursuant to said section.
         3. Any appointed noncivil service policeman.
   POLICEMAN, POLICEMEN, MEMBER OF THE FORCE: 1. Any person who:
a. Is heretofore or hereafter appointed to the police force of the police
department and sworn and commissioned to perform police duties; and
b. Is found, upon examination of a duly licensed physician or physicians
selected by the board, to be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties
of a policeman; and
c. Within three (3) months after receiving his first appointment, and of
reappointment, within three (3) months thereafter, makes written application to
come under the provisions of article 3 of the Illinois pension code.
      2.   Policemen serving initial probationary periods, if otherwise
eligible, shall be policemen within the meaning of this subsection. (Ord. 87-7,
5-11-1987; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Pension Fund Provisions:
      1.   Effect On Retirement Of Police Officers: Nothing contained in this
section shall be construed as requiring the retirement at age fifty (50) of any
policeman who is capable of performing his duties. (Ord. 87-7, 5-11-1987)
      2.   Death In The Line Of Duty: There shall be paid to the spouse, minor
children, or dependent parents of a police officer who is killed in the line of
duty, those benefits in such case made and provided under the Illinois pension
code. (Ord. 87-7, 5-11-1987; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Financing Of Fund: The cost of providing the pension benefits
required to be paid by the village under the provisions of the Illinois pension
code and this section shall be financed by the levy of a tax pursuant to the
provisions of section 3-125 of the Illinois pension code.
   D.   Board Of Trustees Of Fund:
      1.   Membership; Appointive And Elective Members:
         a.   Membership: The board shall be composed of five (5) members. Two
(2) members of the board shall be appointed by the village president. The third
and fourth members of the board shall be elected from the regular police force
by the active members thereof. The fifth member shall be elected by and from
among the beneficiaries of the fund.
         b.   Terms Of Appointive Members: One of the board members appointed
by the president shall serve for one year beginning on the second Tuesday in
May. The other appointed member shall serve for two (2) years beginning on the
same date. The successors of the appointed members of the board shall serve for
two (2) years each or until their successors are appointed and qualified. (Ord.
87-7, 5-11-1987)
         c.   Biennial Election: The election provided for in this subsection
D1 for elected board members shall be held biennially on the third Monday in
April at such place or places in the village and under the Australian ballot
system and such other regulations as shall be prescribed by the appointed
members of the board. (Ord. 87-7, 5-11-1987; amd. 2016 Code)
         d.   Authority To Vote; Terms Of Elective Members: All members of the
regular Hodgkins police force shall be entitled to vote only for the police
force members of the board. All beneficiaries of legal age shall be entitled to
vote only for the member chosen among the beneficiaries. No person shall be
entitled to cast more than one ballot at such election. The members shall be
elected for a term of two (2) years beginning on the second Tuesday of the
first May after such election. (Ord. 87-7, 5-11-1987)
         e.   Vacancies: Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any
member of the board elected under this subsection D1, his successor shall be
elected for the unexpired term at a special election to be called by the board
and conducted in the same manner as the regular biennial election. (Ord. 87-7,
5-11-1987; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Organization:
         a.   Meetings: The board shall hold regular quarterly meetings on the
second Tuesday of July, October, January and April annually and special
meetings as called by the president.
         b.   Officers:
            (1)   At the regular July meeting, the board shall select from its
members a president, vice president, secretary and assistant secretary to serve
for the period of one year and until their respective successors are elected
and qualified.
            (2)   The vice president of the board shall perform the duties of
the president during any vacancy in that office, or during such time as the
president is absent from the village, or if for any other reason is
disqualified or by reason of illness or other causes is unable to perform his
duties.
            (3)   The assistant secretary shall act for the secretary whenever
necessary to discharge the functions of such office. (Ord. 87-7, 5-11-1987)
      3.   Powers And Duties: The board shall have those powers and duties set
forth in the Illinois pension code generally, and particularly those powers set
forth in sections 3-132 through 3-140.1 thereof. (Ord. 87-7, 5-11-1987; amd.
2016 Code)
      4.   Compensation: Members of the board shall receive no money or monies
from a pension fund as salary for services performed as members of such board.
   E.   Compliance With State Law: It is the intention of the corporate
authorities that the provisions of this section shall, in all respects, comply
with and be consistent with the provisions of the Illinois pension code, and
this section shall be construed so as to give it that effect. (Ord. 87-7, 5-11-
1987)
6-1-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1985 Code § 5-1-8; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Declaration Of Emergency
6-2-3: General Curfew
6-2-4: Prohibitions During Emergency
6-2-5: Penalty
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated unless their content clearly requires otherwise:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority
of law; or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW: A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the village, except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency. (1985 Code § 5-2-1)
6-2-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Powers Of Village President: The village president may, by
proclamation, declare a civil emergency and impose a curfew under the
conditions of this chapter.
   B.   Form Of Proclamation; Procedures: Whenever an emergency, as defined in
section
6-2-1 of this chapter, exists, the president shall declare the existence by
means of a written declaration (proclamation) signed by him under oath, which
statement shall contain a finding that the standards herein set forth have been
met, setting forth facts to substantiate said findings constituting the
emergency, describing the nature of the emergency and declaring that a state of
emergency exists. The statement shall be filed with the clerk as soon as
practicable.
   C.   Term Of Proclamation: The proclamation herein authorized shall be
effective for a period of forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a
proclamation of the president indicating that the civil emergency no longer
exists. The president shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a
civil emergency at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time
the said civil emergency exists.
   D.   Public Notice: Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the
chief of police shall notify the news media situated within the village, and
shall cause three (3) copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the
emergency to be posted at the following places within the village:
Village hall.
Police station.
Post office. (1985 Code § 5-2-2)
6-2-3: GENERAL CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the president, he may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village or to the
village as a whole as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of
the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare. (1985 Code § 5-2-3)
6-2-4: PROHIBITIONS DURING EMERGENCY:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the president may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   A.   Liquor Establishments: Order the closing of all retail liquor stores,
including taverns and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption
of intoxicating liquor and beer is permitted.
   B.   Liquor Sales: Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor
by any wholesaler or retailer.
   C.   Gasoline: Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving
away gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any
container other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   D.   Firearms: Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing
or giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   E.   Additional Orders: Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary
for the protection of life and property. (1985 Code § 5-2-4)
6-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or of an executive order
issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against the village and
shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1985 Code § 5-2-5; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Dog Licensing Provisions
6-3-3: Rabies Control
6-3-4: Impoundment
6-3-5: Cruelty To Animals
6-3-6: Keeping Certain Animals Restricted
6-3-7: Dangerous Animals
6-3-8: Diseased Animals
6-3-9: Running At Large
6-3-10: Animals On Public Property
6-3-11: Offensive Acts Or Conditions
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated unless their context clearly requires otherwise:
BITING DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL: A dog or other animal which has bitten, scratched
or otherwise injured any person so as to cause an abrasion to the skin of such
person.
   DANGEROUS DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL: A dog or other animal which shall cause
annoyance or reasonable fear of bodily injury to any person by attacking or
threatening to attack such person.
   LEASH: A line used to control a dog or other animal, securely fastened to
the collar or harness of said dog or other animal.
   OWNER: A person having a right of property in a dog or other animal, or who
has a dog or other animal in his care, or who acts as a custodian of a dog or
other animal, or who knowingly permits a dog or other animal to remain on or
about any premises occupied by him. (1985 Code § 5-3-1; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-2: DOG LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required; No Fee: Every owner of a dog or other animal within
the limits of the village shall report to the village comptroller annually
within thirty (30) days after January 1 in each year, his or her name and
address, and the name, breed, color and sex of each and every dog owned or kept
by such person, and obtain a license for such dog. There is no fee for this
license.
   B.   Rabies Inoculation Required: No person shall receive a dog license
unless he shall certify to the village comptroller that the dog has been
inoculated against rabies as provided in subsection
6-3-3B of this chapter, and that he has a statement from a veterinarian or
other authorized person to that effect.
   C.   License Tag And Collar Required:
      1.   Every dog, regardless of age, shall be provided by the owner or
keeper with a collar, to which a license tag will be securely fastened. No dog
shall be permitted to remain within the limits of the village unless the owner
or keeper thereof shall have caused such dog to be licensed and provided with
such collar and tag. Any owner or keeper of a dog failing to provide such
collar and tag shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The license tag or receipt
shall be shown to a police officer or to the health officer upon demand.
      2.   The village comptroller shall provide, each and every year, such
number of metal (or other suitable material) tags as may be necessary (the
shape to be changed every year), having stamped thereon the year for which the
license is required, the name "HODGKINS", address and phone number of the owner
or keeper of said dog and the number of the tag. It shall be the duty of the
village comptroller to deliver one of such tags to the person licensing such
dog, the number of each tag to correspond with the registry of the dog. (1985
Code § 5-3-2; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-3: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Applicability Of Provisions: The provisions of this chapter concerning
rabies, impoundment, redemption and disposition shall apply to all animals
having rabies, having symptoms of rabies, or having bitten a person or another
animal.
   B.   Inoculation Required; Certificate:
      1.   Every owner of a dog four (4) months or more of age shall have such
dog inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. Every dog shall have
a second rabies vaccination within one year of the first. Terms of subsequent
vaccine administration and duration of immunity must be in compliance with USDA
licenses of vaccines used. Evidence of such rabies inoculation shall be entered
on a certificate, the form of which shall be approved by the county board, and
which shall contain the microchip number of the animal if it has one and which
shall be signed by the licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine.
Veterinarians who inoculate a dog shall procure from the county animal control
serially numbered tags, one to be issued with each inoculation certificate.
Only one dog shall be included on each certificate. The veterinarian immunizing
or microchipping an animal shall provide the administrator of the county with a
certificate of immunization and microchip number. The county board shall cause
a rabies inoculation tag to be issued, at a fee established by the board for
each dog inoculated against rabies.
      2.   Rabies vaccine for use on animals shall be sold or distributed only
to and used only by licensed veterinarians. Such rabies vaccine shall be
licensed by the United States department of agriculture.
      3.   If a licensed veterinarian determines in writing that a rabies
inoculation would compromise an animal's health, then the animal shall be
exempt from the rabies shot requirement, but the owner must still be
responsible for the fees.
   C.   Animals That Bite; Procedures:
      1.   A biting dog or other animal shall be taken to a veterinarian within
twenty four (24) hours under the direction of the health officer or the Cook
County rabies control division, in accordance with the Cook County rabies
ordinance. An animal bite card shall be completed by the reporting officer.
      2.   Where an animal has bitten a person and the owner is unknown, the
animal will be taken to animal control in Chicago Ridge.
      3.   Any dog or other animal which shall have been bitten by another dog
or animal having or suspected of having rabies, shall be impounded by the
owner, at his expense, under the direction of the health officer or the Cook
County rabies control division for a period of time as follows, depending on
the bitten animal's vaccination status:
         a.   Unvaccinated animal: Six (6) months.
         b.   Vaccinated animal: Must be revaccinated and then impounded for
thirty (30) days. (1985 Code § 5-3-3; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-4: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Pound Designated:
      1.   All animals which have bitten persons and are diseased, have rabies
or symptoms of rabies, shall be placed in pounds designated by the village.
      2.   All other animals shall be placed in pounds designated by the police
department, and said department shall have the duty to designate adequate
pounds and enforce the provisions of this chapter in cooperation with the
health officer. (1985 Code § 5-3-4)
   B.   Impoundment Procedures: Any dog or other animal found running at large
within the village shall be deemed and considered to be a public nuisance, and
it shall be the duty of the police department (or other village agency ordered
by the president so to do) to capture and impound any such dog or other animal.
Request may be made of the township animal warden to transport any animal to a
designated place of impoundment and to render assistance and immediate aid in
capturing and impoundment of a biting dog and other biting animals. The police
department shall, immediately upon impounding any dog or other animal, make a
complete registry and enter therein the breed, color and sex of such dog or
other animal and the number of such tag if said dog or other animal is bearing
an inoculation tag. The owner of such animal, if known, shall be notified and
an animal bite card completed.
   C.   Rabies Inoculation Required: In case such dog has not been inoculated
against rabies for the current year, such owner shall also advance the fee
required to have such dog inoculated by a duly licensed veterinarian, and he
shall forthwith cause the dog to be duly inoculated against rabies. No dog
shall be released without having been inoculated for the current calendar year,
or in accordance with the requirements of subsection
6-3-3B of this chapter, and if unlicensed, payment of the current license fee.
Upon payment of the required charges, the dog shall thereupon be released to
the owner or keeper.
   D.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Dogs: Any impounded dog which has not been
redeemed or which has rabies symptoms shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise
disposed of by the veterinarian. (1985 Code § 5-3-4; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-5: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Generally: No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the
village in any way.
   B.   Poisoning: No person shall place, leave or expose in any place
accessible to birds, fowl, domestic animals, dogs, cats or other such animals
with the intent to kill or harm such birds, fowl or animals, any poisonous
substance or ingredient which has in any manner been treated or prepared with
any poisonous substance or ingredient. (1985 Code § 5-3-6)
   C.   Shooting Birds; Taking Eggs: Every person who shall kill or wound, or
attempt to kill or wound, by the use of firearms, slingshot, bow and arrow,
pelting with stones or otherwise, any bird within any private grounds or public
parks, squares, streets or grounds, such bird not being the property of the
person so offending, or taking the eggs or young of any bird, shall be deemed
in violation of this subsection. (1985 Code § 5-3-6; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Trapping: The snaring or trapping of animals by any means or devices is
hereby prohibited within the village.
   E.   Animal Fights; Indecent Exhibitions: No person shall instigate, cause
or procure any dogfight, cockfight or any public or private fighting, or in any
manner instigate, cause or procure or assist in any indecent or immoral show or
exhibition of any animal. (1985 Code § 5-3-6)
6-3-6: KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Livestock: It shall be unlawful to keep any live swine, pigs, horses,
ponies, mules, donkeys, cows, calves, sheep, lambs or goats in the village.
   B.   Wild, Dangerous Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to have,
keep, maintain or have in his possession or under his control within the
village any poisonous reptile or serpent, or any other dangerous or carnivorous
wild animal or reptile, or vicious or dangerous domesticated animal.
   C.   Bees: It shall be unlawful to keep bees, beehives, bee fixtures or
appurtenances or to have an apiary.
   D.   Poultry: It shall be unlawful to raise for home or domestic purposes
poultry of any kind.
   E.   Keeping For Commercial Use Or For Sale: It shall be unlawful to raise
or keep any animals to be used for commercial uses or purposes or for sale,
except dogs and domestic cats in a duly licensed pet shop or kennel. (1985 Code
§ 5-3-7; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-7: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any dangerous dog or other animal is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance.
   B.   Running At Large: The owner of any dangerous dog or other animal shall
keep the same confined in a secure enclosure, or on a leash controlled by the
owner or his or her agent at all times, and shall not permit such dog or other
animal to be at large within the village. (1985 Code § 5-3-8)
   C.   Exhibitions; Permit Required: Exhibitions of animals or birds which are
ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the village. (1985 Code § 5-3-8; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Authority to Kill: The members of the police department, or any person
in the village, is authorized to kill any dangerous animal or bird of any kind
when necessary for the protection of person or property. (1985 Code § 5-3-8)
6-3-8: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Running At Large; Confinement To Owner's Premises: No domestic animal
afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be allowed to run at
large or to be exposed in any public place whereby the health of man or beast
may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed from the
premises of the owner thereof, except under the supervision of the health
officer or the state veterinarian.
   B.   Bringing Into Village Prohibited: No such diseased animals shall be
brought into the village.
   C.   Authority To Destroy: The health officer shall have the authority to
humanely destroy any stray animal found running at large with symptoms of any
contagious or infectious disease.
   D.   Provisions Applicable To Birds: The provisions of this section shall
also apply to birds. (1985 Code § 5-3-9)
6-3-9: RUNNING AT LARGE:
No person shall cause or permit any dog or other animal owned by him to run at
large on any public place, mobile home park, public hall, restaurant, office,
grocery store, meat market, or bakery or within any other shop or store within
the village which is open to the general public, or on any privately owned
premises other than those of the owner. (1985 Code § 5-3-10; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-10: ANIMALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Leash Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a dog or other animal, except when on a
leash controlled by the owner or his or her agent, to use or be upon any public
street, sidewalk, parkway or public area within the village.
      2.   No person shall, within the village, bring, drive, lead, carry or
permit any dog or cat on any street, public way or in any part of the park
system without being leashed.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any dog or other animal, even though on
leash, to be in or enter upon any public hall or any business for the sale of
food, except any shop for the sale or treatment of animal pets, anywhere within
the village.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any dog or other animal, even though on a
leash, to be present at, or upon, any school premises, public playgrounds,
public swimming pool or public park within the village.
      5.   The provisions of this subsection A shall not apply to service dogs
for persons with disabilities.
   B.   Tying Or Injury To Trees And Shrubs: No person shall fasten any animal
to any tree or shrub or to any protective device around any tree or shrub
growing in any public way or parkway within the village; nor shall any person
allow any animal to injure or deface any tree, plant or shrub in any manner
whatsoever.
   C.   Horses Being Ridden Or Driven: No person shall lead or allow to be
loose upon any street, public way, park or school premises any animal; except,
that horses may be ridden by the persons in charge thereof, or driven before a
vehicle attached thereto on such portions of the village or park system as may
be designated for riding and driving. (1985 Code § 5-3-11; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-11: OFFENSIVE ACTS OR CONDITIONS:
   A.   Housing Animals: It shall be a misdemeanor and a nuisance to own, use
or keep any yard, pen, place, railroad car or premises, in or upon which
animals, birds or fowl shall be confined or kept, so as to be offensive to
those residing in the vicinity, or an annoyance to others. (1985 Code § 5-3-12)
   B.   Animal Wastes:
      1.   No person or owner shall allow or permit any animal owned, housed,
under his control or custody or subject to his immediate response or call to
defecate in the village except on property owned or leased by said person or
owner. (1985 Code § 5-3-12; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Any owner, keeper or person walking a dog, or permitting a dog to
stray, shall be liable to clean up dog feces caused by his dog outside of his
own property. Any person walking a dog outside of his own property shall carry
a litter bag and scoop, pick up his dog feces, and cause such feces to be
removed to a feces disposal unit. It shall be unlawful for any person to walk a
dog on property other than his own without having the litter bag and scoop as
mentioned herein, and it shall be unlawful not to remove any feces caused by
his dog on any property.
   C.   Animals Disturbing The Peace: It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep
any animal or bird which disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of the
day or night.
   D.   Dead Animals: All dead animals not impounded shall be disposed of by
the owner. Deceased animals found on public property, streets or ways shall be
disposed of by the public works department.
   E.   Animals In Heat: The owner of any female dog or other animal in heat
shall keep the same confined or on a leash at all times and shall not permit
such dog or other animal to be at large on the streets, parks or other public
places within the village, or on any premises other than those of the owner.
(1985 Code § 5-3-12)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES AND PERSONALTY
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Abandonment Of Vehicles Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
6-4-3: Removal Of Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicles
6-4-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
6-4-5: Notify Owner Of Towed Vehicle
6-4-6: Reclamation Of Vehicle By Owner
6-4-7: Sale, Disposal Of Vehicle
6-4-8: Abandoned Motor Vehicles And Personal Property
6-4-9: Nonliability Of Village And Towing Service
6-4-10: Exemptions
6-4-11: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated unless their context clearly requires otherwise:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: A. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition;
   B.   Any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for
five (5) consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted on public
property;
   C.   Any unlicensed motor vehicle, or one that does not have a current,
annual year license attached thereto, which has not been used or moved for five
(5) consecutive days on private property; and
   D.   Any privately owned unlicensed motor vehicle or other vehicle which
remains on public property for a period of over twenty four (24) hours.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years
of age or older.
   CHIEF OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT: The chief of the police department, the
officer in charge of the work shifts, or their duly authorized deputy.
   HIGHWAY: Any street, alley or public way within the village.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Streets, alleys, highways and all public parking lots,
parkways, lands and easements.
   UNLICENSED: All motor vehicles or other vehicles not bearing current
Illinois or other state license plates. (1985 Code § 5-4-1; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-2: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   Public Property:
      1.   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof on any highway in the village is unlawful and subject to penalties as
set forth herein. (1985 Code § 5-4-2)
      2.   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof on private or public property other than a highway, in view of the
general public anywhere in the village, is unlawful except on property of the
owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or
any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal
by or upon the order of the chief of the village police department after a
waiting period of five (5) days has expired. (1985 Code § 5-4-2; amd. 2016
Code)
   B.   Private Property:
      1.   An abandoned vehicle on the private property of the owner or bailee
(except repair shops and car dealers) is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
      2.   An abandoned vehicle in a repair shop or at a car dealer, or on any
premises used in connection therewith, where said vehicle is in open view of
the public for more than forty five (45) days, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. (1985 Code § 5-4-2)
6-4-3: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES:
   A.   On The Property Of Another: When an abandoned, lost, stolen or
unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle comes into the temporary possession or
custody of a person in this state, not the owner or bailee of the vehicle, such
person shall immediately notify the village police department when the vehicle
is within the corporate limits of the village. Upon receipt of such
notification, the chief of police shall authorize a towing service to remove
and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle
or other vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it
is disposed of as provided in this chapter. (1985 Code § 5-4-3)
   B.   Unlicensed Vehicles: When a privately owned unlicensed motor vehicle or
other vehicle remains upon any street or highway in the village for twenty four
(24) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by order
of the chief of police after posting on the windshield of said vehicle a
written notice on an orange tow sticker, not to exceed one hundred twenty (120)
square inches in size, that said vehicle will be towed unless removed within
ten (10) hours. A village ordinance citation for twenty five dollars ($25.00)
will be issued. (1985 Code § 5-4-3; amd. 2016 Code)
C. Vehicles Which Create Hazards:
      1.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned, unattended,
wrecked, burned or partially dismantled such that it is a hazard to the health,
safety and welfare of children, pedestrians and other vehicles, and remains
upon any street or highway in the village for ten (10) hours or more, its
removal by a towing service may be authorized by order of the chief of police.
      2.   When any motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating an imminently
dangerous traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the highway or
its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate
removal from the highway by a towing service may be authorized by order of the
chief of police. (1985 Code § 5-4-3)
   D.   Code And Statute Violations: When any motor vehicle or other vehicle
remains upon any street, highway or parkway in violation of the Illinois motor
vehicle code or of this code prohibiting standing, stopping, and parking in
certain places, during certain times or during snow removal periods, or any
other traffic control ordinances of the village, its removal by a towing
service may be authorized by order of the chief of police.
   E.   Jacked Up Vehicles: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is either
jacked up, put on blocks or otherwise placed in a position such that its
support is other than on four (4) tires for a period of twenty four (24) hours
or more on any street or highway, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the chief of police after posting on the windshield of
said vehicle a written notice on an orange tow sticker, not to exceed one
hundred twenty (120) square inches in size, that said vehicle will be towed
unless removed within ten (10) hours. (1985 Code § 5-4-3; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Owner Responsible For Costs: When a vehicle removed from either public
or private property is authorized by order of the chief of police, the owner of
the vehicle will be responsible for all towing and storage costs.
   G.   Record Of Towed Vehicles: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is
authorized to be towed away, the police department shall keep and maintain a
record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture,
manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle
identification number, license plate year and number, and registration sticker
year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the
date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing
and the name of the officer authorizing the tow. (1985 Code § 5-4-3)
6-4-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
   A.   The owner or bailee shall be served with a written notice to abate the
nuisance. The notice shall substantially inform him of the following:
      1.   That he is committing a nuisance on his property. (1985 Code § 5-4-
4)
      2.   To abate the same in five (5) days. (1985 Code § 5-4-4; amd. 2016
Code)
      3.   That if he does not, the village will abate the same by towing the
vehicle to an auto pound and charge the cost to him.
      4.   That he may also be charged in court with violating this chapter and
fined for each day said nuisance continues.
      5.   That the village may use any other remedies, ordinances or statutory
regulations against him. (1985 Code § 5-4-4)
   B.   In the event said owner or bailee does not remove the abandoned vehicle
after five (5) days, the nuisance shall be summarily abated by causing said
vehicle to be towed to an auto pound. The owner or bailee shall be notified of
the tow and place where held. (1985 Code § 5-4-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   No abandoned vehicle removed to a pound for violation of this chapter
shall be sold or otherwise disposed of unless such sale and disposal is in
accordance with state law.
   D.   All notices required shall be served on such owner or bailee in person,
by certified mail addressed to the premises of the violation, or by posting the
same on said premises.
   E.   A complaint may be filed in the circuit court for violating the
provisions of this chapter in lieu of or in addition to the provisions of this
section for abating the nuisance by towing. (1985 Code § 5-4-4)
6-4-5: NOTIFY OWNER OF TOWED VEHICLE:
   A.   When the village police department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it shall cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the secretary of state for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   B.   The police department shall cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
Illinois state police to be searched by a directed communication to the
Illinois state police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
Illinois state police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the national crime information center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the Illinois state police. The information determined from these
record searches will be used by the police department in sending a notification
by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising where the
vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information. (1985 Code § 5-4-5)
   C.   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of the state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the police department shall notify the Illinois state
police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by
the Illinois state police shall be immediately forwarded to the village police
department for notification of owner. (1985 Code § 5-4-5; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-6: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE BY OWNER:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the police department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid. (1985 Code § 5-4-6)
6-4-7: SALE, DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE:
   A.   Owner Notified; Public Sale: Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or
unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer,
remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as
provided herein, the village police department shall cause it to be sold to the
highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale,
the police department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to
be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the
police department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of
the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to
be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim
the vehicle. In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the police department due
to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from
the registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified
notice will not be required. (1985 Code § 5-4-7; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Owner Unknown; Vehicle Sold Or Junked:
      1.   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
(7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Any vehicle
over four (4) years of age shall be treated the same as any vehicle over seven
(7) years of age.
      2.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining ownership; the
contacting of the registered owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in
person for a determination of disposition; and an examination of the Illinois
state police stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At
the expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner, the chief of police shall
authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
   C.   Record Of Sale Or Disposal:
      1.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the police
department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
police department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
      2.   All records shall be kept on uniform forms and be in custody of the
police department until ordered destroyed or disposed of by the board of
trustees.
   D.   Proceeds Of Sale: When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of
the village is authorized to be towed away by the chief of police and disposed
of as set forth in this section, the proceeds of the public sale or
disposition, after deduction of towing, storage and processing charges, shall
be deposited in the village treasury. (1985 Code § 5-4-7)
6-4-8: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES AND PERSONAL PROPERTY:
The police department is hereby authorized, in addition to any penalty that may
be provided therefor, to remove any unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned
motor vehicle or other personal property found upon any public thoroughfare,
other property of the village or on private real property with the consent of
the owner or lessee thereof, and shall keep the same in its custody and control
at such place as may be designated by police department until redeemed by the
owner; and all such unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles
or other personal property which is in the possession of the police department
shall be subject to the actual cost of removal or tow from the public place and
a reasonable storage charge as long as the same is in its possession and
custody. It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person in charge of a motor
vehicle or other personal property to leave or abandon the same upon the
streets or public places. (1985 Code § 5-4-8)
6-4-9: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE AND TOWING SERVICE:
Any police officer or towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his legal representative, lienholder or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter. (1985 Code § 5-4-9)
6-4-10: EXEMPTIONS:
A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is excluded
from the provisions of this chapter. (1985 Code § 5-4-10)
6-4-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, where no other penalty is
provided, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable hereunder as such. In all cases of violation, the penalty provisions
herein are cumulative, and the village may proceed on any other remedy, civil
or statutory, it may have. (1985 Code § 5-4-11; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: General Offense
6-5-2: Concealing Knowledge
6-5-3: Aid To An Offense
6-5-1: GENERAL OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to municipal government. (1985 Code § 5-5-1)
6-5-2: CONCEALING KNOWLEDGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal knowledge of the commission of
any offense or to conceal knowledge of any unlawful act as defined in this
chapter. (1985 Code § 5-5-2)
6-5-3: AID TO AN OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in any way or manner, to aid, abet,
counsel, advise or encourage any other person in the commission of any of the
acts mentioned herein or in any manner encourage the commission of such offense
defined in this chapter. (1985 Code § 5-5-3)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PERSON
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Disorderly Conduct And Houses
6-5A-2: Assault And Battery
6-5A-3: Assemblies
6-5A-4: Public Officers And Employees
6-5A-5: Fraud
6-5A-6: Public Intoxication
6-5A-7: Escape; Aid In Escape
6-5A-8: Furnishing Articles To Prisoners
6-5A-9: Spousal And Child Abuse
6-5A-10: Transporting Metal Items
6-5A-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT AND HOUSES:
   A.   Disorderly Conduct: Persons committing any of the following acts shall
be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct:
      1.   All persons who make, aid, countenance or assist in making any
improper noise, riot, disturbance, breach of peace or diversion tending to the
breach of peace within the village.
      2.   All persons who use any abusive, threatening, insulting, indecent,
profane or obscene language, or language calculated to occasion a breach of the
peace.
      3.   All persons who collect in bodies or crowds for unlawful purposes,
or for any purpose to the annoyance or disturbance of other persons. (1985 Code
§ 5-5A-1)
      4.   All persons who wilfully assault another or are engaged in, aid or
abet in any fight, quarrel or other disturbance in the village.
      5.   All persons who stand, loiter or stroll about in any place in the
village, waiting or seeking to obtain money or other valuable thing from others
by trick or fraud or to aid or assist therein.
      6.   All persons who engage in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to
obtain money or other valuable thing, or who shall aid, abet or in any manner
be concerned therein.
      7.   All persons found loitering about the public ways or parks, either
by day or night, without any known lawful means of support, or without being
able to give a satisfactory account of themselves.
      8.   All persons who have or carry any pistol, knife, dirk, knuckles,
slingshot or other dangerous weapon concealed on or about their person without
a state permit.
      9.   All persons who fail to disperse after being ordered to do so by a
person with police authority.
      10.   All persons who make or create loud or boisterous noises, whether
by person, actions or electronic or mechanical amplification.
   B.   Disorderly House: Every person who keeps or maintains any bawdy or
disorderly house, or any house or other place where any person is permitted or
suffered to make any improper noise or disturbance, or any house or other place
where any minor is permitted to drink intoxicating drinks of any kind or
gamble, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1985 Code § 5-5A-1; amd. 2016
Code; Ord. 21-08, 10-11-2021)
6-5A-2: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
   A.   Assault: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "assault" which
is hereby defined as any conduct which places another in reasonable
apprehension of receiving a battery.
   B.   Battery: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit battery. A
person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly, without legal
justification and by any means, causes bodily harm to an individual or makes
physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual. (1985
Code § 5-5A-2)
6-5A-3: ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Unlawful Assemblies: It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more
persons within the village to assemble together for any unlawful purpose, or,
being assembled, to act in concert to do an unlawful act with force and
violence against the property of the village, or the person or property of
another, or against the peace or to the terror of citizens or other persons, or
who shall make any movement or preparation therefor; and no person shall
knowingly suffer or permit any assemblage for the purpose of committing any
unlawful act or breach of the peace or any riotous, offensive or disorderly
conduct in or upon the premises owned by him or under his control within the
village.
   B.   Crowds: It shall be unlawful for any person to collect within the
village a crowd of people to the annoyance of the citizens thereof or to the
annoyance or injury of the public.
   C.   Riots: It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse
immediately to disperse upon an order to do so by a police officer when two (2)
or more persons are assembled for the purpose of disturbing the peace or for
the purpose of committing any unlawful act.
   D.   Disturbing Assemblies:
      1.   Religious: Any person who disturbs any congregation or assembly met
for religious worship by making a noise, or by rude and indecent behavior, or
profane discourse within a place of worship, or so near the same as to disturb
the order and solemnity of the meeting, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      2.   Funeral Processions: No person shall wilfully disturb or interrupt
any funeral procession. (1985 Code § 5-5A-3)
6-5A-4: PUBLIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Impersonation:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself to
be an employee, officer or a member of any village agency or department
including, but not limited to, the fire, police, building, public works and the
emergency services and disaster departments.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself to
be an employee, officer or member of any school district, park district,
sanitary district, public health district, township, library district, county,
state or municipal corporation or body politic.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent himself to
be an employee, officer or member of any police, fire, fraternal, veteran,
charitable or not for profit organization.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit or use in any manner
any decal, uniform, badge or insignia of any village, school district, park
district, sanitary district, public health district, township, library
district, county, state or municipal corporation or body politic; or any
fraternal, veteran, not for profit or charitable organization; or any
department or agency without its authorization.
   B.   Interfering With, Resisting An Officer: It shall be unlawful for any
person to wilfully interfere with, resist, delay, obstruct, molest or threaten
to molest any officer of the village in the exercise of his official duties.
   C.   Assistance To Police: It shall be unlawful for any citizen over the age
of eighteen (18) years to refuse or neglect to render assistance to any police
officer when called upon for such assistance or aid in the suppression of riot
or other unlawful assemblage or in the arrest of any person who has committed
an offense. (1985 Code § 5-5A-4)
6-5A-5: FRAUD:
   A.   False Pretenses: It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain any
food, drink, goods, wares or merchandise under false pretenses, or to enter any
public place and call for refreshments or other articles and receive and refuse
to pay for same, or depart without paying for or satisfying the person from
whom he received the food, goods, wares and merchandise.
   B.   Swindling: It shall be unlawful for any person who, by color or aid of
any trick or sleight of hand performance, or by fraud or by fraudulent scheme,
cards, dice or device, to win for himself or for another any money or property
or a representative of either. (1985 Code § 5-5A-5; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5A-6: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in a state of intoxication or drugged
condition on any highway, street, alley, thoroughfare or public place, or in
any private house or place, if such person has become a danger to himself or to
others as a result of his intoxication. (1985 Code § 5-5A-6; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5A-7: ESCAPE; AID IN ESCAPE:
It shall be unlawful for any person convicted of any offense or in lawful
custody to escape or attempt to escape from custody, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to aid or assist any person to escape from lawful confinement or
to assist any person to escape from the custody of any peace officer. (1985
Code § 5-5A-7)
6-5A-8: FURNISHING ARTICLES TO PRISONERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish or attempt to furnish or take
into jail or to deliver or attempt to deliver to any prisoner therein confined,
or in the custody of any officer, any weapon, tool, intoxicating liquors, drug
or other article without the consent of the officer in charge. (1985 Code § 5-
5A-8)
6-5A-9: SPOUSAL AND CHILD ABUSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, beat or mistreat his or her
spouse, child, stepchild or apprentice, or other child under his care. (1985
Code § 5-5A-9; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5A-10: TRANSPORTING METAL ITEMS:
All rails, pillars and columns of iron, steel or other metal which are being
transported over and along the streets in any manner shall be so loaded as to
avoid causing loud noises and disturbing the peace and quiet of the streets.
(1985 Code § 5-5A-10)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Damage To Property
6-5B-1-1: Injury And Damage To Property
6-5B-1-2: Trespass
6-5B-1-3: Petit Theft
6-5B-1-4: Billposting
6-5B-1-5: License Tags And Plates
6-5B-2: Use Of Public Ways And Property
6-5B-3: Fill Dirt Removal
6-5B-4: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
6-5B-5: Jumping Trains
6-5B-6: Burglar Tools
6-5B-7: Graffiti
6-5B-1: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
6-5B-1-1:   INJURY AND DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
   A.   Private Property:
      1.   No person shall cut, injure, mark or deface any building or property
not his own, or any tree, grass, shrub or walk in any square, street or park.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously
injure, deface, mutilate, remove, pull down, break, or in any manner interfere
with or molest or secrete or destroy any real or personal property belonging to
or under the control of any person. (1985 Code § 5-5B-1-1)
   B.   Public Property:
      1.   Any person who wilfully or carelessly breaks, damages, defaces or
destroys any sewer, culvert, catch basin, manhole, water pipe or hydrant laid
or placed in, upon or under any street, sidewalk, highway, thoroughfare or
public place within the village shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   No person shall injure, destroy, deface, or assist in injuring,
destroying or defacing, any bridge, fence, building, schoolhouse, house, public
building, street sign, sidewalk, tree, lamppost or any other kind of public
property.
   C.   Property Of Utilities: Any person who shall carelessly or maliciously
break, deface, disturb, interfere with, carry away or in any way injure or
destroy any electric light, globe or any part of or appurtenances to any lamp
or light of any kind used in or upon or about any street, alley or public place
or who shall carelessly or maliciously break, injure, destroy or in any way
disturb or interfere with any electric light, telephone line, or any
appurtenance thereto, at any place, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1985 Code § 5-5B-1-1; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5B-1-2:   TRESPASS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass within the village
upon either public or private property. Without constituting any limitation
upon the provisions hereof, any of the following acts by any person shall be
deemed included among those that constitute trespass in violation of the
provisions of this section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at
any time to prevent or suppress any violation of this section and of the
following enumerated acts:
   A.   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another, including
any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any owner or
occupant thereof.
   B.   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof.
   C.   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof.
   D.   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1985 Code § 5-5B-1-2)
   E.   To take down any fence or to open any gate in or on the property of
another without the consent of the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof.
(1985 Code § 5-5B-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5B-1-3:   PETIT THEFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "petit theft" which is hereby
defined as a theft when the property taken is of a value of less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (1985 Code § 5-5B-1-3; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5B-1-4:   BILLPOSTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, post, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk; or upon any tree,
lamppost, hitchpost, telephone pole, or hydrant; or upon any private wall, door
or gate, without the consent in writing of the owner of the wall, door or gate;
provided, however, that this section shall not prevent posting by proper
village and county officials of election signs, polling place signs and other
signs or placards necessary under the law to the conduct of elections. (1985
Code § 5-5B-1-4; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5B-1-5:   LICENSE TAGS AND PLATES:
Every person who shall, without the consent of the owner or licensee, take,
carry away, detach or mutilate any metal plate, tag, badge or license worn by
or attached to any person, animal or vehicle or attached to any article,
substance or thing whatsoever as a mark of identification or otherwise in
compliance with the requirements of any provision of this code or other village
ordinance, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (1985 Code § 5-5B-1-5)
6-5B-2: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY:
No person shall, in the public ways or on public property:
   A.   Climb a tree or climb or walk upon any wall or fence.
   B.   Enter upon any portion where persons are prohibited from going, as
indicated by sign or notice.
   C.   Fish or bathe in any of the waters except such portions thereof as may
be designated for such purposes, and under such regulations as may be
prescribed by the village.
   D.   Enter upon any part which is in an unfinished state or under
construction. (1985 Code § 5-5B-2)
6-5B-3: FILL DIRT REMOVAL:
No person shall dig, cut or remove any soil, sod, gravel, sand or earth from
any street or other public place without a permit from the village or from any
premises not his own without the consent of the owner. (1985 Code § 5-5B-3;
amd. 2016 Code)
6-5B-4: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any electric
fence, any barbed wire fence or any fence which has spikes, barbs, sharply
pointed pickets, sharp projections or sharp protrusions; except, that barbed
wire is permitted on top of fencing around high voltage or high tension lines
maintained by a public utility and in a manufacturing district.
   B.   It is hereby prohibited to erect any barbed wire fence or fence having
spurs on the top, which fence is adjacent to a public street, sidewalk or
parkway. Fences over six feet (6') high with barbs or spurs are permitted,
however, such fences shall be not less than two feet (2') from the street right
of way line. (1985 Code § 5-5B-4)
6-5B-5: JUMPING TRAINS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play on or about any railroad track,
depot, locomotive or car within the village, or climb upon or jump from any car
or train of cars, or from one car to another. It is the duty of the police
force to vigorously enforce this section, and all railroad employees shall be
empowered to arrest all persons found violating the same. (1985 Code § 5-5B-5)
6-5B-6: BURGLAR TOOLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession any key, tool,
instrument, device, or explosive suitable for use in breaking into a building,
house trailer, watercraft, aircraft, motor vehicle, railroad car, or any
depository designed for the safekeeping of property, or any part thereof, with
intent to enter any such place and with intent to commit a felony or theft as
described under Illinois law. (1985 Code § 5-5B-6; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5B-7: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Prohibited: It is unlawful to any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise
place upon the surface of any structure or wall that is privately or publicly
owned, any word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch or letters where the contents
thereof are visible to any member of the general public without the consent of
the owner and without compliance with village ordinances.
   B.   Penalties: Upon conviction for violation of the conduct prohibited in
subsection A of this section, there shall be imposed a fine of not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). In addition, a mandatory requirement shall be imposed by any court
finding a person guilty of violating the provisions of this section, as a
condition to any probation or supervision, that full and complete restitution
be made to the owner of the property for expenses incurred in the removal of
the material and repair of the structure or wall.
   C.   Removal And Restoration Requirements: It shall be the duty of the owner
of the structure or wall, upon inscription or representation prohibited in this
section, to remove such inscription or representation and to otherwise repair
or restore the structure or wall to its prior condition within three (3) days
from the occurrence of the offense. The owner of the property shall be entitled
to restitution and compensation for the direct costs incurred in the repair and
restoration of his property from any person convicted of the prohibited
activity upon the submission of receipts evidencing payments of such costs, and
provided the court entering the finding or conviction for the offense shall so
order. (Ord. 89-7, 5-22-1989; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AFFECTING PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
SECTION:
6-5C-1: Injurious Articles On Public Ways
6-5C-2: Throwing Missiles
6-5C-3: Expectorating In Public
6-5C-4: Abandoned Containers
6-5C-5: Reckless Skating Or Skateboarding
6-5C-1: INJURIOUS ARTICLES ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Materials On Thoroughfares: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit, place or allow to remain in or upon any public thoroughfare any
material or substance injurious to person or property.
   B.   Articles In Windows: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or
keep on any windowsill, porch or other projection above the first story of any
building abutting on any sidewalk, any article which might do injury by falling
upon any person on the sidewalk in front of such building, unless said article
be securely fastened or protected by screens. (1985 Code § 5-5C-1)
6-5C-2: THROWING MISSILES:
No person shall throw any stone or other missile upon or at any building,
railroad car, vehicle or other public or private property, or upon or at any
person in any street, avenue, alley, lane, public place or enclosed or
unenclosed ground, or aid or abet in the same. (1985 Code § 5-5C-2; amd. 2016
Code)
6-5C-3: EXPECTORATING IN PUBLIC:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any public
property. (1985 Code § 5-5C-3; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5C-4: ABANDONED CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox or ice chest, of a capacity of
one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door
which may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, and it
shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or manager of such place to knowingly
permit such abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain
there in such condition. (1985 Code § 5-5C-5; amd. 2016 Code)
6-5C-5: RECKLESS SKATING OR SKATEBOARDING:
No person shall roller skate, ice skate, rollerblade, or ride a skateboard, or
use any other sporting equipment manufactured with rollers or blades, in a
reckless manner, or at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper, having
regard to the number of people and the use thereof, or so as to endanger life
or limb, or damage the property of any person; provided, however, that nothing
herein contained shall be construed to prohibit any exhibition of, or contests
in fast or fancy skating on such portions of any ice pond or surface used for
roller skating as may be set aside for that purpose by the board of trustees or
other regulatory body. (Ord. 93-22, 12-13-1993)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Admission Fees; Fraudulently Avoiding Payment
6-5D-2: Sound Amplification
6-5D-3: Games And Athletic Events
6-5D-4: Picnics; Open Air Dances
6-5D-1: ADMISSION FEES; FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person fraudulently to enter, without payment of
the proper admission fee, any theater, ballroom, lecture hall, concert hall or
other place where admission fees are charged; provided, however, that nothing
herein contained shall be deemed to prohibit or restrict the free admission of
police officers engaged in the performance of police duties to any place of
public entertainment or amusement. (1985 Code § 5-5D-2)
6-5D-2: SOUND AMPLIFICATION:
   A.   Permit Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain,
operate, use or employ any loudspeaker, electronically or mechanically
operated, producing sound, which sound is amplified and heard over any public
street, public place or private property other than the property of the person
so maintaining, operating, using or employing the same, without first having
obtained a permit. A permit shall be issued only for parades authorized by the
village board, political speeches and matters of public issue. The permit shall
be issued without fee and subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   No such amplification device shall be employed on or after eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. on any prevailing day and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the
next day. (1985 Code § 5-5D-3)
      2.   No permittee shall use, operate or employ such device within a
radius of two (2) blocks of a place of worship when such place of worship is in
session, or within a radius of two (2) blocks of a school when such school is
in session. (1985 Code § 5-5D-3; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   No permittee shall allow any lewd, obscene, profane, indecent
language or sounds, advertisement or false representation of any matter to
emanate from said device.
      4.   No permittee shall allow the noise from said sound device to be
amplified greater than is tolerable to the human ear by an ordinary person
within hearing distance and, in any event, no greater than the maximum levels
in a use district based on sound levels measured with a sound level meter as
set forth in subsection
10-3-5B of this code.
   B.   Loud Noises: It shall be unlawful for any person, at any time, to
maintain, operate, use or employ any electronic or mechanical amplification
device or to make or allow noises from any source whatsoever which may become
loud and intolerable to the ordinary person, or which sound or noise shall be
greater than the maximum levels based on sound levels in a use district
measured with a sound level meter as set forth in subsection
10-3-5B of this code. (1985 Code § 5-5D-3)
6-5D-3: GAMES AND ATHLETIC EVENTS:
   A.   No person shall engage in any athletic game or sport in the village
except such portions thereof as may be designated for that purpose by the board
of trustees and then only under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed
by said board.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball upon
any public thoroughfare in the village.
   C.   It is hereby prohibited to play any game or any sport or do any action
in the nature of a game upon the public streets. (1985 Code § 5-5D-4)
6-5D-4: PICNICS; OPEN AIR DANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to rent or use, or allow to be used, any
yard, ground, grove or other real estate within the village for public picnics
or open air dances to be conducted in such manner as to be an annoyance or
injury to the public. All public picnics or open air dances shall be subject to
the issuance of a permit by the village in accordance with the licensing and
permit provisions of this code. (1985 Code § 5-5D-5)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY
SECTION:
6-5E-1: Obscenity
6-5E-1-1: Definitions
6-5E-1-2: Public Indecency
6-5E-1-3: Obscene Publications And Photographs
6-5E-1-4: Admissions To Obscene Performances
6-5E-1-5: Minors
6-5E-1-6: Exceptions To Provisions
6-5E-1-7: Revocation Of License
6-5E-2: Prostitution And Related Offenses
6-5E-3: Wagering Services
6-5E-1: OBSCENITY:
6-5E-1-1:   DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section
 6-5E-1, the following words shall have the meanings indicated unless their
context clearly requires otherwise:
   DISTRIBUTE: To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
   EXHIBIT: To show or display, offer or present for inspection or produce in
public so that it may be taken into possession or viewed by persons.
   HARMFUL TO MINORS: That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic
abuse, when it:
   A.   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest of
minors;
   B.   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community as
a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors; and
   C.   Is utterly without redeeming social importance for minors.
   KNOWINGLY: Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inquiry of all of the following:
   A.   The character and content of any material described herein which is
reasonably susceptible to examination by the defendant.
   B.   Being aware of the character of the matter of live conduct.
   C.   The age of the minor; provided, however, that an honest mistake shall
constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the areola, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE: That quality of any description or representation, in whatever
form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic abuse:
   A.   When, taken as a whole, to the average person applying contemporary
community standards in a patently offensive way:
   1. Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest of
adults or special audiences; and
   2. Is offensive with respect to what is suitable material.
   B.   When, taken as a whole, lacks serious artistic, literary, scientific,
political, educational or other merits.
   PATRON OF A PLACE OF OBSCENITY: Any person who shall patronize, frequent, be
found in, or be an inmate of any premises used for the unlawful purposes set
forth in this section
6-5E-1.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE: Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Acts of masturbation, excretory functions, homosexuality,
sexual intercourse or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed
genitals, pubic area, buttocks or, if such person be a female, breasts, normal
or perverted, actual or simulated.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   THEATER, CONCERT HALL (Or Other Similar Establishment Which Is Primarily
Devoted To Theatrical Performances): A building, playhouse, room, hall or other
place having permanently affixed seats so arranged that a body of spectators
can have an unobstructed view of the stage, upon which theatrical or vaudeville
performances or similar forms of artistic expression are presented, and where
such performances are not incidental to the promoting of the sale of food,
drink or other merchandise for which a village license for a theater is in full
force and effect, and which performance, when taken as a whole, does not lack
serious, artistic, literary, scientific, political or educational value. (1985
Code § 5-5E-1-1)
6-5E-1-2:   PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place
open to the public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene
conduct or language, or to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words
in any public place or any other place where other persons are present or
indecently to exhibit any animal, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-20. (1985 Code § 5-5E-1-2; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity, or
in any indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public place, or in any such
place to make any indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts
thereof or the private parts of another, or to conduct himself or herself in a
lewd or lascivious manner, or for a male to appear in any such place in a dress
not belonging to his sex.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person in a commercial establishment,
place of public accommodation or private club to employ or have on his premises
any person who exhibits nudity to his patrons.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit nudity in any commercial
establishment, place of public accommodation or private club to the patrons
thereof.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person, while acting as a waiter, waitress
or entertainer in an establishment which serves food, beverages or food and
beverages including, but not limited to, alcoholic beverages, for consumption
on the premises of such establishment, to:
      1.   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft,
perineum, anal region or pubic hair region; or
      2.   Expose any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
      3.   Expose any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
A person shall be deemed to be a waiter, waitress or entertainer if such person
acts in that capacity without regard to whether or not such person is paid any
compensation by the management of the establishment in which the activity is
performed.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, while participating in any live
act, demonstration or exhibition in any public place, place open to the public,
or place open to public view, to:
      1.   Expose his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft,
perineum, anal region or pubic hair region; or
      2.   Expose any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, natal cleft, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
      3.   Expose any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for a person to cause, permit, procure, counsel or
assist any person to expose or simulate exposure prohibited in subsections E
and F of this section. (1985 Code § 5-5E-1-2)
6-5E-1-3:   OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS AND PHOTOGRAPHS:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sell, loan for monetary
consideration, distribute or exhibit:
   A.   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film or
similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body
which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse and which is
obscene; or
   B.   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter, however reproduced, or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in section
 6-5E-1-1 of this chapter, or explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or
narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic
abuse and which, taken as a whole, is obscene; or
   C.   Any material which is harmful to minors. (1985 Code § 5-5E-1-3)
6-5E-1-4:   ADMISSIONS TO OBSCENE PERFORMANCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit for a monetary
consideration or knowingly to sell to any person an admission ticket or pass or
knowingly to admit a person for a monetary consideration to premises whereon is
exhibited a motion picture, show, or live or other presentation which, in whole
or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse and which
is obscene.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to admit any person to
premises whereon there is exhibited a motion picture, show, or live or other
presentation which, in whole or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct or
sadomasochistic abuse and which is obscene. (1985 Code § 5-5E-1-4)
6-5E-1-5:   MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To knowingly sell or loan for a monetary consideration, distribute or
exhibit to a minor any of the prohibited materials described in section
6-5E-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   To knowingly for a monetary consideration exhibit, sell, or admit a
minor to a premises whereon the prohibited sales in subsection
6-5E-1-4A of this chapter are performed.
   C.   To knowingly admit a minor to the premises whereon the prohibited acts
in subsection
6-5E-1-4B of this chapter are depicted.
   D.   To knowingly exhibit for, or without monetary consideration, or
knowingly to sell to any person an admission ticket or pass, or knowingly to
admit a person for, or without monetary consideration, to premises whereon
there is exhibited a motion picture, show, or live or other presentation which,
in whole or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sadomasochistic abuse
and which is harmful to minors.
   E.   Under eighteen (18) years of age to state falsely, either orally or in
writing, that he is not under the age of eighteen (18) years, or to present and
offer to any person any evidence of age and identity which is false or not
actually his own for the purpose of ordering, obtaining, viewing or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure or view any of the prohibited materials and
unlawful acts set forth in subsections
6-5E-1-2C through F and sections
6-5E-1-3 and
6-5E-1-4 of this chapter.
   F.   Under eighteen (18) years of age to be present on any premises where
any of the unlawful acts described in subsections
6-5E-1-2C through F and sections
6-5E-1-3 and
 6-5E-1-4 of this chapter are being committed.
   G.   In a commercial establishment, place of public accommodation or private
club, to employ or have on his premises a minor who exhibits nudity to his
patrons.
   H.   For any minor to exhibit nudity in any commercial establishment, place
of accommodation or private club to the patrons thereof. (1985 Code § 5-5E-1-5)
6-5E-1-6:   EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in sections
 6-5E-1-3 and
6-5E-1-4 of this chapter shall prohibit any public library or any library
operated by an accredited institution of higher education from circulating
material to any person, provided such circulation is in aid of a legitimate
scientific or educational purpose, and it shall be an affirmative defense in
any prosecution for a violation of this section
 6-5E-1 that the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific or
educational purposes.
   B.   Provisions of subsections
6-5E-1-2C to F, inclusive, of this chapter shall not apply to a theater,
concert hall or similar establishment which is primarily devoted to theatrical
performances.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit any parent from distributing to
his child any of the unlawful materials described in section
 6-5E-1-3 of this chapter. (1985 Code § 5-5E-1-6)
6-5E-1-7:   REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The license of any person or employee thereof directly involved in violations
of this section
 6-5E-1 may be revoked by the village president. No such license so revoked
shall be reinstated until the lapse of a period of one year after such
revocation. Such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. Any action
for revocation shall be in accordance with the provisions of section
4-1-9 of this code. (1985 Code § 5-5E-1-7)
6-5E-2: PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENSES:
   A.   Soliciting For Prostitution: It shall be unlawful for any person to
pursue, solicit or advertise in any manner his or her vocation as a prostitute,
or for any person to advertise the profession of a prostitute, or solicit for a
prostitute.
   B.   House Of Prostitution: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
assist in the keeping of a house of ill fame or prostitution or knowingly to
reside therein or knowingly to rent, lease or permit any person to occupy any
house or room owned, leased or controlled by him for this purpose.
   C.   Frequenting A House Of Prostitution: It shall be unlawful for any
person to be a patron of a house of ill fame or prostitution. (1985 Code § 5-
5E-2)
6-5E-3: WAGERING SERVICES:
It shall be unlawful for any person not exempted by subsection
4-2-9D of this code: (1985 Code § 5-5E-3; amd. Ord. 06-16, 9-11-2006)
   A.   To accept, receive or transmit, with or without fee, any wager or bet
on any horserace or sport, which wager or bet is hereafter placed at, delivered
to, or transmitted by wire or phone to any racetrack, place of sport or
bookmaker where wagers or bets are received or placed.
   B.   To contract to accept or receive, deliver or transmit by wire or phone
wagers or bets to any racetrack or place of sport or bookmaker where wagers or
bets are received or placed.
   C.   To keep or maintain any premises for the purpose of accepting,
receiving, delivering or transmitting wagers or bets to any racetrack or place
of sport where wagers or bets are received or placed.
   D.   To use or place a wager or bet with any other person for the purpose of
placing at, delivery to or transmitting by wire or phone to any racetrack,
place of sport or bookmaker, said wager or bet.
   E.   To knowingly lease, let or permit any premises to be used in whole or
in part for any of the unlawful purposes described in this section. (1985 Code
§ 5-5E-3)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Curfew
6-6-2: Encouraging Delinquency
6-6-3: Parental And Guardian Responsibility
6-6-4: Endangering The Life Or Health Of A Child
6-6-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Rules And Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following
terms, phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meanings given them
in this subsection. When not inconsistent within the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular and words in the singular include the plural. The word "shall" is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious injury to persons or property.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   JUVENILE: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a juvenile: 1) as a natural or
adoptive parent; 2) as a legal guardian; 3) as a person who stands in loco
parentis; or 4) as a person to whom legal custody has been given by court
order.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, common areas,
shopping centers, private businesses, and similar areas that are open to the
use of the public.
   B.   Age And Hour Restrictions: In shall be unlawful for any person under
seventeen (17) to be or remain in or upon a public place within the Village
during the following hours:
      1.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Friday and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Saturday.
      2.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Saturday and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Sunday.
      3.   Between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   C.   Exceptions And Affirmative Defenses: It shall not be a violation of
this section, and it shall otherwise be an affirmative defense, if a juvenile
is:
      1.   Accompanied by the juvenile's parent, custodian or guardian.
      2.   Accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such juvenile to
take said parent's place in accompanying said juvenile for a designated period
of time and for purposes within a specified area.
      3.   When a juvenile is on the sidewalk or property where the juvenile
resides, or on either side of or across the street from the place where the
juvenile resides and the adult owner or resident of that property has given
permission for the juvenile to be there.
      4.   When the juvenile has been married.
      5.   In the case of an operator of an establishment, when the operator
has notified the police that a juvenile was present on the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
      6.   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         a.   Lawful employment;
         b.   A school sanctioned activity;
         c.   An emergency situation, or errand of urgent necessity involving
the protection of persons or property;
         d.   An activity involving the exercise of the juvenile's rights
protected under the first amendment of the United States constitution and
article I, sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Illinois constitution, or both, such as
freedom of speech, religion and the right of assembly; or
         e.   Engaged in the interstate or international travel originating
outside the state of Illinois or originating in the state of Illinois.
   D.   Operator Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for an operator of an
establishment to knowingly permit a juvenile to remain in his/her establishment
in violation of this section. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge that a
reasonable operator should be expected to have concerning the patron of the
establishment. The standard for "knowingly" shall be applied through an
objective test, whether a reasonable person in the operator's position would
have known that the patron was a juvenile in violation of this section.
   E.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent of a
juvenile to knowingly permit the juvenile to remain in any village public place
in violation of this section. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge that a
reasonable parent should be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a
juvenile in his/her custody.
   F.   Duties Of Police Officers:
      1.   It shall be the duties of the police officers upon discovering any
juvenile unattended by an adult to:
         a.   Inquire of such juvenile their age, place of residence and
telephone number.
         b.   Inquire as to why the juvenile is out past curfew.
         c.   Assess whether the activity the juvenile is engaged in is/was
protected under this section.
         d.   Assess whether such an exception or defense is reasonable given
the surrounding circumstances, such as time elapsed from beginning or end of
said activity, allowing the juvenile a reasonable amount of time to go to or
return from such activity without violating this section.
      2.   After the inquiries set out in subsection F1 of this section are
made by the officer, and no exceptions or defenses are applicable, it shall be
the duties of the police officers to promptly notify the parents, guardians, or
custodians of such juvenile that such juvenile has been detained for violations
of the provisions of this section and to report to the police station for the
return of said juvenile to their custody. Whenever it is impractical to do so,
the said juvenile may be returned forthwith to his home or to the person
entitled to his custody.
   G.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 04-09, 8-9-2004)
6-6-2: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person, by any act or neglect,
to encourage, aid or cause a child to come within the purview of the juvenile
authorities.
   B.   Driving With Suspended Or Revoked License: It shall be unlawful for any
person, after notice that a driver's license of any child has been suspended or
revoked to permit such child to operate a motor vehicle during the period that
such driver's license is suspended.
   C.   Tobacco Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or give
away, directly or indirectly, to any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years any cigarettes, tobacco or any compounds of tobacco used in filling up or
making up of a cigarette or to give or sell any cigarette papers to minors.
(1985 Code § 5-6-2)
6-6-3: PARENTAL AND GUARDIAN RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them for the purposes of this section:
   LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of this state, but does not include a person appointed guardian
or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act, as amended, in the
state of Illinois 1 .
   MINOR: Any person who has not yet attained the age of nineteen (19).
   B.   Parental And Guardian Responsibility Required: It shall be unlawful for
the parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such
parent or legal guardian to fail to exercise proper parental responsibility by
allowing or permitting said minor to commit any violation of a village
ordinance or state statute concerning vandalism, battery, curfew, disorderly
conduct, fireworks, obscene conduct, indecent exposure, trespass or possession
of alcoholic liquor, cannabis or controlled substances, or any other offense of
wilful or malicious acts to persons or property.
   C.   Violation: A parent or legal guardian shall be presumed to have allowed
or permitted said minor to have committed a violation of a village ordinance or
state statute under all of the following conditions:
      1.   Said minor has been either adjudicated to be in violation of any
ordinance or state statute as described in subsection B of this section; or has
been charged with the violation of any ordinance or state statute as described
in subsection B of this section (except if found to be not guilty); or has
incurred nonjudicial sanctions from any peace officer, police officer or
conservator of the peace resulting from an admission of guilt to an offense of
an ordinance or state statute as described in subsection B of this section; and
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian has received a written notice by
certified mail (return receipt requested) or by personal service in
substantially the following form: (1985 Code § 5-6-3)
            LEGAL NOTICE
TO: (Parents' Names)
FROM: Village of Hodgkins
You are hereby notified that (minor's name)  has been involved with a violation
of an ordinance or State statute concerning vandalism, battery, curfew,
disorderly conduct, fireworks, obscene conduct, indecent exposure, trespass or
possession of alcoholic liquor, cannabis or controlled substance, or any other
offense of wilful or malicious acts to persons or property.
If said minor is again involved with a violation of one of the above type
ordinances or State statutes, you may be found guilty of the offense of
Parental Responsibility. Conviction for said offense can result in a fine of
not less than $25 nor more than $500. You are hereby notified that you must
exercise proper parental responsibility over said minor by controlling his
unlawful conduct.
 
(1985 Code § 5-6-3; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Said minor, within two (2) years of the receipt of said notice by
the parent or legal guardian, has been either adjudicated to have committed,
has been charged with the violation (except if found to be not guilty), or has
admitted to having committed any violation of any ordinance or state statute as
described in subsection B of this section.
   D.   Village Policy:
      1.   Supervision: It is the policy of the village to permit the village
prosecutor to use the provisions of the unified code of corrections, as
amended, of the state of Illinois pertaining to supervision in order to further
the ends of justice, restitution and purposes of this section.
      2.   Court Appearance Of Parents: It is the policy of the village that a
parent or legal guardian of a minor be notified and required to appear in court
whenever that minor is charged with a violation of an ordinance or state
statute which requires the minor's appearance in court. To this end, it is
hereby directed that a notice in substantially the following form be sent to
the parents or legal guardians of the minor:
            LEGAL NOTICE
TO: (Parents' Names)
FROM: Village of Hodgkins
You are hereby notified that  (minor's name)  has been charged with an offense
which is a violation of a Village ordinance or State statute and which requires
the appearance of said minor in court. You are further notified that one of the
parents of said minor must appear in court before the case will be tried or be
disposed of.
If you fail to appear, the Village Prosecutor has been directed to have issued
a subpoena to bring you into court. Failure to obey a subpoena can result in
contempt of court, with a fine or imprisonment as the penalty.
 
The Village Prosecutor is hereby directed to have subpoenas issued whenever a
parent or legal guardian of a minor does not appear in court after the first
two (2) times said case has been before the court. (1985 Code § 5-6-3)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
6-6-4: ENDANGERING THE LIFE OR HEALTH OF A CHILD:
   A.   A person commits endangering the life or health of a child when he or
she knowingly: 1) causes or permits the life or health of a child under the age
of eighteen (18) to be endangered; or 2) causes or permits a child to be placed
in circumstances that endanger the child's life or health. It is not a
violation of this section for a person to relinquish a child in accordance with
the Abandoned Newborn Infant Protection Act.
   B.   A trier of fact may infer that a child six (6) years of age or younger
is unattended if that child is left in a motor vehicle for more than ten (10)
minutes.
   C.   "Unattended" means either: 1) not accompanied by a person fourteen (14)
years of age or older; or 2) if accompanied by a person fourteen (14) years of
age or older, out of sight of that person. (Ord. 17-17, 12-11-2017)
CHAPTER 7
WEAPONS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Identification Card Required
6-7-2: Concealed Weapons
6-7-3: Discharge Of Firearms; Bonfires
6-7-4: Bows And Arrows
6-7-1: IDENTIFICATION CARD REQUIRED:
No person, except one exempt by law, may acquire or possess any firearm, stun
gun, taser or firearm ammunition within the village without having a firearm
owner's identification card previously issued in his name, according to the
laws of the state or this chapter. (1985 Code § 5-7-1; amd. 2016 Code)
6-7-2: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
   A.   No person in the village shall wear or carry concealed about his person
any slingshot, metallic knuckles, bowie knife, dirk, razor, chemical mace or
like substance, or other dangerous or deadly weapons, or display or flourish
any such weapon in a boisterous or threatening manner; provided, that the
provisions of this section shall not be held to apply to any peace officer
while in the discharge of his duty, nor to any person summoned by an officer to
aid him in making any arrest or preserving the peace. (1985 Code § 5-7-2; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   No person in the village shall wear or conceal about his person a
concealed firearm without full compliance with 430 Illinois Compiled Statutes
66/1 et seq. (2016 Code)
6-7-3: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS; BONFIRES:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall hunt and no person shall fire or discharge
within the village any cannon, anvil, gun, pistol, air rifle, or firearm, or
set off, fire or explode any torpedo or firecracker, fireball, rocket, or other
fireworks whatever, or make or kindle any bonfire; provided, the discharge of
firearms, the setting off or exploding of firearms and the making of bonfires
upon national holidays and in the celebration of other public and general
events, or the discharge of blank cartridges by a military company when on
parade and in command of the commanding officer, or the discharge of firearms
by any village officer or other person in the discharge of any legal duty when
the same is done in such manner as not to endanger the safety of any person or
injure any property, nor the discharge of firearms in duly licensed shooting
galleries, shall not be deemed a violation of this section. (1985 Code § 5-7-3)
   B.   Report Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any
firearm, except at a firing range, without reporting such discharge to the
police department as soon as possible. Any person violating this subsection
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (1985 Code § 5-7-3; amd. 2016 Code)
6-7-4: BOWS AND ARROWS:
Hunting with the use of bows and arrows is hereby prohibited. (1985 Code § 5-7-
3)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Offenses
6-8-3: Penalty
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
All terms and phrases used herein shall have the same meaning as ascribed to
them in the Cannabis Control Act 1  and the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act 2
and amendments thereto; except, should the term "person" or "persons" be
limited therein to a natural person who has attained the age of eighteen (18)
years or more, said limitation is specifically excluded herein, and the term
"person" or "persons" is made applicable to all natural persons. (Ord. 16-13,
9-12-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1, et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 600/1, et seq.
6-8-2: OFFENSES:
   A.   Offense Of Possession Of Cannabis: A person commits the offense of
possession of cannabis by knowingly possessing ten grams (10.0 g) or less of
any substance containing cannabis unless permitted or authorized to do so
pursuant to the Cannabis Control Act 1 .
   B.   Offense Of Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia: A person commits the
offense of possession of drug paraphernalia by knowingly possessing an item of
drug paraphernalia, as defined by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/2, with
the intent to use it ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis
into the human body, or in preparing cannabis for that use. This does not apply
to a person legally authorized to possess cannabis under law. (Ord. 16-13, 9-
12-2016)
 
Notes
1 3. 720 ILCS 550/1, et seq.
6-8-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to a mandatory fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00), plus court costs.
   B.   Proceedings to enforce violations of this chapter may be initiated and
conducted in accordance with and pursuant to the provisions of the Village
ordinances providing for administrative adjudication of Code violations or by
any other means provided by law. (Ord. 16-13, 9-12-2016)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
7-1-2: Procedure For Issuance Of Citations (P Tickets)
7-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
In lieu of using any section, or in addition to any section of this chapter,
the officer issuing a citation may issue it by using any of the sections of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, which sections of said Illinois Vehicle Code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes, and all amendments made from time to time, are
hereby incorporated by reference as a part of this chapter, and every numbered
section in said Illinois Vehicle Code shall be referred to by letters "H"
prefixing said section number. All citations so issued shall be issued in the
name of the Village of Hodgkins, and referred to in the uniform traffic ticket
or complaint as an ordinance violation. The penalties for traffic violations in
this chapter shall apply to said violations. (1985 Code § 6-1-1; amd. Ord. 95-
2, 2-13-1995)
7-1-2: PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS (P TICKETS):
   A.   Applicable Sections: Whenever a police officer is authorized to arrest
a person without a warrant because of a violation of any section or provision
of this Code in respect to any of the following sections which shall include
the following sections from the Illinois Vehicle Code: (Ord. 92-8, 4-13-1992)
 
Subject                        Village Code Section Violated Settlement Amount
Parking                        7-5-1 et seq.                 $ 25.00
Parking in designated parking
space for people with                                         
disabilities:
 If paid within 15 days of                                  250.00
  issuance
 If paid after 15 days of                                   350.00
  issuance
No vehicle sticker or improper 7-2-5C                        25.00
vehicle sticker
Bicycle                                                     25.00
 
625 ILCS         Description Settlement
Section Violated             Amount
625 ILCS            Description                                      Settlement
Section Violated                                                     Amount
5/3-413             Expired registration sticker                     $25.00
5/12-101            Unsafe motor vehicle                             25.00
5/12-201(a)         Driving without lighted lamp (motorcycle)        25.00
5/12-201(b)         Driving without lights when required             25.00
5/12-201(b)         No taillights                                    25.00
5/12-201(b)         Only one red taillight                           25.00
5/12-201(c)         No rear registration light                       25.00
5/12-205.1          No lights when required (specific vehicle)       25.00
5/12-208            No signal lamp or device                         25.00
5/12-211            Improper lighting                                25.00
5/12-212            Illegal lights (red or flashing)                 25.00
5/12-215            Illegal use of oscillating, rotating or flashing 25.00
                    lights
5/12-301            Defective or no brakes                           25.00
5/12-401            Use of illegal tires (studs)                     25.00
5/12-405(c)         Use of unsafe tire                               25.00
5/12-501            No safety glass                                  25.00
5/12-502            Mirrors                                          25.00
5/12-503(a),(c),(e) Obstruction of driver's view                     25.00
5/12-503(d)         No windshield wiper or cleaning device           25.00
5/12-601            Defective horn                                   25.00
5/12-602            Muffler (loud, excessive noise; no muffler)      25.00
5/12-603            No seat belts                                    25.00
5/12-606            Tow trucks (identification)                      25.00
5/12-607            Vehicle suspension system                        25.00
5/12-608            Vehicle bumpers                                  25.00
5/12-610            Wearing headset receiver while driving           25.00
5/12-702(a)         No flags, flares, warning devices carried        25.00
5/12-702(c)         No flags, flares, warning devices displayed      25.00
5/12-703            Dripping oil on roadway                          25.00
5/12-710            Inadequate or no splash guards                   25.00
5/13-111            No valid safety sticker                          25.00
 
(Ord. 95-2, 2-13-1995; amd. Ord. 96-7, 4-8-1996; 2016 Code; Ord. 19-04, 5-13-
2019)
Said police officer may, in lieu of the filing of a complaint in court, in the
first instance, issue to such alleged violator, a citation:
      1.   Advising said person that he has violated a specific ordinance;
      2.   Requesting him to make payment in the amount applicable to said
alleged violation as set forth above as settlement of said violation claim; and
      3.   Informing him that, upon failure to so settle, a complaint will be
filed in the Circuit Court of Cook County charging him with such violation.
   B.   Settlement:
      1.   Pursuant to said citation, the person so accused of said violation
may settle and compromise the violation claim in respect to such Code violation
by paying to the Village the applicable amount as shown in the schedule set
forth as the settlement amount in subsection A of this section within a period
of fifteen (15) days of the time said alleged offense was committed. (Ord. 92-
8, 4-13-1992)
      2.   Such payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions
contained in the aforesaid citation, at the Office of the Village Comptroller
who shall issue a receipt for the money so received and promptly remit said
amount to the Village accounts to be credited to the proper Municipal fund.
(Ord. 92-8, 4-13-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Final Notice; Penalty: In the event that the person to whom said
citation is issued fails to settle and pay said violation within the time
specified in the citation, a final notice shall be mailed to him. When, in
fact, the final notice has been mailed, the violation may then be settled and
compromised by paying two (2) times the amount set forth in the schedule in
subsection A of this section within the time specified in the final notice.
   D.   Issuance Of Complaint: In the event that the person to whom the
citation is issued fails to settle and pay said violation claim within the time
specified in the final notice (if one is served or mailed to him), then the
police officer is authorized to cause the citation (notice to appear P ticket)
to be served upon said alleged violator and is authorized to file the same as a
complaint in the Circuit Court of Cook County and prosecute the same. The
officer, as an alternative, may file a formal complaint in the Circuit Court of
Cook County in lieu of the citation. (Ord. 92-8, 4-13-1992)
   E.   Court Penalty; Settlement Before Court Date: In the event that payment
is not made within the time prescribed in the final notice, and the citation or
complaint is filed in the Circuit Court, payment of any fine and costs shall be
in such amounts as may be determined and established by the circuit court, but
not to exceed the sum as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for any one violation; provided, that the offenses may be
settled and compromised for the amount specified in the notice to appear at
least three (3) working days before the court date. Such amount shall be three
(3) times the amount set forth in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 92-8, 4-
13-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
   F.   Correction Of Violation: The payment of an amount as settlement herein
will not excuse the securing of and the payment of a license fee provided in
this code or correction of the violation.
   G.   Parking Violation:
      1.   The fact that an automobile or motor vehicle which is illegally
operated or parked is registered with the secretary of state in the name of
said alleged violator; or in the alternative, in the event that a vehicle
sticker issued by the village has been issued in the name of and to said
alleged violator, shall be proof that said alleged violator was in control of
or was the operator of the automobile or motor vehicle at the time of such
alleged violation.
      2.   The commercial lessor of any vehicle, whether or not the registered
owner, shall be responsible for such parking violation and subject to the
penalty therefor. (Ord. 92-8, 4-13-1992)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definition
7-2-2: State Licenses Required
7-2-3: Village Licenses Required
7-2-4: Application For License; Term
7-2-5: License Fees
7-2-6: License Tags
7-2-7: Sale Or Transfer Of Vehicle
7-2-8: Exemptions
7-2-9: Unlicensed Motorized Devices
7-2-1: DEFINITION:
The term "motor vehicle", when used in this chapter, shall mean every self-
propelled device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or in the village, except devices moved by
human power. (1985 Code § 6-2-1)
7-2-2: STATE LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Vehicle License: It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be
driven in or upon or used in or upon any street, parkway, sidewalk, public way,
public alley, public property, semipublic property, shopping center, park or
school grounds without having a license issued to said vehicle by the state. It
shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession a motor vehicle for
use which cannot be licensed by the secretary of state. The possession of such
vehicle by any person is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1985 Code § 6-2-2;
amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Driver's Licenses: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor
vehicle in or upon or use any highway, street, parkway, sidewalk, public way,
public alley, public property, semipublic property, park, public or parochial
school grounds, shopping center or drainage basin without having a valid
driver's license issued thereto. (1985 Code § 6-2-2)
7-2-3: VILLAGE LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   No person having his residence in the village shall use, or cause to be
used, any motor vehicle or vehicle in the transportation of persons or property
or the conveyance of loads in the village without first having obtained a
license as provided herein.
   B.   No firm or corporation having its residence in the village or having
its principal office or place of business in the village shall use, or cause or
permit any of its agents or employees to use, any motor vehicle or vehicle in
the transportation of persons or property or conveyance of loads in the village
without first having obtained a vehicle license as provided herein.
   C.   No person, firm or corporation owning a vehicle, which vehicle is
housed, located or has its situs or base in the village, shall use, or cause or
permit any of his or its agents or employees to use, any such motor vehicle or
vehicle in the transportation of persons or property or the conveyance of loads
in the village without first having obtained a vehicle license as provided
herein.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any motor vehicle or vehicle
in the village unless such motor vehicle or vehicle is licensed as provided
herein. (1985 Code § 6-2-3)
7-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; TERM:
   A.   Any person desiring a license for any vehicle shall file an application
therefor with the village clerk upon a form provided thereby, setting forth the
name and address of the applicant, the description of the vehicle and such
information as may be prescribed. Upon demand by the village clerk, the
applicant shall display the state identification card for each vehicle at the
time of application. Such license shall issue upon the payment by the applicant
of a license fee as determined by the village board of trustees to the village
clerk, and shall authorize the use of such vehicle within the village under the
expiration of such license. (1985 Code § 6-2-4; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be for a
year and shall begin June 1 and expire May 31 following their issuance. (1985
Code § 6-2-4; amd. Ord. 05-17, 6-13-2005; 2016 Code)
7-2-5: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The license fee for each motor vehicle or vehicle to be paid annually
to the village clerk shall be as determined by the village board of trustees.
   B.   If such vehicle has been purchased or lawfully acquired by the
applicant on or after December 1 of any current year, the fee to be paid shall
be a sum equal to one-half (1/2) of the annual license fee, as a license fee
for the balance of such year. Before any applicant shall be entitled to a
prorated license as provided in this subsection, the said applicant shall
furnish an affidavit, in form satisfactory to the village clerk, stating that
the vehicle for which the license is applied was purchased or otherwise
obtained by the applicant on or after December 1 of the current year, and shall
exhibit to the village clerk the bill of sale covering the vehicle for which
license is sought.
   C.   Any vehicle required to have a license by section
 7-2-3 of this chapter on September 30, which does not have said license
affixed thereto by twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on said date of the license
year, or does not have a vehicle license affixed thereto in the time provided
by this chapter, shall pay double the amount as determined by the village board
of trustees for the current required vehicle license. (1985 Code § 6-2-5; amd.
2016 Code)
7-2-6: LICENSE TAGS:
   A.   Upon the issuance of said license, the village clerk shall deliver to
the applicant a gummed tag, decal or sticker upon which shall appear the word
"HODGKINS" and a number identical with the number of such license and the year
for which such license is issued, and it shall be the duty of the applicant to
affix such gummed tag, decal or sticker upon the windshield of the motor
vehicle, or if there is no windshield, then in a conspicuous place upon said
motor vehicle where it can be readily seen. It shall be unlawful for any motor
vehicle, although duly licensed, to be used in the village unless such tag or
sticker is attached thereto.
   B.   No resident owner shall be required to display on his vehicle the plate
or tax or license number issued by a city, village or incorporated town of his
residence if the vehicle is displaying the plate or tax or license number
issued by the place wherein the vehicle has its situs or base. (1985 Code § 6-
2-6)
7-2-7: SALE OR TRANSFER OF VEHICLE:
Immediately upon the sale or transfer of any motor vehicle which has been
therefor licensed as provided herein, prior to its date of such sale or
transfer, the vendor or transferer shall remove the license tag, decal or
sticker from the vehicle so sold or transferred, and the license so issued for
such vehicle shall cease to apply to said vehicle from such date. Upon a
showing to the village clerk that said tag, decal or sticker has been so
removed from such sold or transferred vehicle, the village clerk may issue a
new tag bearing a new number, which shall apply to and be assigned to any other
vehicle of the same class owned by said vendor or transferer. Except as herein
provided, no tag, decal or sticker issued for or assigned to any vehicle shall
ever be used for, or attached to, or upon another and different vehicle. (1985
Code § 6-2-7; amd. 2016 Code)
7-2-8: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Any resident who shall be declared by said person's physician to be a
person with disabilities for at least one year shall be exempt from the payment
of a license fee required in section
 7-2-5 of this chapter. The village clerk or comptroller shall require proof of
said disability in the form of a letter signed by the physician attending said
person with disabilities.
   B.   No village resident shall pay a license fee for a noncommercial
vehicle. (1985 Code § 6-2-8; amd. 2016 Code)
7-2-9: UNLICENSED MOTORIZED DEVICES:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall be
defined as provided in this subsection:
   PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any public street, public sidewalk, public alley, public
park or any other property owned or controlled by the village of Hodgkins, the
Hodgkins park district, a public or private high school or grammar school or
any other property owned or controlled by a unit of local government located
within the village of Hodgkins.
   UNLICENSED MOTORIZED DEVICE: Any motorized device or vehicle not bearing the
proper registration plates from the Illinois secretary of state or incapable of
being registered by the Illinois secretary of state under the provisions of the
Illinois vehicle code, and shall include, but is not limited to, motor
scooters, go-carts, golf carts, mopeds, minibikes or motorbikes.
   B.   Prohibited On Public Property; Exemptions: It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate an unlicensed motorized device on any public property. This
section shall not apply to automobiles, "motorized wheelchairs" (as defined by
the Illinois vehicle code) and any motorized device or vehicle incapable of
reaching a speed in excess of three (3) miles per hour.
   C.   Impoundment Procedure; Prima Facie Proof: Whenever a police officer has
probable cause to believe that a violation of this section has occurred, he is
hereby authorized to seize and impound the unlicensed motorized device. The
failure to display the proper registration from the Illinois secretary of state
is prima facie proof that the instrumentality constitutes an unlicensed
motorized device.
   D.   Hearings:
      1.   Preliminary Hearing: The owner of an unlicensed motorized device (or
any interested party) which has been impounded pursuant to this section shall
have the right to a preliminary hearing to determine whether the seizure and
impoundment was erroneous. The preliminary hearing shall be requested in
writing to the chief of police, or his designee, within forty eight (48) hours
of seizure. The hearing shall be conducted within forty eight (48) hours of
receipt of a written demand for the hearing by the chief of police or his
designee. Failure to request or attend a scheduled hearing within forty eight
(48) hours of the seizure shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a
preliminary hearing. If the hearing officer determines, by a preponderance of
the evidence, that the provisions of this section have been violated, he shall
order that the unlicensed motorized device remain impounded until a bond in the
amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) is posted with the village police
department. If the hearing officer determines that the provisions of this
section were not violated, the item seized shall be returned to the owner.
      2.   Final Hearing: A hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the
provisions of this section. The hearing shall be held within forty five (45)
days of the seizure. The hearing officer shall be authorized to release the
seized unlicensed motorized device upon payment of a fine and an additional
storage charge in the amount of five dollars ($5.00) per day. If a bond has
been posted, it shall be applied toward the fine and storage charges. If the
hearing officer determines that the provisions of this section have not been
violated, the seized item shall be returned to its owner and any posted bond
refunded. Any unlicensed motorized device which remains unclaimed for a period
in excess of one year shall be presumed abandoned and may be destroyed. (Ord.
02-08, 10-22-2002)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Applicability Of Provisions
7-3-2: Obedience To Police
7-3-3: Signs Posted
7-3-4: Restrictions On Driving
7-3-5: Obstructing Crossings
7-3-6: Vehicle Weight Limitations
7-3-7: Oversize And Overweight Vehicles
7-3-8: Vehicle Operation Restrictions
7-3-9: Skitching
7-3-10: Soliciting Rides Or Business (Repl. by Ord. 21-09, 10-11-2021)
7-3-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Every person riding or driving any vehicle or riding a bicycle or an animal or
driving any animal drawing a vehicle upon a roadway shall be subject to the
provisions of this title applicable to a driver of a vehicle except those
provisions which by their nature can have no application. (1985 Code § 6-3-1)
7-3-2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE:
Members of the police department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in
accordance with the provisions of this title or, in emergencies, as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the chief of police to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (1985
Code § 6-3-2)
7-3-3: SIGNS POSTED:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to determine and designate the
character of all official signs which purport to direct the movement of
traffic, and he shall post adequate signs, where such signs may be necessary,
for the effective enforcement of this title. All signs shall conform to the
state sign manual. (1985 Code § 6-3-3)
7-3-4: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Driving In Certain Zoned Areas: It shall be unlawful for any motor
vehicle to be driven or for a person to drive the same upon any public or
private property not properly zoned for the use to which said vehicle is being
put or which is not incident to the zoned use, or legally recognized as one of
the uses permitted on said property.
   B.   Driving In Certain Places: It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to be
driven upon any public property, semipublic property, park or school property,
except in those parts of said property improved as driveways and recognized
portions of the premises devoted for ingress and egress for motor vehicles or
used for parking incident to the principal uses permitted on said property.
   C.   Driving On Sidewalks, Lawns, Etc.: No person shall drive any vehicle on
or across any sidewalk, boulevard, lawn, parkway or property where there is no
regular approach or driveway for the use of vehicular traffic.
   D.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle
within the village emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop such
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the sidewalk area
extending across an alley or private driveway. (1985 Code § 6-3-4)
7-3-5: OBSTRUCTING CROSSINGS:
No person shall stop any car or other vehicle for pleasure or burden on any of
the crossings of the streets or alleys of the village so as to inconvenience
persons crossing the same, or shall in any manner obstruct any crossings except
so far as may be necessary in passing over or across the same. (1985 Code § 6-
3-5; amd. 2016 Code)
7-3-6: VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Weight Limitations On Certain Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to stand, park, drive or move a vehicle if the
maximum gross weight of the vehicle, including the load, exceeds eight thousand
(8,000) pounds on the following streets:
Chester Street.
Cobb Street.
Conrad Avenue.
Kane Avenue.
Kimball Avenue.
Lenzi Avenue (Center Avenue) from U.S. Route No. 66 (Joliet Road) to a point
495 feet north of the south line of Quarry Road.
Lyons Street.
Power Line Road.
Weeping Willow Road.
Wenz Avenue.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to stand, park, drive or move a vehicle of the
second division, as defined in the Illinois vehicle code, bearing state of
Illinois C to VDB class license plates, on the following streets:
Lenzi Avenue (Center Avenue) from U.S. Route No. 66 (Joliet Road) to a point
495 feet north of the south line of Quarry Road.
      3.   Adequate signs giving notice of the limitations and prohibitions of
this subsection A shall be posted. (1985 Code § 6-3-6; amd. Ord. 98-21, 11-9-
1998)
   B.   Truck Routes: Truck routes are streets which use is limited to state or
county weight and use restrictions. The following streets are designated as
truck routes:
East Avenue.
Joliet Road.
LaGrange Road.
67th Street.
The director of the department of public works shall place on the street name
signs of the streets designated as a truck route, the words "Truck Route".
   C.   No Left Turn Permitted: There shall be no left turns permitted off of
Power Line Road onto 67th Street. (1985 Code § 6-3-6)
7-3-7: OVERSIZE AND OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES:
   A.   Permit Required; Size And Weight Limits; Routes Designated:
      1.   Permit Required; Size And Weight Limits:
         a.   A permit shall be required for the movement of any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which exceeds the following limits:
            (1)   Weight: More than seventy three thousand two hundred eighty
(73,280) pounds; except, that vehicles weighing up to eighty thousand (80,000)
pounds are permitted access to locations within one mile of both I-55 and I-294
within the village limits and upon roadways maintained by the state of
Illinois, which are LaGrange Road (Route 45) and Joliet Road (Route 66), in
accordance with exceptions granted by state law.
            (2)   Length: More than sixty feet (60').
            (3)   Width: More than eight feet six inches (8'6").
            (4)   Height: More than thirteen feet six inches (13'6").
         b.   Maximum practical weights for which permits will be issued are as
follows:
            (1)   Six (6) axle tractor semitrailer combination: One hundred
twenty thousand (120,000) pounds' gross; forty eight thousand (48,000) pounds
on drive tandems; sixty thousand (60,000) pounds on semitrailer three (3) axle
tandem;
            (2)   Five (5) axle tractor semitrailer combination: One hundred
thousand (100,000) pounds' gross; maximum of forty eight thousand (48,000)
pounds on either tandem;
            (3)   Four (4) or more axle vehicle (axle spacing 23 feet or more):
Seventy six thousand (76,000) pounds' gross; maximum of thirty four thousand
(34,000) pounds on one tandem and forty four thousand (44,000) pounds on the
other;
            (4)   Three (3) or more axle vehicle (axle spacing 18 feet or
more): Maximum sixty eight thousand (68,000) pounds' gross; twenty thousand
(20,000) pounds on one axle and forty eight thousand (48,000) pounds on the
tandem;
            (5)   Two (2) axle vehicle: Maximum forty eight thousand (48,000)
pounds; neither axle exceeds twenty five thousand (25,000) pounds.
Practical maximum weights will be adhered to; except, that overweight moves
exceeding the practical maximum weights or on nonstandard vehicles or with
nonstandard axle configuration may be authorized if allowable pavement and
bridge stresses are not exceeded. These moves normally require additional time
for analysis.
      2.   Routes Designated:
         a.   The following roads are designated permit routes:
River Road.
Santa Fe Drive south of 67th Street and east of I-294.
         b.   The following roads are designated local roads with weight limits
of up to eighty thousand (80,000) pounds' gross, twenty thousand (20,000)
pounds on a single axle, and thirty four thousand (34,000) pounds on a tandem
axle. The bridge formula found in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-111(a)
shall apply:
Catherine Ann Drive east of East Avenue.
Lenzi Avenue south of Joliet Road.
         c.   Any person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship or
organization moving an oversized load upon 67th Street between LaGrange Road
(Route 45) and East Avenue with a permit issued by the Illinois department of
transportation shall also obtain a village permit via telephone (708-352-4623)
or by sending a facsimile (708-579-6712) of the permit, for a fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). The permit must be in writing and carried in the
vehicle to which it refers.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a permit to move on village
streets and bridges an overweight and/or overdimension vehicle, or combination
of vehicles, with a load which has been reasonably disassembled must be made to
the village chief of police, and the following information shall be included:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of the applicant and the applicant's
business name, address and telephone number;
      2.   Whether the permit is requested for a single trip or for limited
continuous operation;
      3.   Whether the applicant is an authorized carrier under the Illinois
motor carrier of property law, and if so, the registration, certificate or
permit number issued by the Illinois commerce commission;
      4.   The Illinois department of transportation's registration number or
classification, and a specific description of the vehicle or vehicles and the
load;
      5.   The routing, including point of origin and destination; and
      6.   Whether the vehicle or loads are being transported for hire.
   C.   Permit Fees:
      1.   Fees for permits shall be assessed as follows:
      STATE PERMITTED OVERWEIGHT VEHICLES
 
Class Of Vehicle Weight                    Permit Fee
Class 1A         73,281 to 100,000 pounds  $ 25.00
Class 2A         100,001 to 120,000 pounds 50.00
Class 3A         120,001 to 140,000 pounds 75.00
Class 4A         140,001 pounds and over   100.00
 
(Ord. 98-21, 11-9-1998)
      OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES
Class And Dimensions Of Vehicle Permit Fee
Class And Dimensions Of Vehicle  Permit Fee
Class 1B:                        $ 25.00
 Width: Up to 12'                
 Length: Up to 110'              
 Height: Up to 14'6"             
Class 2B:                        50.00
 Width: More than 12' to 15'     
 Length: More than 110' to 145'  
 Height: More than 14'6" to 18'  
Class 3B:                        100.00
 Width: More than 15'            
 Length: More than 145'          
 Height: More than 18'           
 
(Ord. 98-21, 11-9-1998; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   If vehicles are both overweight and overdimension, applicable fees
for both must be paid to obtain a permit.
   D.   Bond And Deposit Requirements:
      1.   Bond: Any person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship or
organization may seek permits to move overweight/overdimension vehicles on
village streets if there is on deposit with the village a cash bond in the
amount of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) in a certified or
cashier's check made in favor of the village, or in lieu of a cash bond, a
license/permit bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to cover
any damages to village streets or property. If a portion of the bond must be
used to pay for such damage, no further applications for permits under this
section will be considered until the full amount is replenished. Bond will be
returned within ten (10) days upon request if no permits are outstanding, but
no further permit shall be issued without redeposit of such bond.
      2.   Deposit: Any person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship
or organization may deposit with the village any amount which it considers
sufficient upon which a draw may be made for permit fees. Applicants
maintaining sufficient funds in such a deposit account and who have provided
the cash bond or license/permit bond required in subsection C2 of this section
may be issued permits by telephone by the village chief of police or his
designee, and the fee for such permit shall be withdrawn from the deposit
account. In no instance shall telephone permits be issued if an amount
insufficient to cover the cost of the required permit remains in the account.
   E.   Conditions Of Permit:
      1.   Permits for single trip movements shall be issued as follows:
         a.   Permits for single trip movements are issued for one-way
movement. These permits are valid for five (5) days from the date of issuance;
         b.   Unless stated otherwise on the permit, permit movements may be
made only from one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise to one-half (1/2) hour after
sunset on weekdays and from one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise to twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on Saturday, central time.
      2.   Permits for round trips shall be issued as follows:
         a.   The same object is to be moved in both directions.
         b.   The same route is to be traveled in the reverse direction.
         c.   Round trip permits over a circular or roundabout route will not
routinely be issued. A single trip permit will not be revised to include "round
trip" after a move has been undertaken. Round trip permits are subject to the
restrictions contained in subsection A1b of this section; except, that such
permits are valid for a period of ten (10) working days and one round trip move
from the date of issuance.
   F.   Escort Required: Civilian and/or police escort of overweight and/or
overdimension vehicles as described in subsection C1 of this section shall be
required as follows:
      1.   Class 3A vehicles may require a civilian escort vehicle. The driver
of a civilian escort vehicle must be in radio contact with the driver of a
permit vehicle.
      2.   Class 4A vehicles may require a civilian escort and may require a
village police department escort. The driver of the civilian escort vehicle
must be in radio contact with the driver of the permit vehicle.
      3.   Class 2B vehicles require one civilian escort vehicle. The driver of
the civilian escort vehicle must be in radio contact with the driver of the
permit vehicle.
      4.   Class 3B vehicles require one civilian escort vehicle. The driver of
the civilian escort vehicle must be in radio contact with the driver of the
permit vehicle. A village police department vehicle escort may also be
required.
   G.   Liability For Damage: Any person driving any vehicle, object or
contrivance upon any street or bridge is liable for all damage which the
street, bridge or village owned appurtenance thereto may sustain as a result of
any illegal operation, driving or moving of such vehicle, object or contrivance
authorized by a special permit issued as provided in this section. The measure
of liability is the cost of repairing a facility partially damaged or the
replacement cost of a facility damaged beyond repair, together with all other
expenses incurred by the village in providing a temporary detour, including a
temporary street or bridge, to serve the needs of traffic during the period of
repair or replacement of the street or bridge. Whenever such driver is not the
owner of such vehicle, object or contrivance, but is so operating, driving or
moving the same with the express or implied permission of such owner, then the
owner is liable to the extent provided in this section. Recovery may be had in
a civil action brought by the village.
   H.   Application Of Provisions; Exemptions:
      1.   This section applies only to permits for the movement of overweight
and/or overdimension vehicles on village streets. Appropriate permits must be
obtained for movement of these vehicles on county or state highways which are
located within the village.
      2.   This section shall not apply to emergency vehicles including, but
not limited to, firetrucks, ambulances and utility servicing trucks.
   I.   Penalty: All overweight violations shall be fined in accordance with
the schedule set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-113 and all
applicable circuit court fees. (Ord. 98-21, 11-9-1998)
7-3-8: VEHICLE OPERATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Squealing Tires: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in such a
manner so as to cause or produce unnecessary or loud or unusual noises by tire
friction upon rapid turning or weaving or by spinning of the wheels from a
standing or slow moving position produced by sudden unnecessary motor
acceleration.
   B.   Negligent Driving: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
vehicle upon a public way or street negligently, heedlessly and without due
caution or in a manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property. (1985 Code § 6-3-7)
   C.   Engine Braking:
      1.   Nuisance Declared: Causing unnecessary noise upon the public way by
the use of any engine braking system is hereby declared to be a nuisance
subject to abatement as such.
      2.   Prohibited Generally; Exceptions: No person shall operate any engine
braking system ("jake brakes") on streets designated by ordinance and properly
signposted, except in the case of emergency.
      3.   Prohibited Streets: The operation of any engine braking system
("jake braking") is prohibited, except in the case of emergency, on the
following streets within the village jurisdiction:
Southbound I-55 ramp to northbound Route 45 (LaGrange Road).
Route 45 (LaGrange Road) between 75th Street and Joliet Road.
      4.   Signs Posted: The village public works department is hereby directed
to post signs in conformance with this subsection C and all applicable state
and federal regulations. (Ord. 04-10, 8-9-2004)
      5.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
subsection C shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 04-10, 8-9-2004;
amd. 2016 Code)
7-3-9: SKITCHING:
It shall be unlawful for any person on the streets, public property or parking
lots of the village to hitch a ride upon any other motor vehicle or snowmobile
by flipping or holding thereon, or attaching any ski, sled, bicycle,
skateboard, board, vehicle or motor vehicle to another motor vehicle or
snowmobile while the same is in motion, either by hand, rope or other means
(commonly called "skitching"). It shall be unlawful for any person driving a
motor vehicle or snowmobile to permit any of the unlawful acts mentioned in
this section. The prohibition against skitching shall not be construed to
include the tow of disabled vehicles. (1985 Code § 6-3-8)
7-3-10: SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS:
(Repl. by Ord. 21-09, 10-11-2021)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: State Speed Laws Applicable
7-4-2: General Speed Restrictions
7-4-3: Minimum Speed Regulation
7-4-4: Speed Limits On Specific Streets And Areas
7-4-5: Emergency Vehicles Exempt
7-4-1: STATE SPEED LAWS APPLICABLE:
The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be applicable
upon all streets within the village except as this chapter, as authorized by
state law, hereby declares and determines upon the basis of engineering and
traffic investigation that certain speed regulations shall be applicable upon
specified streets or in certain areas, in which event, it shall be prima facie
unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so
declared in this chapter when signs are in place giving notice thereof. (1985
Code § 6-4-1)
7-4-2: GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall drive a vehicle upon any public highway in the village
at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic
and the use of the way or so to endanger life or limb or injure the property of
any person. If the rate of speed of any motor vehicle operated upon any public
street or highway in the village where the same passes through a business
district, a residence district or a suburban district exceeds twenty (20) miles
an hour; or the rate of speed of any vehicle exceeds fifteen (15) miles per
hour in a public alley; or if the rate of speed of any vehicle exceeds the
posted speed limit on highways under the jurisdiction of Cook County or the
state, unless such speed is decreased by subsection
7-4-4A of this chapter, or exceeds the rate prescribed on the roads in section
 7-4-1 of this chapter, such rates of speed shall be prima facie evidence that
the person operating such motor vehicle is running at a rate of speed greater
than is reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic and use of the way
or so as to endanger the life or limb or injure the property of any person. The
speed of all vehicles shall always be reasonable and safe and be governed by
the general requirements of this section.
   B.   The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the prima facie
limits set out in subsection A of this section shall not relieve the driver
from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazard exists
with respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person or vehicle, or on entering the highway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care. (1985 Code § 6-4-2)
7-4-3: MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION:
No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to impede or
block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when reduced speed
is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance with law. (1985
Code § 6-4-3)
7-4-4: SPEED LIMITS ON SPECIFIC STREETS AND AREAS:
   A.   Areas Outside Business And Residence Districts: It is hereby
determined, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that
the speed permitted by state and county law outside of business and residence
districts as applicable upon the following streets is greater than is
reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist upon such streets, and
it is hereby declared that the prima facie speed limit shall be thirty five
(35) miles per hour as herein set forth on those streets or parts of streets
herein designated at the times herein specified when signs are erected giving
notice thereof:
East Avenue north of 67th Street, at all times.
   B.   School Zones: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in
excess of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while
traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going
to and from school during school days when schoolchildren are present. This
subsection shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are posted upon
streets and highways. Such signs shall give proper due warning that a school
zone is being approached and shall indicate the school zone and the maximum
speed limit in effect during school days when schoolchildren are present. (1985
Code § 6-4-4)
7-4-5: EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXEMPT:
The prima facie speed limitations set forth in this chapter shall not apply to
authorized emergency vehicles when responding to emergency calls and the
drivers thereof sound audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle. This
section shall not relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from
the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the
street, nor shall it protect the driver of any such vehicle from the
consequences of a reckless disregard of the safety of others. (1985 Code § 6-4-
5)
CHAPTER 5
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING
SECTION:
7-5-1: Authority To Regulate Parking
7-5-2: Stopping, Standing And Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
7-5-3: Parking Prohibited On Certain Streets
7-5-4: Snow Routes
7-5-5: Stopping And Parking Prohibitions And Restrictions
7-5-6: Stopping Or Parking Close To Curb
7-5-7: Lights On Parked Vehicles
7-5-8: Removal Of Improperly Parked Vehicles
7-5-9: Liability Of Registered Owner
7-5-1: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE PARKING:
   A.   The village shall have authority to prohibit parking or to prescribe
time limits for parking on any street under the control and jurisdiction of the
state or village or for the maintenance of which the state, county or village
is responsible, in such manner as to promote public convenience and safety and
so as to facilitate traffic. Any such regulations adopted by the state, county
or village regarding parking upon any specific street or streets shall become
effective on and after the date of the erecting of appropriate signs indicating
such regulations. Any such signs may be erected either by the state or the
county or by the village through its chief of police. All such signs now
erected and in place are hereby determined to be parking signs which must be
obeyed.
   B.   This section shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway or
street in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position. (1985
Code § 6-5-1)
7-5-2: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On a sidewalk.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         h.   On any railroad tracks. A violation of this subsection shall
result in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fifty (50)
hours of community service.
         i.   On any controlled access highway.
         j.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
         k.   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
         l.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing;
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (2016
Code)
7-5-3: PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for an operator of any vehicle, including a motor vehicle,
motorcycle, trailer, semitrailer, truck-tractor, farm tractor, road tractor, or
road or construction equipment, to park for a longer time than indicated on the
roadway of a street where signs have been posted limiting the time or
prohibiting parking.
   A.   No Parking At Any Time: It shall be unlawful for an operator of any
vehicle, including a motor vehicle, motorcycle, moped, trailer, semitrailer,
truck-tractor, farm tractor, road tractor, or road or construction equipment,
to park or stand at any time on the roadway of the following streets: (1985
Code § 6-5-3)
   Catherine Ann Drive.
East Avenue, from the south roadway line of U.S. 66 (Joliet Road) to the south
line of 67th Street.
River Road, from the south side of 67th Street to its eastern terminus. Said
road shall be designated a tow away zone and subject to immediate tow.
Santa Fe Drive, from the south line of 67th Street to its western terminus.
Such drive shall be designated a tow away zone and subject to immediate tow.
U.S. Route 45 (LaGrange Road).
67th Street, from the east roadway line of U.S. 45 (LaGrange Road) to the east
street line of East Avenue.
(1985 Code § 6-5-3; amd. Ord. 91-45, 11-11-1991; Ord. 06-22, 12-11-2006)
   B.   No Parking In Certain Areas Of Certain Streets: It shall be unlawful to
park any vehicle on LaGrange Road, East Avenue, Joliet Road and 67th Street in
the following places: (Ord. 06-18, 10-9-2006)
      1.   Upon any part of the paved roadway.
      2.   Upon any part of the parkway. (1985 Code § 6-5-3)
7-5-4: SNOW ROUTES:
   A.   Parking Prohibited After Snowfall: It shall be unlawful to stand, stop
or park or cause to be parked a motor vehicle in any area or zone designated a
"snow route" after two inches (2") of snowfall or more until said snow is
completely removed. A vehicle parked in violation of this subsection is hereby
declared a nuisance and may be summarily abated, without notice, by towing upon
order of the police or the department of public works.
   B.   Applicability Of Provisions:
      1.   All streets or parts of streets marked "No Parking At Any Time" or
words of similar import are hereby designated as streets or parts of streets
subject to the provisions of subsection A of this section.
      2.   Any vehicle that is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
law and is interfering with or about to interfere with snow removal operations
is made subject to the provisions of subsection A of this section.
   C.   Signs Posted: Street areas or zones designated as "snow routes" shall
be posted with signs stating that it is a "Snow Route - No Parking After Two
Inches (2") Of Snowfall Or More Until Removal Is Complete - And Vehicle Will Be
Towed".
   D.   Snow Routes Designated: The following streets are hereby designated as
snow routes throughout their entire length in the village:
East Avenue.
Joliet Road.
LaGrange Road.
67th Street.
   E.   Parking after two inches (2") of snow:
      1.   The following procedures shall be followed from November 1 through
April when snowfall of two inches (2") or more shall occur:
         a.   On odd numbered days there shall be parking only sides of streets
with odd numbers. For example, if more than two inches (2") of snowfall occurs
on January 1, all vehicles must be parked on sides of streets with odd numbers
or in the owner's driveway.
         b.   On even numbered days there shall be parking only on sides of
streets with even numbers. For example, if more than two inches (2") of
snowfall occurs on January 2, all vehicles must be parked on sides of streets
with even numbers or in the owner's driveway.
      2.   Residents parking on Cobb Street and Lyons Street: On even numbered
days there shall be parking only on the south side of the street. On odd
numbered days there shall be parking only on the north side of the street.
(1985 Code § 6-5-4; amd. Ord. 22-01, 2-14-2022)
7-5-5: STOPPING AND PARKING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   All Night Parking:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park any of the following vehicles on any
street, alley, parkway or public driveway between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the following day:
         a.   Any second division vehicle as defined in state law with a gross
weight of eight thousand one (8,001) pounds or more;
         b.   Any bus;
         c.   Any tow truck;
         d.   Any trailer, including houseboats and camping trailers which are
not self-propelled;
         e.   Any passenger vehicle with a seating capacity of more than ten
(10) persons;
         f.   More than one commercial vehicle with a state class A or B plate,
per residence.
      2.   Such vehicles may park during said period for such time that is
necessary for the reasonable expeditious loading and unloading of the same when
making pick ups and deliveries.
   B.   Vehicle Loading And Unloading: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle, except a private passenger vehicle with a seating capacity of not more
than ten (10) persons, on any street for a longer period than is necessary for
the reasonable expeditious loading and unloading of such vehicle making pick
ups and deliveries.
   C.   Vehicle For Sale: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any
street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon
which merchandise is being offered to the public for sale.
   D.   Motor Running: No motor vehicle shall be left unattended while the
motor of said vehicle is running, or while standing upon a perceptible grade
without effectively setting the brake and turning the wheels of such vehicle
toward the curb or the side of the street or highway.
   E.   Street Cleaning: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any side
of the roadway of a street during the days and hours said roadway is being
swept or cleaned by the village. Official signs shall be posted by the public
works director at least four (4) hours before work is to begin and during the
hours and days said parking is prohibited. Such signs may be temporary in
nature but shall sufficiently inform the public of the prohibited time of
parking. The public works director is hereby authorized to remove, at the
expense of the owner, any vehicle parked in violation of this subsection.
   F.   Commercial District: It shall be lawful to park upon the roadway and
the parkway of any side street in a commercial district as defined in the
zoning title, provided the following requirements are met:
      1.   All areas to be blacktopped and kept in good repair.
      2.   Sidewalks shall be installed and kept clear for pedestrian traffic.
Allowance shall be made for location of sidewalks, with the approval of the
building and public works departments, to ensure adequate space for vehicles
without blocking sidewalks.
      3.   Wheel bumpers shall be required when necessary in the judgment of
the building department or the public works department.
      4.   Parking spaces shall be striped to ensure pedestrian right of way.
      5.   Parking spaces provided by this subsection shall not be counted or
included in the off street parking requirements provided in the zoning title.
(1985 Code § 6-5-5)
   G.   Resident Parking Only: As of the effective date hereof, there shall be
resident parking only on the west side of Lenzi Avenue at 6032 Lenzi. The
village clerk shall issue a sticker for each resident vehicle at those
addresses at no charge to the resident. (Ord. 91-45, 11-11-1991; amd. 2016
Code)
7-5-6: STOPPING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB:
   A.   Every vehicle stopped or parked on streets of the village forming a
part of the state or county highway or village street system, where there is an
adjacent curb, shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb.
   B.   Except where angle parking is permitted by ordinance on streets other
than streets forming a part of the state or county highway or village street
system, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such
vehicle parallel with and within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb.
(1985 Code § 6-5-6)
7-5-7: LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   During the period from sunset to sunrise, every motorcycle or motor
vehicle occupied by a person which is standing on any street, highway, public
way, public park or public property shall display a parking light on the front
and at the rear of the same. Any lighted driving lamps within a parked vehicle
shall be depressed or dimmed.
   B.   Whenever an unoccupied vehicle is parked or stopped on a street during
the times between sunset or sunrise, or at any other time when there is not
sufficient light to render clearly discernible any vehicle on the street from a
distance of two hundred feet (200'), there shall be displayed upon said vehicle
one or more lights on the front of said vehicle and one or more red lights on
the rear of said vehicle, which shall be visible under normal atmospheric
conditions from a distance of two hundred feet (200'). (1985 Code § 6-5-7)
7-5-8: REMOVAL OF IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Any vehicle parked in violation of traffic regulations or parked so as
to obstruct the free movement of traffic or to cause a traffic hazard may be
immediately removed upon order of the police department to the village hall
parking lot, or to a public lot, garage or private lot so designated by the
village to serve as a storage for such removed vehicles. Any such vehicle
removed by the police department shall be kept under the control of the police
department until the owner or authorized agent pays a reasonable cost of
removal and storage in addition to the penalty provided for such improper
parking. Any such vehicle shall be deemed to be improperly parked in a
prohibited area or time after a period of three (3) minutes. If said vehicle is
redeemed, the cost of redemption shall include the actual cost and expense of
said removal in addition to a reasonable storage charge, and said costs and
expenses shall be a lien in favor of the village. Any lot zoned R or R-2 shall
not be permitted to store vehicles pursuant to this section.
   B.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such officer is authorized
to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved or main
traveled part of such street.
   C.   No person other than a police officer shall move a vehicle into any
prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful or start or
cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change or move
the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other mechanism of a standing
motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the owner
or driver thereof, or attempt so to do. (1985 Code § 6-5-8)
7-5-9: LIABILITY OF REGISTERED OWNER:
   A.   Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any
provisions of this chapter prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in
whose name such vehicle is registered shall be prima facie responsible for such
violation and subject to penalty therefor.
   B.   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of this
chapter prohibiting or restricting parking, and there is no person in
attendance upon such parked vehicle to be arrested or served immediately with a
notice to appear in court to answer the charge of such violation, any police
officer observing such violation may attach to the vehicle used in such
violation, a citation or ticket, so that the person in whose name such vehicle
is registered may answer the citation or appear in court on a day certain to be
named on such ticket, and answer to the charges of such violation. It shall be
unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the vehicle to which said
ticket or notification is attached, to remove same from said vehicle.
   C.   Every person in whose name a vehicle is registered pursuant to law and
who leases such vehicle to others, after receiving written notice of a
violation of this chapter or the statutes involving such vehicle, shall, upon
request, provide such police officers as have authority of the offense, and the
court having jurisdiction thereof, with a written statement of the name and
address of the lessee at the time of such offense and the identifying number
upon the registration plates of such vehicle. (1985 Code § 6-5-9)
CHAPTER 6
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY AND STOP INTERSECTIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Yield Right Of Way Intersections
7-6-2: Stop Intersections
7-6-3: Obedience To Stop And Yield Signs
7-6-1: YIELD RIGHT OF WAY INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Signs Posted: Pursuant to state law, the public works director is
hereby ordered to erect yield signs upon direction of the village board of
trustees. Every sign shall be erected according to standards set forth in the
Illinois sign manual adopted by the state department of transportation. (1985
Code § 6-6-1; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Duty Of Driver When Approaching A Yield Sign: The driver of a vehicle
approaching a yield sign shall:
      1.   If required for safety to stop, stop before entering the crosswalk
on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at
a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway. At marked crosswalks not at an intersection, the driver
shall stop at the near side of the crosswalk and yield the right of way to all
pedestrians thereon before proceeding across it.
      2.   In obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the
existing conditions and shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection. (1985 Code § 6-6-1)
7-6-2: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Duty Of Driver When Approaching A Stop Sign: Except when directed to
proceed by a police officer or traffic control signal, every driver of a
vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by a stop sign shall:
      1.   Stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
      2.   Stop as required by subsection A1 of this section and, after having
stopped, shall yield the right of way to any vehicle which has entered the
intersection from another highway or street or which is approaching so closely
on said highway or street as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
when such driver is moving across or within the intersection. (1985 Code § 6-6-
2)
   B.   Stop Intersections Designated:
Traffic Moving On Stop Street
Traffic Moving On   Stop Street
Catherine Ann Drive East Avenue
                    Cobb Street
Chester Avenue      Lyons Street
                    67th Street
                    Chester Avenue
                    Conrad Avenue
Cobb Street         East Avenue
                    Kane Avenue
                    Kimball Avenue
                    Wenz Avenue
                    Cobb Street
Conrad Avenue       Lyons Street
                    67th Street
East Avenue         67th Street
                    Cobb Street
Kane Avenue         Lyons Street
                    67th Street
Kimball Avenue      Cobb Street
                    Lyons Street
Lenzi Avenue        Joliet Road
Leon Cook Drive     Former River Road
                    Santa Fe Drive
                    Chester Avenue
                    Conrad Avenue
Lyons Street        East Avenue
                    Kane Avenue
                    Kimball Avenue
                    Wenz Avenue
River Road          67th Street
                    Leon Cook Drive
Santa Fe Drive      67th Street
                    75th Street
Weeping Willow Road LaGrange Road
                    Cobb Street
Wenz Avenue         Lyons Street
                    67th Street
63rd Street         East Avenue
                    East Avenue
67th Street         Kane Avenue
                    River Road
75th Street         Santa Fe Drive
 
(Ord. 90-8, 7-9-1990; amd. Ord. 05-31, 12-12-2005; Ord. 08-09, 7-14-2008)
7-6-3: OBEDIENCE TO STOP AND YIELD SIGNS:
All stop signs or yield signs erected at the effective date hereof are hereby
determined to be stop or yield signs to which vehicles shall stop or yield and
obey. (1985 Code § 6-6-3)
CHAPTER 7
TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Impoundment Of Vehicles
7-7-2: Liability Of Vehicle Owner And Driver
7-7-3: Violations By Minors
7-7-4: Joint Enforcement Of Traffic Control On Joliet Road
7-7-5: Citations
7-7-6: Penalty
7-7-1: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
Every vehicle which shall have been used in violation of any of the provisions
of this title is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be summarily abated
by any police officer by removing and conveying, or causing the removal and
conveyance of, such vehicle to the vehicle pound or pounds designated by the
village president. For this purpose, any area adjacent to a police station may
be declared to be a vehicle pound. Before the owner or person entitled to
possession of any legally impounded vehicle shall be permitted to remove the
same, he shall furnish evidence of ownership or right to possession and shall
pay for the cost of towing or removal to the vehicle pound and the cost of
storage for each day or fraction thereof in said pound. (1985 Code § 6-7-1)
7-7-2: LIABILITY OF VEHICLE OWNER AND DRIVER:
Whenever a driver of a motor vehicle is not the owner of such vehicle, but is
operating, driving or moving the same with the express or implied permission of
the owner, the owner and driver are jointly and severally liable for the
penalties provided in this chapter. Recovery, if not had in the court in which
the citation is issued for the violation, may be had in any civil action. (1985
Code § 6-7-2)
7-7-3: VIOLATIONS BY MINORS:
   A.   Detaining Child: It shall be the duty of all police officers, on
discovering that any person who has violated any of the provisions of this
title is a person under the age of eighteen (18) years, to inquire as to the
name, age and last residence of such person and to promptly notify the parent,
guardian or custodian of said child that the child has been detained for
violation of the provisions of this title and to report to the police station
for the return of said child to his custody. Whenever it is impractical to do
so, the said child may be returned forthwith to his home but in no case shall
the motor vehicle being used by said child be returned to him. It is the duty
of the parent, guardian or custodian of said child to recover said motor
vehicle.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian,
custodian or other person to knowingly permit a child to violate any of the
provisions of this title. It shall be presumed that said parent, guardian,
custodian or any person knowingly permits the same when said child has
committed his second offense for violating the provisions of this title or any
other traffic ordinance or law, whether or not found guilty. (1985 Code § 6-7-
3)
7-7-4: JOINT ENFORCEMENT OF TRAFFIC CONTROL ON JOLIET ROAD:
The village of Hodgkins, Cook County, Illinois, and the city of Countryside,
Cook County, Illinois, shall have joint jurisdiction for the enforcement of all
laws of the state of Illinois, and all of their respective ordinances,
pertaining to the regulation and control of motor vehicles and motor vehicle
traffic on both sides of Joliet Road, between the west line of LaGrange Road
and the east line of East Avenue. (1985 Code § 6-7-4)
7-7-5: CITATIONS:
A police or peace officer may, in lieu of the issuance of a traffic ticket
summons or a complaint in the circuit court, issue alleged violators a P ticket
as described in section
7-1-2 of this title for those violations enumerated in section
7-1-2 of this title. (1985 Code § 6-7-5)
7-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title, when no other penalty
is provided, shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (1985 Code § 6-7-6; amd. 2016 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Superintendent Of Public Works And Water
8-1-2: Combined Water And Sewer Department
8-1-1: SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND WATER:
   A.   Appointment; Functions: The superintendent of public works and water
shall be appointed by the village president, with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees. The superintendent may use the title of director and may be
known as the director or superintendent of public works and water. The
superintendent or director shall have jurisdiction over and shall be
responsible for the management, control and maintenance of the streets, parks
where owned by the village, sidewalks, garbage disposal, water and sewer,
public grounds, public buildings and all other public works and services which
may be operated by the village.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   General Supervision: The superintendent shall have supervision over
all buildings and equipment used in the furnishing of water in the village, and
shall provide that the object and purposes of the water department are carried
out and that the combined waterworks and sewerage system is conducted on an
economical, businesslike basis, and for this purpose, it shall be the duty of
the superintendent and all of the officers, employees and servants of said
department to enforce all the provisions of this title and to observe and obey
and carry out the orders and directions of the president and village board.
Where the streets are required to be opened for repairs or extensions, the
superintendent shall cooperate with the street department for the protection of
the public against accidents during such repairs and extensions. He shall
prepare and keep in his office a complete atlas of the waterworks and sewerage
system, with all valves, hydrants, water service connections, sewer mains,
house connections and other appurtenances distinctly recorded therein.
      2.   Reports: The superintendent shall, upon the first of each and every
month, or more often if required, submit a report in writing to the village
president and board of trustees of gallons of water purchased, gallons of water
sold, number of metered users, all monies collected by him, the account whereon
collected, and of any and all other matters connected with his office.
      3.   Accounting: The superintendent shall keep, or cause to be kept, full
and complete books of accounts showing in detail all monies received by him,
with dates and sources, and all matters pertaining to his office in a clear and
methodical manner. He shall also keep such books as the president and board of
trustees may from time to time direct. All such books, accounts and papers
pertaining to said office shall at all times be open to the inspection of the
president and board of trustees or any member or committee thereof. (1985 Code
§ 7-1-1)
      4.   Deposit Monies: The superintendent shall, within forty eight (48)
hours of receipt by him, deposit to the credit of the village water and sewer
fund in the depository designated by the president and board of trustees, all
monies collected by him from any source whatever, taking such depository's
receipt in triplicate therefor, one of which receipts he shall immediately file
with the village clerk and another with the village comptroller. He is
expressly prohibited from keeping the monies of the village in his hands, or in
the hands of any person or corporation to his use, beyond the time which is
herein prescribed. Any violation of this subsection shall subject the
superintendent to immediate removal from office. Custody and control of all
funds collected shall be with the village comptroller. (1985 Code § 7-1-1; amd.
2016 Code)
      5.   Read Meters; Collect Payments; Issue Permits: The superintendent, or
such officer or employee of the department as he shall direct, shall read water
meters, collect the water rates, issue water permits and perform such other
duties as are or may hereafter be imposed upon him by law or this code.
   C.   Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the superintendent
of the department shall execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with corporate sureties to be approved by the
board of trustees, conditioned as prescribed by law. The cost of such corporate
surety bond shall be paid by the village. (1985 Code § 7-1-1)
8-1-2: COMBINED WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Departments Combined: The waterworks system and the sewerage system in
the village shall be maintained and operated together as a combined waterworks
and sewerage system, and hereinafter in this section, where the term department
or water department is used, it shall be considered to mean the combined water
and sewer department, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The
combined water and sewer department shall be under the direction of the
superintendent of public works and water.
   B.   Jurisdiction: The water department, under the direction of the
superintendent and such other officers and employees as may be from time to
time lawfully appointed, shall have the supervision, management and control,
subject to the president and board of trustees, of the maintenance, enlargement
and operation of the combined waterworks and sewerage system owned and
controlled by the village, the procuring and selling of water, and all matters
and things connected with the operation, maintenance and extension of said
combined waterworks and sewerage system, and preserving the property belonging
thereto.
   C.   Certified Licensed Operator: The president is authorized to employ a
certified licensed operator to conduct and supervise the operation of the water
department. He may seek help from and employ persons employed by other
municipalities on a part time or full time basis.
   D.   Compensation: The superintendent and other officers and employees of
the department shall receive as compensation for their services amounts to be
fixed by the board of trustees from time to time or as provided by the annual
appropriation ordinance. (1985 Code § 7-1-2)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Control And Supervision
8-2-2: Construction Requirements
8-2-3: Repairs And Defects
8-2-4: Use Of Public Ways
8-2-5: Dedications
8-2-6: Building Numbering
8-2-7: Excavations
8-2-8: Barricades And Warning Lights
8-2-9: Obstructions
8-2-10: Sidewalks, Driveways And Parkways
8-2-11: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-2-12: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
8-2-13: State Regulations Adopted; Amendments
8-2-1: CONTROL AND SUPERVISION:
   A.   Control: All streets, public alleys and thoroughfares in the village
shall be the property of the village, under the control and management of the
president and board of trustees; and no additional streets or alleys shall be
created, and no existing streets or alleys shall be closed without the
permission of the village board.
   B.   Supervision: All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public
ways in the village shall be under the supervision of the superintendent of
public works and water 1 . He shall be charged with the enforcement of all
ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except traffic ordinances)
and is hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances. (1985 Code § 7-2-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1-1 of this title.
8-2-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay
any pavement or any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to
repair the same, without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications
for such permit shall be made to the village clerk and shall state the location
of the intended pavement or repair, the extent thereof, and the person who is
to do the actual construction work. No such permit shall be issued except on
order of the village board.
   B.   Bond: Each applicant shall file a bond in the amount provided by
subsection
8-2-9A of this chapter with surety to be approved by the village board,
conditioned to indemnify the village for any loss or damage resulting from the
work undertaken or the manner of doing the same.
   C.   Specifications:
      1.   General: All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in
conformity with specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the
village board.
      2.   Width:
         a.   All streets in the village shall be sixty six feet (66') wide
with the following exceptions:
            (1)   Section line streets shall be one hundred feet (100') wide.
            (2)   Half section line streets shall be eighty feet (80') wide.
            (3)   Streets of different width may be permitted, provided such
width is approved by the zoning board.
         b.   The curb line for industrial streets sixty six feet (66') wide
shall be a distance of nineteen feet (19') from the middle of the street. The
curb line for all other streets shall be set by the village board.
      3.   Grade: Grade levels prevailing at the effective date hereof shall be
the official grades for all thoroughfares flanked by one or more houses;
provided, however, that in any block where no houses are located, no grade
level will be deemed to exist. Prior to erection of any edifice in any block
where no grade level is established, the owner or contractor erecting such
edifice shall make application to the village board for the establishment of a
grade level. The term "grade level", with regard to existing levels, shall be
understood to mean the crown of any thoroughfare currently maintained by the
village, county or state. (1985 Code § 7-2-2)
      4.   Ramped Sidewalks: Any sidewalk constructed or repaired after the
effective date hereof shall be ramped anywhere that the sidewalk under
construction or repair meets a street, alley, parking lot or other interruption
to ensure accessibility to persons with disabilities in accordance with
specifications set forth in applicable law. (Ord. 92-20, 6-8-1992; amd. 2016
Code)
   D.   Streets Cleaned: The permittee shall be responsible for maintaining the
streets in a reasonably clean condition. However, as construction work does
produce mud and dirt on the streets and in storm sewer catch basins, there
shall be a fee paid for street cleaning before a permit is issued. (1985 Code §
7-2-2)
8-2-3: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall be kept in good repair.
Such repair work, whether done by the village or by the abutting owner, shall
be under the supervision of the superintendent. It shall be the duty of every
village officer or employee becoming cognizant of any defect in any street,
alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the
superintendent as soon as possible. (1985 Code § 7-2-3)
8-2-4: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Private Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display or sale of goods or
merchandise, or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any such
pavement.
   B.   Poles And Wires: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or
wires on or over any public street, alley or other public way without having
first secured permission from the village board. (1985 Code § 7-2-4)
8-2-5: DEDICATIONS:
In accordance with the practice universally followed heretofore, when any plat
is submitted to the board for approval or when any portion of land is to be
dedicated to the village for a public thoroughfare, such dedication or plat
shall be accompanied by an instrument conveying full title to the village,
instead of easement rights, in the portion to become a public thoroughfare.
(1985 Code § 7-2-5)
8-2-6: BUILDING NUMBERING:
Each building in the village shall be designated by a number, which number
shall be visible in the front thereof and be of such size and clarity as to be
easily deciphered from the curb line of the street. A number shall be assigned
to each building by the building inspector and shall be determined in
accordance with the numbering system currently prevailing in the city of
Chicago, being merely an extension thereof. The owner of any building in the
village who does not ascertain and post his number in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
fine. Any dispute arising out of the number of any building shall be determined
by resolution of the village board. (1985 Code § 7-2-6; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-7: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: It shall be unlawful to make any opening,
excavation or tunnel in any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place in the village without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the village clerk and shall
specify the intended location and purpose of the excavation.
   B.   Deposit: In each case, the applicant shall agree to pay all of the
costs of restoring such street, alley, sidewalk or other public place and the
surface thereof to the condition that existed before the opening, excavation or
tunnel was made. No such permit shall be issued until the applicant has
deposited with the superintendent the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each such opening, excavation or tunnel, which such deposit shall be deposited
by the applicant and used by the village for the purpose of paying the cost of
restoring such street, alley, sidewalk or other public place and the surface
thereof to the condition that existed before the opening, excavation or tunnel
was made; provided, that the applicant shall, in each case, do all necessary
backfilling or cause the same to be done. In restoring such street, alley,
sidewalk or other public place, the village may use its own employees and
equipment and make reasonable charges therefor, or it may engage the services
of other persons and equipment and charge the cost thereof to the applicant.
Any balance of said deposit remaining after the deduction of such charges or
costs shall be returned to the applicant, and any charges over the deposit
collected from said applicant. In case said applicant shall restore said street
to its original condition, said applicant shall be entitled to the return of
his deposit after one year from the date of application or restoration,
whichever is later; otherwise said deposit may be used as specified herein.
   C.   Bond: No such permit shall be issued unless the applicant has on file
with the village and in full force and effect, a bond in the amount of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with surety to be approved by the village,
conditioned to indemnify the village against any and all loss or liability
resulting from the making of such opening, excavation or tunnel.
   D.   Supervision: All such openings, excavations, tunnels, refills and
resurfacing shall be made subject to the supervision of the superintendent.
(1985 Code § 7-2-7)
8-2-8: BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS:
   A.   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or
other public place, or making an excavation in any such place, shall maintain
suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of the
work. Such barricades shall be protected by lights at nighttime.
Any defects in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent any injury, and
any person properly maintaining any opening or excavation in any such place
shall guard such opening or excavation while the same remains open by proper
barricades and lights.
   B.   All pits, excavations, fences, barriers, builder's equipment, building
materials or rubbish in or upon a street, alley, sidewalk or any other public
space shall have placed upon or by them illuminated lamps with red globes,
flares or other approved lights, in such manner that there shall be one light
at each end, and at intermediate points, as may be necessary to afford proper
warning after darkness.
   C.   Excavations shall be fenced.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade or
lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or
opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1985 Code § 7-2-8)
8-2-9: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Bond: Before the superintendent shall issue a street obstruction
permit, the applicant for such permit shall file with the clerk, on a form to
be furnished by the village and approved by the village attorney, a bond in the
penal sum of not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and conditioned to
indemnify, save and keep harmless the village from any and all loss, costs,
expense or liability of any kind whatsoever to which the village may suffer or
be put, or which may be recovered therefrom by reason of the issuance of such
permit, or by reason of any act or thing done or neglected to be done, under or
by virtue of the authority given in such permit. An annual bond may be given to
cover street obstruction permits.
   B.   Permit Fee And Deposit: The fee to be paid to the village for a street
occupation permit desired in connection with any work governed by this chapter
shall be one dollar ($1.00) for each month for each one foot (1') or fractional
part thereof of frontage so occupied. In addition to such permit fee, a deposit
shall be required to ensure the safety of the street and its complete
restoration, of not less than ten dollars ($10.00) per foot. Upon the removal
of such obstruction, so much (if any) of said deposit as shall be necessary to
restore said street shall be retained by the village, and the remainder of said
deposit shall then be returned to the depositor; provided, however, that
nothing herein contained shall preclude the village from maintaining an action
against the person to recover the damage done to any street or sidewalk. (1985
Code § 7-2-9; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-10: SIDEWALKS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKWAYS:
   A.   Installation And Maintenance Responsibilities Of Contiguous Owners:
      1.   Public sidewalks shall be installed on all public rights of way, as
per village requirements, by the owner of the contiguous premises. If the
existing sidewalk is in bad repair or cracked, the public sidewalk shall be
replaced by the owner of the contiguous premises who shall indemnify, hold
harmless and defend the village, its officers, agents, employees and
representatives against any and all liability for losses, expenses, damages,
injuries, demands, claims and fees (including attorney fees) in conjunction
with or arising out of any injury, death or damage to any person or property
sustained or alleged to have been sustained on or arising from the sidewalk or
parkway contiguous to his property.
      2.   It shall be the duty of each person residing on property abutting on
the village streets to maintain the area between his lot line and the curb line
free from weeds and other noxious herbage or matter.
      3.   Any person issued a license or permit by the village to do or
conduct a business therein shall keep and maintain the public sidewalk and
parkway in good repair and to keep the public sidewalk free from snow and ice.
   B.   Construction Requirements; Bond: The sidewalk installation bond shall
be deposited with the village in cash based on ten dollars ($10.00) per linear
foot. The sidewalk bond is in addition to any other bond required in this
chapter. A twenty five dollar ($25.00) inspection fee shall be paid for each
bond required on each and every site.
   C.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   Sidewalks: The following standard specifications for the
construction of public sidewalks shall be followed in all cases: portland
cement concrete sidewalks, section 6724 of "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction", adopted July 1, 1976, Illinois department of
transportation. The village shall furnish said specifications at the time the
permit is given.
      2.   Driveways Over Public Property: Driveways shall be constructed of
concrete materials or a bituminous aggregate mixture. The concrete shall be at
least seven inches (7") in thickness and have the same base and mixtures and
shall be laid as provided for public sidewalks in subsection C1 of this
section. The bituminous aggregate mixture shall be at least two inches (2") in
thickness with a nine inch (9") stone base.
      3.   Sidewalks And Driveways: Public sidewalks and driveways shall have a
two inch (2") in diameter galvanized iron rigid pipe or conduit extended under
it one foot (1') outside the sidewalk line in the parkway running the full
width of said sidewalk or driveway, eighteen inches (18") below finished grade.
All public sidewalks and driveways shall be paved as herein provided, and no
public sidewalk or driveway shall be laid or constructed without first securing
a permit. (1985 Code § 7-2-10)
      4.   Ramped Sidewalks: Any sidewalk constructed or repaired after the
effective date hereof shall be ramped anywhere that the sidewalk under
construction or repair meets a street, alley, parking lot or other
interruption, to ensure accessibility to persons with disabilities in
accordance with specifications set forth in applicable law. (Ord. 92-20, 6-8-
1992; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Parkway Beautification:
      1.   Public parkways shall be planted in grass in all zoning districts,
except for:
         a.   Driveways crossing the parkway.
         b.   Parkways on Joliet Road, or parkways which are contiguous to
property owned or used by a political subdivision, municipal corporation,
public institution, or a not for profit institution may be paved for parking if
the public sidewalk is installed.
      2.   The village hereby grants revocable permission for each citizen to
beautify the operation of land owned by the village and located between his
premises and the adjoining curb line; provided, however, that no encumbrance
other than bushes, grass, flowers, trees and decorative rocks shall be
established thereon. Fences, fenceposts, wires and any other type of
encumbrance is strictly prohibited. Such permission shall include all other
rights of possession exercisable against all but the duly appointed or elected
representatives of the village acting in official capacity, and action for
trespass may be brought by the adjoining owner with regard to such portion of
land, exclusive of the area occupied by the public sidewalk. (1985 Code § 7-2-
10)
8-2-11: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Injury To Pavements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal
upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is
guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly
laid pavement.
      2.   No tractor, traction engine, motor truck or other similar vehicle
shall be operated across, over or along any street in the village if any such
vehicle has on the periphery of any of the road wheels any block, stud, flange,
cleat, ridge, or lug or any projection of metal or wood which projects
radically beyond the tread or traffic surface of the tire; except, that this
prohibition shall not apply to tractors or traction engines equipped with what
is known as crawler type tractors, when the same does not contain any
projections of any kind likely to injure the surface of the road, nor to
tractors, traction engines and similar vehicles which have upon their road
wheels V-shaped, diagonal or other cleats arranged in such a manner as to be
continuously in contact with the road surface. In no event shall the surface of
any street be used as an area or space for turning any tractor or other farm
machinery in carrying on or performing any farming operations upon the adjacent
land. Provided, that nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the operation of
tractors, traction engines or motor trucks across any street in order to reach
adjacent lands if the street is protected by solid planks or other suitable
devices to prevent such vehicle from injuring the surface thereof.
   B.   Obstructions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, except as may
be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the superintendent.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or
alley. (1985 Code § 7-2-11)
8-2-12: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Streets: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, or any
glass or any articles which may do injury to any person, animal or property.
Coal or other materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to delivery or
use, provided such deposit does not reduce the usable width of the roadway at
the point to less than eighteen feet (18'); provided, that such material,
equipment or coal, other than material or equipment to be used in actual
building construction, shall not be permitted to remain on such street for more
than three (3) hours. Any such material, equipment or coal shall be guarded by
lights if the same remains upon any street after dark. (1985 Code § 7-2-12;
amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any
material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material,
or any glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property. Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the walk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided further, that no such
article shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1985 Code
§ 7-2-12)
8-2-13: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Adoption Of State Regulations: The "State Of Illinois Department Of
Transportation District One Permit Special Provisions", latest edition, revised
November 1990, a copy of which is attached to the ordinance codified herein and
made a part hereof, for any and all work performed by contractors on its
streets and rights of way, is hereby adopted except as revised in subsection B
of this section.
   B.   Amendments: The following amendments and revisions shall be made to the
document adopted in subsection A of this section:
Wherever the words "state" and "department" appear, they shall mean "village of
Hodgkins"; and wherever any reference to the words "district one permit office"
appear, they shall mean the "village of Hodgkins superintendent of public works
and water".
Section H: The following language shall be added:
At the contractor's option, full depth class D bituminous patches in accordance
with the attached IDOT standard 2427-1, may be used in lieu of full depth
concrete patches in areas where the existing pavement is bituminous or
aggregate. Patches shall be minimum 12" thick with 10" bituminous base course
in accordance with section 355 of the standard specification and 2" bituminous
concrete surface course class I in accordance with article 406 of the standard
specifications.
Section K: The following language shall be deleted:
All references to seeding. Only Illinois department of transportation approved
sod will be allowed for restoration of parkway landscaping. Fertilizer shall be
applied as per section K, and topsoil shall be pulverized virgin topsoil, 4"
minimum compacted thickness.
      (Ord. 94-7, 5-9-1994)
CHAPTER 3
WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
ARTICLE A. COMBINED SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Use Of Public System
8-3A-2: Rules And Regulations
8-3A-3: Special Connections
8-3A-4: Revenues
8-3A-5: Authority To Change Regulations
8-3A-6: Nonliability Of Village
8-3A-7: Enforcement
8-3A-8: Penalty
8-3A-1: USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEM:
   A.   Required: No building requiring toilet facilities or the use of water
for human consumption shall be constructed or used without being serviced by
the sanitary sewer and waterworks system provided by the village.
   B.   Privies: Outside privies are hereby prohibited.
   C.   Chemical Toilets: Temporary chemical toilet facilities may be used
where the contents are removed each day. Such chemical toilets shall be subject
to approval of the health officer.
   D.   Purchase Of Water; Securing Sewage Facilities: No person having his
residence or place of business within the territorial limits of the village, or
in an unincorporated area within one thousand feet (1,000') of the village,
shall be permitted to buy water or secure sewage facilities from any other
municipal corporation or other public utility for such residence or place of
business located in the village or in an unincorporated area within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the village whenever the water or sewer, or both, of
the waterworks and sewerage system of the village is adjacent or available to
his property. (1985 Code § 7-3A-1)
8-3A-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
Water consumers, licensed plumbers and others shall be governed by the
following rules and regulations:
   A.   Supervision: All work done in the streets and alleys or public places
of the village in connection with the sewer and water system shall be done in a
thorough and workmanlike manner and shall be under the supervision and
direction of the superintendent and subject to his approval.
   B.   Permits Required:
      1.   No connection shall be made with the sewer and water system without
proper permit from the combined water and sewer department.
      2.   No alteration, change of location or addition of any kind shall be
made to any water meter, water cock or service pipe connected in any way with
the supply to any building or premises without first obtaining a written permit
from the village superintendent.
   C.   Construction Specifications:
      1.   No water service pipe shall be laid nearer than eighteen inches
(18") from a parallel trench, and all service pipe shall be laid so as to
prevent freezing, breaking or rupture by settling.
      2.   A gooseneck shall be provided for each service pipe and must be
supported by means of brick built up from the bottom of the trench. (1985 Code
§ 7-3A-2)
      3.   The installation of all service pipe must be done in a workmanlike
manner under the supervision of the superintendent, and shall withstand a test
of one hundred fifty (150) pounds' pressure for a period of two (2) hours
without leaking.
      4.   There shall be a shutoff provided for every connection or top, which
shutoff must be in what is commonly called a buffalo box. Said buffalo box
shall be located as near the outer sidewalk edge as conditions will permit.
Each and every meter shall be set in a meter vault of not less than eighteen
inches (18") in internal diameter with a steel or cast iron lid or cover,
except where there are heated basements, in which event, the meter may be
installed in such basement. The pipe to be used in construction of the service
pipe from the shutoff box to the meter shall be of copper of the same
specifications as hereinbefore prescribed for the service pipe between the
water main and the shutoff box. (1985 Code § 7-3A-2; amd. 2016 Code)
      5.   All earth removed in excavating for the sewer and water service
pipes shall be returned to the trenches from which it was taken and shall be
replaced in layers not exceeding six inches (6") in depth. Each layer shall be
thoroughly compacted by ramming, and the earth shall be moistened sufficiently
to permit the return of all the earth to the trenches by ramming as above
specified. When required by the superintendent, sand shall be used as a
backfill, and excess earth shall be removed as directed by the superintendent.
When completed, the surface of the backfilling in the trenches shall not be
higher than the general surface of the ground on either side of same, and the
roadways of all streets shall be retained and shall be maintained for a period
of one year in as good condition for travel as they were before the
commencement of said work. (1985 Code § 7-3A-2)
      6.   All plumbing work shall be done by a licensed plumber. A complete
statement in writing shall be made to the comptroller by the person doing the
work of all connections made with the sewer and water system. This information
shall be used for purposes of billing for service charges. (1985 Code § 7-3A-2;
amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Additional Apparatus:
      1.   Boilers: All boilers connected with the sewer and water system shall
be provided with a tank of sufficient capacity to hold at least six (6) hours'
supply, and in case this supply is shut off for the purpose of repair or any
other purpose, the village will not be responsible for any damage that may
result. Consumers and other persons are prohibited from connecting pipes
directly with the village pressure to supply steam boilers.
      2.   Booster Pumps: No booster pump or other apparatus intended to
increase water pressure shall be installed unless a tank or reservoir is
provided between the meter and such pump or apparatus. Said tank or reservoir
shall be covered, and shall be provided with a vent or overflow to the
atmosphere, and shall be so designed as to prevent a direct hydraulic
connection between the meter and the pump or pressure increasing apparatus.
   E.   Hydrants: All hydrants or plugs placed in the village for fire purposes
are hereby declared to be the public hydrants, and no person, except such as
has been authorized by the board of trustees, shall open or draw water
therefrom, or in any manner interfere with same except in case of fire. (1985
Code § 7-3A-2)
   F.   Inspections: The superintendent and the village comptroller and other
authorized persons shall have free access to any premises in which water is
introduced for the purpose of examining the fixtures and pipes at any time
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of
any day. (1985 Code § 7-3A-2; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3A-3: SPECIAL CONNECTIONS:
Any person, being a regular consumer, may be permitted by the board of trustees
to make special connections with the street mains, together with hydrants and
house cocks, to be used in case of fire. For such permit, and for all water
used for fire purposes, there will be no charge, but all such work in
connection with the sewer and water system must be done by the village or under
the direction of the superintendent of public works and water. (1985 Code § 7-
3A-3)
8-3A-4: REVENUES:
   A.   Rates And Charges: A charge shall be made to the residents of the
village, which shall be reasonable, for the use and service of the waterworks
and sewerage system; and such charges or rates for that purpose shall be
established; and such rates shall be sufficient to pay the costs, maintenance,
operation, depreciation and payment of the principal and interest on any
revenue bonds that may be issued by the village for the construction,
installation, repairing and improving of said combined system.
   B.   Monies Kept Separate; Deposits: All revenues and monies derived from
the operation of the combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be held by
the superintendent separate and apart from his private funds and separate and
apart from all other funds of the village; and all of said sums, without any
deductions whatsoever, shall be delivered to the village depository not more
than seven (7) days after the receipt of same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may from time to time be directed by the village president and
board of trustees. (1985 Code § 7-3A-4)
   C.   Waterworks And Sewerage Fund: The village comptroller shall receive all
such revenues from the combined waterworks and sewerage system and all other
funds and monies incident to the operation of said system as the same may be
delivered to him and deposit the same in a separate fund designated as the
"waterworks and sewerage fund of the village of Hodgkins". The comptroller
shall administer said fund in every respect in the manner provided by the
statutes of the state of Illinois.
   D.   Accounting: The village comptroller shall establish a proper system of
accounts in which complete and correct entries shall be made of all
transactions relative to the waterworks and sewerage system, and at regular
annual intervals, he shall cause to be made, under the direction of the village
president and board of trustees, an audit by an independent auditing concern of
the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the combined sewer and
water system. (1985 Code § 7-3A-4; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3A-5: AUTHORITY TO CHANGE REGULATIONS:
Nothing contained in this article shall prevent the village from changing or
altering the provisions hereof, and the village shall have and retain authority
from time to time to change, increase, decrease or improve the system and
plant, or any part or portion thereof, or to establish new or different rates,
regulations or provisions concerning the use of the water and sewer system or
plant, or to alter, amend, change or repeal the provisions of this article.
(1985 Code § 7-3A-5)
8-3A-6: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
   A.   All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all the water used
hereunder, shall be upon the express condition that the village shall not be
liable, nor shall any claim be made against it, for damage or injury caused by
reason of the breakage of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with the system or plant, or any part or portion of the
plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery or by reason of stoppage, alteration, extension and renewals.
   B.   All repairs to service pipes and connections therefrom shall be at the
expense of the owner or tenant of the premises supplied, except repairs on the
section of the pipe included between the corporation cock at the main and the
curb cock in the parkway. (1985 Code § 7-3A-6)
8-3A-7: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent and the village police and all
persons in the employ of the village having police power, to enforce the
provisions of all ordinances, rules and regulations respecting the sewer and
water system and to arrest or cause to be arrested all persons violating the
same. (1985 Code § 7-3A-7)
8-3A-8: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate, neglect or refuse to comply with, or resist the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this article, where there are no
provisions to the contrary, in addition to the enforcement of the forfeiture,
liability, stipulations and reservations, or for any violation not otherwise
provided for herein, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (1985
Code § 7-3A-8; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE B. WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Use Of Public System Required
8-3B-2: Construction Requirements
8-3B-3: Meters
8-3B-3-1: Ownership Of Meters
8-3B-3-2: Turning On Water Supply
8-3B-3-3: Responsibility For Water Registered By Meter
8-3B-3-4: Repair And Replacement Of Meters
8-3B-3-5: Tampering With, Damage To Meters Prohibited
8-3B-3-6: Miscellaneous Meter Provisions
8-3B-4: Water Rates And Charges
8-3B-5: Bills For Service; Procedure For Nonpayment
8-3B-6: Improper Use Of Water
8-3B-7: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-3B-8: Use Of Unmetered Water
8-3B-9: Village Right To Shut Off Water
8-3B-10: Penalties
8-3B-1: USE OF PUBLIC SYSTEM REQUIRED:
In all cases where a standard water main is now installed or hereafter may be
installed in any street or alley or other public way in the village, all water
users located on any lot or parcel of real estate fronting or abutting on any
such street or alley or other public way shall make or cause to be made
connection to such standard water main and pay the tapping charges therefor
within six (6) months hereafter or within six (6) months after the installation
of such standard water main if the same is not currently installed, and such
users shall discontinue, within the same period of time, any connection which
they may have had with any temporary water line. (1985 Code § 7-3B-1)
8-3B-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Requirements: Any person or corporation desiring to make any
connection with the water system or use water therefrom shall first make
application to the superintendent upon a form or forms to be furnished by the
department. Said application shall contain an agreement on the part of the
applicant that there will be compliance with all the rules and regulations,
conditions and provisions of any ordinance relating to the water and sewer
system; that all water rates and charges and all fines and penalties assessed,
charged or imposed against said applicant or the property described in said
application will be paid. When the applicant hereunder has complied with all
the provisions of the ordinances of the village, a permit shall then be issued
by the superintendent authorizing the connection to be made and specifying the
size thereof. All plumbing and plumbing work and all excavating, filling and
replacement of pavement shall be done by a plumber authorized by the ordinances
of the village to do such plumbing; provided, however, all such replacement of
pavement shall be done by the village in accordance with the provisions of this
code or other applicable ordinances. The permit shall authorize any such
plumber to do such plumbing and plumbing work as is described in the permit.
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   Method Of Installation:
         a.   Whenever any permit for a connection with the water mains of the
village is issued herein, the superintendent, or an employee of the village so
designated for the work by the superintendent, shall tap the main of said
system where such connection is to be made and shall insert the corporation
cock.
         b.   The connection from the main to the service cock shall be placed
at least five feet (5') below the level of the ground, and type K copper pipe
shall be laid sufficiently waiving so that it shall be at least one foot (1')
longer than if laid in a straight line and shall be placed in such manner as to
prevent rupture or breakage from settling to the ground.
         c.   Every person supplied with water from the village sewer and water
system shall, at his own cost and expense, have installed and kept in repair
all pipes leading from the buffalo or shutoff box to his building, structure or
premises which is supplied with water through such service pipe.
         d.    Each water service pipe shall be connected with the main water
pipe and shall extend horizontally at right angles with the main water pipe to
a point at least eighteen feet (18') from the centerline of the street and
shall be provided with a brass stopcock of not less than one inch (1") in
diameter to be installed with a telescopic shutoff box of the best quality of
cast iron or first grade steel pipe.
2. Materials And Sizes:
a. No connection with any water main of the village shall be less than one inch
(1"), type K copper pipe.
         b.   All corporation and curb cocks used in connection with the sewer
and water system shall be made of bronze which shall have the following
composition: (1985 Code § 7-3B-2)
 
Copper 80% to 85%
Tin    4% to 6%
Zinc   4% to 6%
 
(1985 Code § 7-3B-2; amd. 2016 Code)
         c.   All casts shall be high grade, true to form and dimensions,
smooth and free from all sand or blowholes or other foundry defects, and all
material used herein shall be of the best quality and subject to the approval
of the village board of trustees. Samples of corporation cocks and stopcocks
must be submitted to the department for inspection before installation.
   C.   Purchase Of Materials: All corporation cocks and goosenecks, curb cocks
and buffalo or shutoff boxes and meter boxes installed in connection with the
sewer and water system of the village must be purchased through the village.
   D.   Water Service To More Than One Premises: No service pipe shall be laid
or used to supply water to two (2) or more distinct premises or buildings
unless separate stopcocks for each of the premises or building shall be placed
outside of such premises in the parkway, as herein provided, and a permit fee
shall be obtained for each service.
   E.   Use Of Plumber's License: No plumber shall allow his name to be used by
any other person or party directly or indirectly for the purpose of obtaining
permits or doing any work under his license.
   F.   Inspections: All service pipes and connections shall be inspected and
approved by the superintendent or other persons under his direction, and no
such service pipes shall be covered until they have been so inspected;
provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to
work done under the jurisdiction of the board of local improvements. (1985 Code
§ 7-3B-2; amd. Ord. 19-07, 7-8-2019)
8-3B-3: METERS:
All water supplied by the village shall be measured by water meters approved by
the superintendent of public works and water. (Ord. 92-4, 2-10-1992)
8-3B-3-1: OWNERSHIP OF METERS:
All water meters heretofore installed or that may hereafter be installed are
hereby declared to be the exclusive property of the village regardless of the
fact that a service charge to cover the cost thereof may have been or will be
collected from the property owner. (Ord. 92-4, 2-10-1992)
8-3B-3-2: TURNING ON WATER SUPPLY:
No plumber or other person shall turn on the supply of water to any building or
premises prior to the installation of a meter on all service lines installed,
or shall allow the same to be done, without a permit from the superintendent of
public works and water; provided, however, that this section shall not be
construed to prevent plumbers from turning on water to test the piping and
fixtures and for providing water for construction purposes, in which case, the
plumber shall turn off the water as soon as these needs are met. (Ord. 92-4, 2-
10-1992)
8-3B-3-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER REGISTERED BY METER:
   A.   The property owner or tenant of the premises supplied with water shall
be held responsible for all water registered by the meter, and no reduction
shall be made or rebate allowed to any consumer on account of leakage or
alleged leakage in any pipe, tank or other apparatus or device.
   B.   Any person or party who shall vacate any premises or any party who
shall enter upon or occupy any premises shall immediately, before vacating said
premises or moving to said premises, notify the village clerk and the combined
water and sewer department and secure reading of the meter. (Ord. 92-4, 2-10-
1992)
8-3B-3-4: REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT OF METERS:
   A.   After the meter is placed, only officers or employees of the department
shall be allowed to repair, remove or in any manner interfere with the same. A
stopcock or valve shall be placed on each side of the meter.
   B.   The cost of keeping each meter in repair shall be paid by the village.
The person upon whose application any meter is installed, the consumer, the
occupant or the user and owner of premises shall be liable for any breakage or
any loss or damage to such meter in any way, except by ordinary use and wear,
and the cost of making good such loss or damage shall be paid by either or all
of such person, consumer, occupant, user or owner as soon as the bill for same
is presented, and the amount therefor shall be a lien against the premises for
which said meter was installed, to the extent and with the same effect as water
rates. In the event a water meter shall have become worn and unfit for use, the
village will have a new meter installed without cost to the customer. The
president and board of trustees shall, in all cases, determine the kind and
pattern of water meters to be adopted, and no other kind shall be installed at
any time. (1985 Code § 7-3B-3-3; amd. Ord. 92-4, 2-10-1992)
8-3B-3-5: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO METERS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, cause a malfunction of,
remove, injure or destroy any water meter. In addition to any penalty imposed
in a quasi-criminal prosecution for violation of this section, the person so
injuring, removing or destroying any such water meter shall reimburse the
village in full for any cost incurred by the village in repairing or replacing
the same. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the premises and the
individual water property owner to prevent any such tampering, removing,
injuring or destruction of any such water meters. It shall further be the duty
of the owner or occupant of the premises and the individual water property
owner to notify the village of any tampering, removing, injuring or destruction
of any such water meters immediately upon their acquiring knowledge thereof.
(Ord. 92-4, 2-10-1992)
8-3B-3-6: MISCELLANEOUS METER PROVISIONS:
   A.   Location: Water meters shall be located at such place and in such
manner as the village, through it board of trustees, shall direct.
   B.   Box Specifications: Boxes or vaults in which meters are to be placed
shall be in accordance with specifications to be prescribed by the village, and
such boxes or vaults must be so constructed as to prevent freezing of the water
flowing through such meters. Vaults must be kept in such condition so that the
meter may be read at any time.
   C.   Access: The superintendent and every person authorized by him and all
meter inspectors shall have ready access to the premises, place or building
where such meters are located for the purpose of reading, examining, testing
and repairing the same, and it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation
to interfere with, prevent, or obstruct said superintendent or such other
person or inspector in his work hereunder. Every consumer of water shall take
the same upon the conditions prescribed in this article. (Ord. 92-4, 2-10-1992)
8-3B-4: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Water Rates: All consumers, users or properties within the village
furnished water by the village shall pay the following rates for water consumed
as recorded by water meters: (Ord. 00-17, 12-11-2000)
      1.   Senior citizen single-family residence: Minimum charge for every two
(2) months shall be thirty dollars ninety two cents ($30.92). All water used in
excess of seven thousand (7,000) gallons for said two (2) month period shall be
six dollars thirty one cents ($6.31) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. (Ord.
12-10, 12-10-2012)
For the purpose of this subsection, a "senior citizen single-family residence"
is hereby defined as a single- family residence owned and occupied by one or
more persons over the age of sixty five (65) who is responsible for the payment
of the water bill. Upon proof of such senior citizenship, said person shall be
allowed a discount of thirty percent (30%) upon payment before the penalty
date. (Ord. 00-17, 12-11-2000)
      2.   Two (2) residential units or less: Minimum charge per every two (2)
months shall be forty four dollars seventeen cents ($44.17). All water used in
excess of seven thousand (7,000) gallons for said two (2) month period shall be
six dollars thirty one cents ($6.31) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. (Ord.
12-10, 12-10-2012)
For the purpose of this subsection, every mobile home, flat, apartment or
separate living accommodation shall be considered a residential unit. (Ord. 00-
17, 12-11-2000)
      3.   Three (3) or more residential units: Minimum charge per every two
(2) months shall be forty four dollars seventeen cents ($44.17), plus one
dollar nine cents ($1.09) per each residential unit. All water used in excess
of seven thousand (7,000) gallons for said two (2) month period shall be six
dollars thirty one cents ($6.31) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. A security
deposit of forty four dollars seventeen cents ($44.17) shall be paid upon
application for water usage. (Ord. 12-10, 12-10-2012)
For the purpose of this subsection, every mobile home, flat, apartment, or
separate living accommodation shall be considered a residential unit. (Ord. 00-
17, 12-11-2000)
      4.   Commercial and industrial users: Minimum charge per every two (2)
months shall be one hundred fifteen dollars seventy eight cents ($115.78), plus
a charge of ten cents ($0.10) for each water outlet. All water used in excess
of fourteen thousand (14,000) gallons for said two (2) month period shall be
eight dollars thirty cents ($8.30) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. A security
deposit of one hundred sixteen dollars twenty cents ($116.20) shall be payable
upon application for water usage. (Ord. 14-17, 12-8-2014)
For the purpose of this subsection, "commercial and industrial users" are
hereby defined as any use of the premises for nonresidential purposes and shall
include premises combining commercial and residential uses.
A "water outlet" is hereby defined as any opening dispensing water by a valve
or other mechanical or electronic device and shall include faucets; water
closets; showerheads; sprinkler valves, fire protection, lawn, or other type;
drinking fountains; and similar dispensing units. (Ord. 00-17, 12-11-2000)
      5.   Other users: The water used for which rates and methods of
measurement are not specifically provided for herein shall be estimated by the
superintendent of public works and water or by such officer as may be
designated by the president and the board of trustees, and assessed eight
dollars thirty cents ($8.30) for each one thousand (1,000) gallons or fraction
thereof, with a minimum charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00), payable in
advance. (Ord. 14-17, 12-8-2014)
   B.   Connection Fees:
      1.   Specific Connection Fees:
         a.   Connection fees for connecting to the water mains of the village,
within its corporate limits, shall be according to the following schedule,
except in the case of special connection fees for certain water mains as
provided by ordinance:
Single-family detached residences, per building                       $ 100.00
Single-family attached residences, per dwelling unit                  100.00
Multiple-family residence buildings, including townhouses, per        200.00
dwelling unit
Industrial commercial and office buildings: A connection fee based on  
the service connection size to the public water main, as follows:
 Connection size:                                                     
  1 inch                                                            100.00
  11/2 inches                                                       500.00
  2 inches                                                          1,000.00
  3 inches                                                          2,500.00
  4 inches                                                          4,000.00
  6 inches                                                          5,000.00
  8 inches                                                          6,500.00
  10 inches                                                         8,000.00
  12 inches                                                         10,000.00
 
Plus two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each additional unit (over 1) in any
building, where there are multiple property owners with only one meter. For
purposes of this subsection, a "unit" shall be deemed to be that amount of
space designated to be used by or leased or sold to any one entity or person.
         b.   Any application made pursuant to this subsection B1 must be
accompanied by the required fee(s) for the type of connection being requested.
         c.   The connection fee includes, as a part thereof, the cost of the
village supervising and inspecting the tapping of the main and the making of
the connection, provided said connection is made during the regular working
hours of the superintendent of public works and water and the superintendent's
employees. If any connection is not made during regular working hours, an
inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be charged and shall be payable
at the time of the inspection. The actual capping of the main and connection to
the system shall be done by the property owner's contractor at the property
owner's expense. All materials such as corporation cocks, wye fittings, curb
stops and buffalo boxes shall be provided by the property owner, or the
property owner's contractor, according to village specifications and at the
property owner's expense.
         d.   The tapping of the main and connection to the system shall be
completed within sixty (60) days of the date of application. Upon expiration of
this sixty (60) day period for connection, any application for connection shall
no longer be valid. No refund of any connection fee will be made if any
applicant fails to have the connection to the system completed within this
sixty (60) day period. If the applicant does fail to have such connection
completed within sixty (60) days of application, a new application must be made
for connection along with another payment of the required fee(s). (Ord. 92-4,
2-10-1992)
      2.   Additional Connection Fees: The connection fees for connecting to
the water mains of the village established by ordinance shall be subject to
additional fair and reasonable charges established from time to time for
connection to water mains constructed or owned by the village, pursuant to the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-150-1, as amended and as added
from time to time by ordinance. (Ord. 92-4, 2-10-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Use Of Water During Building Construction: Whenever a building permit
is issued, a flat water service charge of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
residential building and a flat water service charge of two hundred dollars
($200.00) for a commercial or industrial building shall be paid, in addition to
the building permit fee, to the village for each three (3) month period while
the building is under construction and before the permanent water meter is
installed and protected from freezing to cover the cost of unmetered water used
during the construction period and anticipated use in the building prior to
said installation of the permanent meter. If, in the opinion of the
superintendent of public works and water, the use of water during the
construction period may be excessive, the superintendent may require the
installation, at the property owner's expense, of a temporary outside meter to
measure water used and to be paid for at the regular metered water rates. (Ord.
92-4, 2-10-1992)
   D.   Emergency Water Sale To Adjoining Municipalities: When the village is
requested to sell water from its system to an adjoining municipality due to an
interruption in that municipality's normal water distribution system, the rate
to be charged by the village shall be commensurate with the rate charged by
said adjoining municipality to Hodgkins in similar circumstances. (Ord. 06-09,
5-8-2006)
   E.   Temporary Water Shutoff: When the water is shut off temporarily at the
request of any consumer and the meter is not removed, the consumer shall pay
the regular minimum rate per quarter, plus the following for the services of
the combined water and sewer department in turning off and on the water:
      1.   Residential customers: Five dollars ($5.00).
      2.   Commercial customers: Fifty dollars ($50.00). (1985 Code § 7-3B-4;
amd. 2016 Code)
8-3B-5: BILLS FOR SERVICE; PROCEDURE FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Due Date; Late Fee: All water bills to users supplied by the village
shall be due and payable within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the bill for
the previous month's period. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be charged
all users who pay after the thirtieth day of the billing month. All payments
made on arrears shall be applied to the delinquencies in the order in which
they were incurred. (1985 Code § 7-3B-5)
   B.   Delinquent Payments: Whenever any water bills shall remain unpaid for a
period of more than sixty (60) days from the date of the statement, the water
may be turned off from the premises of such delinquent user, and the service
shall not be resumed until all water bills in arrears shall have been paid,
including all penalties accrued, plus the following, for the services of the
village combined water and sewer department in turning off and turning on the
water.
      1.   Residential customers: Five dollars ($5.00).
      2.   Commercial customers: Fifty dollars ($50.00). (1985 Code § 7-3B-5;
amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Notice And Request For Hearing:
      1.   Before said water shall be turned off, notice shall be served upon
the user, either by certified mail or in person, informing said user of the
sixty (60) day delinquency, the amount due, plus penalties, and the date on
which service will be shut off.
      2.   If said user requests a hearing on this matter, the village shall
grant said user a hearing within ten (10) days of such request. The village
president shall designate a person to serve as hearing officer in the matter
and determine whether the amount of the billing is true and correct and whether
sufficient reason, based upon the amount of delinquency and past payment
history, exists to turn off the water.
      3.   If the user is a person other than the owner of the premises, then
the owner or person designated as the tax assessee shall also receive notice of
said water turnoff. (1985 Code § 7-3B-5)
   D.   Form Of Notice: The form of notice shall be as follows:
         NOTICE
 
Please take notice that your water bill has remained unpaid for more than sixty
(60) days from the statement dated               . The delinquency totals
$          and penalties total $          . The total amount owed to the
Village of Hodgkins is $          . Water service will be turned off on
               .
If you desire to contest any of these delinquencies and amounts, the Village of
Hodgkins will grant you a hearing within ten (10) days of your request. You may
request a hearing by signing and returning this form to the Village
Comptroller, Village of Hodgkins, 8990 Lyons Street, Hodgkins, Illinois 50525.
I DESIRE A HEARING ON MY DELINQUENT WATER BILL.
Name        Address     
    
Account Number
 
   E.   Water Meter Check: All water meter inspections requested of the village
by the user will be at the following rates:
      1.   Residential customers: Five dollars ($5.00) per inspection;
      2.   Commercial customers: Fifty dollars ($50.00) per inspection;
provided, however, that if the meter is in fact found to be defective, the
inspection fee is waived.
   F.   Temporary Water Shutoff: When the water is shut off temporarily at the
request of any one user and the meter is not removed, the user shall pay the
regular minimum rate per quarter, plus the following for the services of the
village combined water and sewer department in turning on and off the water:
      1.   Residential customers: Five dollars ($5.00).
      2.   Commercial customers: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   G.   Lien Rights: The village may have a lien filed against the property as
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes article 11, division 139. The
superintendent of public works and water shall be authorized and have the power
to sign, file and release said lien for and on behalf of the village. No such
lien shall be released, however, until all the delinquent charges, including
accrued interest, the cost of recording, attorney fees, and the following
release fees have been paid:
      1.   Residential customers: Five dollars ($5.00).
      2.   Commercial customers: Fifty dollars ($50.00). (1985 Code § 7-3B-5;
amd. 2016 Code)
   H.   Responsibility Of Water User And Landowner:
      1.   No person owing water charges and moving to other premises where
there are water connections or where connections shall afterwards be made shall
be supplied with water until such charges in arrears are paid in full.
      2.   In all cases, the water shall be billed to the owner of the premises
who shall be legally responsible for the payment of the water bill. All
billings now made to a tenant shall hereinafter be made to the owner. The
village may, by contract or board action, allow direct billing to a consumer
other than an owner upon such additional conditions as it may impose.
      3.   In no case shall the village supply a meter to permit a tenant to be
separately metered. In cases of premises occupied by a tenant and said tenant
moves from the premises, no water shall be furnished to a new tenant until all
the water charges are paid in full by the owner. (1985 Code § 7-3B-5; amd. Ord.
92-4, 2-10-1992; 2016 Code)
8-3B-6: IMPROPER USE OF WATER:
   A.   Supplying Water To Other Premises: No person, whether owner or
occupant, in possession or control of any building, structure or premises into
which water is supplied through the village sewer and water system, shall be
allowed, without permission from the village president and board of trustees,
to supply other persons or families, or to supply water from such building or
premises to any building, structure or premises. If any person violates any
provision of this subsection, the supply of water to the building, structure or
premises of such person shall be shut off and stopped forthwith, and the water
shall not again be turned on to such building, structure or premises from which
it was cut off until there shall have been paid to the village such sum of
money as the village president and board of trustees shall deem properly due
the village.
   B.   Fraud; Waste Of Water: If, after the water supply shall have been
turned on to any building, structure or premises, it shall be found by any
officer or employee of the village that fraudulent representations have been
made by an applicant for such water supply or that water is being used in or
upon such building, structure or premises for purposes not set forth in the
application made for such water supply, or that there is wilful and
unreasonable use or waste of water, the proper officer or employee of the
village shall have the authority, and it shall be his duty, to cut off and stop
the supply of water to such building, structure or premises forthwith, and the
water shall not be turned on to such building, structure or premises until the
person or persons responsible for such fraudulent representation or for such
use of water or wilful or unreasonable waste thereof shall pay to the village
such additional sum of money for such water supply or on account of such
unreasonable waste of water as the president and board of trustees shall find
to be properly due the village. (1985 Code § 7-3B-6)
   C.   Outdoor Water Use Restrictions: Unrestricted lawn sprinkling is not
allowed from May 15 to September 15 of each year during the time of day (midday
to late afternoon) when sprinkling is most ineffective. (Ord. 09-04, 4-13-2009)
8-3B-7: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Turn On: No person not duly authorized shall turn on any
service cock, or use water therefrom when so turned on, under penalty of a fine
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense, and the person so using or
wasting water in such unlawful manner shall be liable to pay therefor at the
regular water rates.
   B.   Breaking Seals: No seal placed by the department for the protection of
any meter, valve, fitting or other water connection shall be defaced or broken
except on written authority from the superintendent.
   C.   Use Of Fire Hydrants: No person or persons, other than members of the
village combined water and sewer department and the Pleasant View fire
protection district, shall use water from any fire hydrant connection with the
village waterworks and sewerage system, except for extinguishing fires or
unless especially authorized by the superintendent.
   D.   Obstructing Access To Apparatus: No person shall in any manner obstruct
or cause to be obstructed the free access of any duly authorized officer or
employee of the village to any stopcock, water meter, elevator dial, buffalo or
shutoff box, or connection with any water main or service pipe by means of any
coal, lumber, brick, building material or any other means or device whatsoever,
or use or prevent free access thereto by such officer or employee whenever such
officer or employee shall desire access thereto.
   E.   Water Flowing Upon Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person,
without a permit, to allow any water to flow into or upon any public
thoroughfare including, but not limited to, sump pump discharges of clear
rainwater which discharges onto his property but is so directed to flow into
the street or alleyway. (1985 Code § 7-3B-7)
   F.   Use Of Groundwater As Potable Water:
      1.   Definitions:
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or its legal
representative.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
      2.   Use Of Groundwater As Potable Water Prohibited: The use or attempt
to use, as a potable water supply, groundwater from within the corporate limits
of the village by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method
is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 01-03, 8-13-2001)
      3.   Penalty: Any person violating the provision of this subsection F
shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 01-03, 8-13-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3B-8: USE OF UNMETERED WATER:
Before a permit for the use of water shall be issued where meters cannot be
conveniently used, the person applying for the same shall deposit fifty dollars
($50.00) with the superintendent as payment on account of water to be used by
him. On or before thirty (30) days from the date of the permit, the person to
whom such permit is issued shall file with the department a statement in
writing, verified by his affidavit, showing fully the purpose for which the
water was used by him for that time, and the amount and location of all work
done by him during said time in connection with which any water was used or
required. The superintendent shall ascertain from said testament and any other
information, the amount due for water so used. If the amount so found to be
due, together with all other fees and costs chargeable against such person, is
less than the sum deposited, the surplus shall be paid back to the depositor.
If the amount due for water so used is more than the sum deposited, then the
excess shall be paid at once to the comptroller by such person. If such person
desires to continue to use the water after he shall have filed his statement,
he shall again deposit fifty dollars ($50.00) with the superintendent and shall
continue to make deposits thereafter and in the same manner as is provided
herein with respect to the first deposit, and the method of determining the
amount of water used and the charge for the same shall be the same as the
provisions respecting the first deposit as hereinbefore provided. (1985 Code §
7-3B-8; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3B-9: VILLAGE RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER:
The village reserves to itself, through its president and board of trustees,
the right to shut off the water supply to any consumers of water at any time
without preliminary notice, and all consumers of water shall be subject at all
times to this reservation and right. Nonpayment by a consumer of a water charge
shall subject the consumer to immediate shutoff of the water supply. (1985 Code
§ 7-3B-9)
8-3B-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who shall turn on the supply of water: 1) to any premises;
or 2) for which the supply has for any reason been shut off by the village; or
3) for other uses for which rates of measurement have not been specifically
provided for, without first having obtained a permit so to do, shall be subject
to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every offense, and every day such
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Any violation of this article, not otherwise provided for herein, shall
be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and in addition thereto, the
department shall not issue permits of any kind within its jurisdiction to the
offending party until the said party has complied with the provisions of this
article. (1985 Code § 7-3B-10; amd. 2016 Code)
ARTICLE C. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Purpose
8-3C-2: Scope
8-3C-3: Village Policy
8-3C-4: Definitions
8-3C-5: Water System
8-3C-6: Cross Connections Restricted
8-3C-7: Surveys And Investigations
8-3C-8: Backflow Prevention Required; Testing And Records
8-3C-9: Where Protection Required
8-3C-10: Type Of Protection Required
8-3C-11: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-3C-12: Inspections, Tests And Maintenance
8-3C-13: Booster Pumps
8-3C-14: Violations
8-3C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is:
   A.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
   C.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-
1991)
8-3C-2: SCOPE:
This article shall apply to all premises served by the public potable water
supply system of the village. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-3: VILLAGE POLICY:
The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back siphonage
of contaminants through the customer's water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the superintendent of public works and water or his authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of public works
and water shall give notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow
prevention device at each service connection to the premises. The consumer
shall immediately install such approved device or devices at his own expense.
Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the consumer to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed. The
consumer shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair
as required in subsection
8-3C-8D of this article for a period of at least five (5) years. The
superintendent of public works and water may require the consumer to submit a
cross connection inspection report to the village to assist in determining
whether or not service line protection will be required. All cross connection
inspections shall be conducted by a CCCDI certified by the Illinois
environmental protection agency. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
   APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation For Cross-Connection Control Of The University Of Southern
California, Association Of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
Direct Cross Connection: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
Indirect Cross Connection: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe", as used to qualify health hazard, means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 654.
   PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes
including, without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. Plumbing
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois
administrative code 654 for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters.
   B.   Process waters.
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality.
   D.   Cooling waters.
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems.
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension.
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service connections or which
regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per
year. A public water supply is either a community water supply or a
noncommunity water supply.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves, together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow and at
the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks shall
be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross connection control devices and methods located within
that customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material, not dangerous to health, may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the superintendent of public works and water.
   WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3C-5: WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Components Of Water System: The water system shall be considered as
made up of two (2) parts: the public water supply system and the consumer's
water system.
   B.   Public Water Supply:
      1.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the superintendent of public
works and water up to the point where the consumer's water system begins.
      2.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public
water supply distribution system.
      3.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's
water system.
   C.   Consumer's Water System: The consumer's water system shall include all
parts of the facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from
the public water supply distribution system to points of use. (Ord. 91-31, 8-
12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-6: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   B.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the agency.
   C.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-7: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
   A.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved CCCDI for the inspection of the presence or absence of cross
connections within the consumer's premises, and testing, repair and maintenance
of cross connection control devices within the consumer's premises. (Ord. 91-
31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
   B.   On request by the superintendent of public works and water, or his
authorized representative, the consumer shall furnish information regarding the
piping system or systems or water use within the customer's premises. The
consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the superintendent
of public works and water for the verification of information submitted by the
consumer to the superintendent regarding cross connection inspection results.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his premises to determine whether
there are actual or potential cross connections to his water system through
which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or the public potable
water system. All cross connection control or other plumbing inspections must
be conducted in accordance with 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/3(1). (Ord.
91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3C-8: BACKFLOW PREVENTION REQUIRED; TESTING AND RECORDS:
It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow into the
public water system by ensuring that:
   A.   All cross connections are removed or approved cross connection control
devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
   B.   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance with
the manufacturer's instructions.
   C.   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the agency as a
CCCDI. The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical testing in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
   D.   1. Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at least
annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer. (Ord. 91-31, 8-
12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
      2.   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4(e). (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991; amd. 2016
Code)
      3.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test, name of the CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
      4.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         a.   Date of each test;
         b.   Name and approval number of the person performing the test;
         c.   Test results;
         d.   Repairs or servicing required;
         e.   Repairs and date completed; and
         f.   Service performed and date completed. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991,
eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-9: WHERE PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving
premises where, in the judgment of the superintendent of public works and
water, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system exist.
(Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the superintendent of public
works and water, and the source is approved by the Illinois environmental
protection agency.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having source or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the superintendent of public works and water.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the superintendent of public works and water and/or the CCCDI, are not
correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to
determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   C.   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 890, and the agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
administrative code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving,
but not necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities unless the
superintendent of public works and water determines that no actual or potential
hazard to the public water supply system exists:
Car washes.
Chemical plants.
Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
Food or beverage processing plants.
Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
Laboratories.
Metal plating industries.
Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
Petroleum processing or storage plants.
Piers, docks, and waterfront facilities.
Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater pumping
stations. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-10: TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED:
   A.   The type of protection required under subsections
8-3C-9B1, B2 and B3 of this article shall depend on the degree of hazard which
exists as follows:
      1.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that could
cause a severe health hazard.
      2.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      3.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   B.   The type of protection required under subsections
8-3C-9B4 and B5 of this article shall be an approved fixed proper air gap
separation or an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device.
   C.   Where the public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for
a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall
be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source, or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   D.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines. (Ord.
91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-11: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   A.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by this article
shall be approved by the Research Foundation For Cross-Connection Control Of
The University Of Southern California, American Water Works Association,
American Society Of Sanitary Engineering, or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specifications.
   B.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. The manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on site. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-12: INSPECTIONS, TESTS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by this article are installed to have inspections,
tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following schedule or
more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in the
manufacturer's instructions:
      1.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document that
a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of the
service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within twenty four (24) hours.
      2.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at the
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      3.   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five (5)
days.
   B.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   C.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   D.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of the person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   E.   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by this article are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by subsection A of this section.
   F.   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
superintendent of public works and water. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-
1991)
8-3C-13: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the superintendent of
public works and water, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
8-3C-14: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The superintendent of public works and water shall deny or discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein any backflow prevention device required by this article is not
installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the
superintendent of public works and water, or if it is found that the backflow
prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross
connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure cutoff required by this
article is not installed and maintained in working order.
   B.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with this
article and to the satisfaction of the superintendent of public works and
water, and the required reconnection fee is paid. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff.
8-12-1991)
   C.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the consumer
has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance with this
article and to the satisfaction of the superintendent of public works and
water. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Neither the village, the superintendent of public works and water, or
his or its agents or assigns shall be liable to any customers of the village
for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of
said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of this article,
whether or not said termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
   E.   The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   F.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this article shall be
served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and providing a
reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
   G.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article, in addition
to the fine provided, shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss
or damage occasioned by the village by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice. (Ord. 91-31, 8-12-1991, eff. 8-12-1991)
ARTICLE D. SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3D-1: Sewer System Properties
8-3D-2: Definitions
8-3D-3: Building Sewers And Connections
8-3D-4: Use Of The Public Sewers
8-3D-5: Damage To, Tampering With System
8-3D-6: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-3D-7: Wastewater Service Charges
8-3D-8: Penalties
8-3D-1: SEWER SYSTEM PROPERTIES:
   A.   All property, real, personal, and mixed, comprising the now existing
sanitary sewerage system, except for trunk and interceptor sewers owned by the
metropolitan water reclamation district of Greater Chicago, located in the
village are found, determined and declared to constitute the properties of the
sewerage system of the village.
   B.   The sanitary sewerage system shall be owned and operated by the village
as a utility known as the "sewerage system of the village", and all
improvements and extensions to said utility, and all properties, assets,
obligations and liabilities of all kinds of the sanitary sewerage system,
existing, outstanding and accruing or to accrue, shall be held, used and
acknowledged as the properties, assets, obligations and liabilities of the
utility. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
8-3D-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
   BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
   BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BIMONTHLY: Every two (2) month period.
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of
the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
   COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER: Shall include transit lodging, congregate care lodging,
retail and wholesale establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise,
or rendering services, located in the village.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of any municipal obligation or security
which is outstanding.
   DIRECTOR: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Are defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.), as amended
(Pub.L. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by "Title II - Grants For
Construction Of Treatment Works" of the act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL USER: Includes establishments located in the village engaged in
manufacturing activities including, but not limited to, those involving the
mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of substance into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharge permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGES: Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
   MWRDGC: The metropolitan water reclamation district of Greater Chicago and
its user charge ordinance.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that: a) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more
per average workday; or b) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the
flow carried by the municipal system receiving the waste; or c) has in its
waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under
section 307(a) of the federal act; or d) is found by the permit issuing
authority, in connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit, to have the
publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact,
either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on that
treatment works or upon the quality or effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY: Is permissible.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
   NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or other requirements issued
by the administrator or, where appropriate, by the director, after enactment of
the federal clean water act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Wastewater with constituents within the limits of
BOD5 concentration of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and a
suspended solids concentration of two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250
mg/l).
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
pH: The logarithm (base-10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA division of laboratory
methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD and 0.20
pound of suspended solids.
   PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: Any privy, privy vault, septic tank, septic
field, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the treatment or
disposal of sewage which is not connected to a public sanitary sewer.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. The term shall also include sewers within or outside the village
boundaries that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the
village sanitary sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
   REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance of which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER: All dwelling units such as homes, mobile homes,
apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings located in the village.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which stormwater, surface water and groundwater
or polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or other waste liquids,
including stormwater, surface water and groundwater drainage.
   SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SHALL: Is mandatory.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in the quantity of flow, exceeds, for
any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5)
times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   STATE ACT: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970.
   STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois anti-pollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
   STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries stormwater, surface water and groundwater
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SUPERINTENDENT: The village public works and water superintendent.
   SURCHARGE: The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in section
8-3D-4 of this article.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   USER CLASS: The type of user, residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial or industrial, as defined herein.
   VILLAGE: The village of Hodgkins.
   WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid carried and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge computed per quarter or month levied
on all users of wastewater facilities as computed in subsection
8-3D-7D of this article.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: As defined in the water pollution regulations of
Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
8-3D-3: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with, or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
superintendent. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for single-family residential service; and b) for
service to multiple-family residential, commercial buildings, and
establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his
agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the village. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the village. Said
applications shall be accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of such
connection, the premises to be served and the specification of such pipe to be
connected and the drain from house to sewer pipe. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd.
Ord. 91-8, 5-13-1991)
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: No permit and inspection fee shall be
charged for a single-family residential building sewer permit. A permit
application charge of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for multiple-family,
commercial and industrial building sewer permits shall be paid to the village
at the time the application is filed. (Ord. 91-8, 5-13-1991)
      4.   Conditions Of Permit Issuance:
         a.   No permit shall be issued unless it is found that there would be
compliance with the ordinances of the village by the making of such connection.
         b.   A building sewer permit shall only be issued and a sewer
connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream
sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear of the building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended
to the rear building and the whole can be considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Existing Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and testing by the
superintendent, to meet all requirements of this article. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-
1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Installation And Connection Requirements:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and regulations of
the village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society Of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual Of Practice No. 9", and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer
Main Construction In Illinois" shall apply.
      2.   Overhead plumbing is required on all sanitary sewer service
connections. Basement floor drains shall be connected to sump pumps and
discharged to the sanitary sewers. Garage floor drains shall be discharged to
the sanitary sewers. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
      3.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society Of Testing Materials, "Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual Of Practice No. 9", and "Standard
Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois". All such
connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved in writing by the
superintendent before installation.
      4.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the superintendent.
(Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
      5.   The most recent revision of the "Manual Of Procedures For The
Administration Of The Sewer Permit Ordinance", as adopted by the trustees of
the metropolitan water reclamation district of Greater Chicago on September 3,
1970, is hereby adopted as an integral part of the procedures of the
administration for sanitary sewer permits. In addition, the provisions of the
latest revision of the "Technical Policy Statement", as adopted by the Illinois
environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies, shall also
apply to all sanitary sewer construction within fifty feet (50') of a private
well and to all other sources of pollution as listed in table 1 of the
"Technical Policy Statement". However, in no case will the use of a polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) pipe of less strength than SDR 26 (schedule 40) be allowed for
use within public rights of way.
   E.   Discharges Into System:
      1.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
      2.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, and it shall be unlawful to
construct or permit the construction of any stormwater drain which discharges
water onto any sidewalk, pathway, public street or alley of the village. (Ord.
91-7, 3-11-1991)
   F.   Inspections:
      1.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
superintendent. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   All connections to a service line shall remain uncovered until an
inspection has been made by an authorized agent of the village. Request for
such inspection must be made twenty four (24) hours prior to the date when the
work will be ready for inspection.
   G.   Responsibility For Costs:
      1.   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify
the village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      2.   The owner of any premises in the village served by a connection with
the village sewer system shall install, maintain, repair and, when necessary,
replace the house sewer service line from the property line to the building it
serves, at his own expense. There shall be compliance with the provisions of
the ordinances relating to excavations in streets in making excavations in
streets or other public places for sewer connections. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
8-3D-4: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Use Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit
or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges To Natural Outlets; Treatment Required: It shall be unlawful
to discharge to any natural outlet any sewage or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of
this article.
   C.   Discharges Into System:
      1.   Stormwater And Surface Waters:
         a.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling waters, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
         b.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm
sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the superintendent. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the superintendent, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet. (Ord.
91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge, or cause to be
discharged, any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
         a.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
         c.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
         d.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
      3.   Restricted Discharges:
         a.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, the
following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears
likely, in the opinion of the superintendent, that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream; or otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the superintendent shall give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
            (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one
hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
            (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials;
or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per
liter (100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous
at temperatures between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees
Fahrenheit (150°F) (0 and 65°C).
            (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths (3/4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to
the review and approval of the superintendent.
            (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
            (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
or similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent for such materials.
            (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or
odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
            (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
            (8)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
            (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005
milligram per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the superintendent
in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations.
            (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.10 milligram per liter at any
time except as permitted by the superintendent in compliance with applicable
MWRDGC, state and federal regulations.
            (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
               (A) Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
               (B) Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
               (C) Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine
requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the
sewage treatment works;
               (D) Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs", as defined in section
8-3D-2 of this article.
            (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not
amendable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
The superintendent shall not issue a permit for any allowable discharge under
this subsection C3a without a prior permit having been issued by the MWRDGC for
said discharge. When a permit has been issued by the MWRDGC, the superintendent
may waive the fee and adopt the MWRDGC permit.
         b.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substance or possess
the characteristics enumerated in this subsection C3 or which are in violation
of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 402, June 26, 1978, and
any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the superintendent, may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the superintendent may:
            (1)   Reject the wastes;
            (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers;
            (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
or
            (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
         c.   If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the superintendent, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   D.   Interceptors: Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided
when, in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except, that
such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
superintendent, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   E.   Preliminary Treatment Or Flow Equalization: Where preliminary treatment
or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his
expense.
   F.   Control Manhole: Each industry shall be required to install a control
manhole, and when required by the superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole, together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances, in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense,
and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   Measurements, Tests And Analyses:
      1.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this article and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
      2.   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than
once per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state,
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expenses of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
      3.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this article shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of IEPA division of
laboratories manual of laboratory methods, and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb, and property. The particular analysis involved will determine
whether a twenty four (24) hour composite sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
   H.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the
village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to
payment therefor, in accordance with section
8-3D-7 of this article by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in
accordance with MWRDGC, federal and state guidelines for the user charge
system. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
8-3D-5: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No person shall break, damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the sewage works without a
permit. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
8-3D-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   1. The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
village, the Illinois environmental protection agency, the metropolitan water
reclamation district of Greater Chicago (MWRDGC), and the U.S. environmental
protection agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
article, and not in violation of any constitutional provision. The
superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
      2.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in subsection A1 of this section, the superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the village, the Illinois environmental protection agency, the
metropolitan water reclamation district of Greater Chicago (MWRDGC), and the
U.S. environmental protection agency shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the village employees, and the village shall
indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain conditions.
   B.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016
Code)
8-3D-7: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Basis Of Charge: The wastewater service charge shall be based on water
usage as recorded by water meters.
   B.   Measurement Of Flow:
      1.   The volume of flow used for computing wastewater service charges
shall be metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of one
hundred (100) gallons. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
      2.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the superintendent for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained
from those other sources.
      3.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the superintendent if the volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
      4.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person discharging wastes into the
public sewers. Following approval and installation, such meters may not be
removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of the superintendent.
(Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Components Of Charge; Computation And Review; Appeals:
      1.   Components Of Charge; Computation: The wastewater service charge
shall be levied to pay for the cost of operating, maintaining, repairing,
replacing, and constructing additions to the sanitary sewer system. It shall be
comprised of two (2) elements: an operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R)
charge and a debt service charge, which, together, shall equal the wastewater
service charge. The OM&R charge shall be determined by dividing the total cost
for operating, maintaining and replacing the sanitary sewer system by the total
gallons billed in a year, and the debt service charge shall be determined by
dividing the total annual debt service by the total gallons billed in a year.
The sum of those two (2) calculations shall equal the wastewater service charge
which may be rounded off to a rate per one thousand (1,000) gallons after
taking into consideration minimum charges, late payment, discounts, and
nonpayment.
      2.   Review Of Charge: At least thirty (30) days before the beginning of
each fiscal year, the adequacy of the wastewater charges shall be reviewed and
the charges revised accordingly by ordinance. After the beginning of each
fiscal year, each user, in conjunction with a regular bill for services, shall
be notified of the rate for the wastewater service charge. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-
1991)
      3.   Appeals: The method for computation of rates and service charges
established for wastewater user charges in this article shall be made available
to a user within twenty (20) days of receipt of a written request therefor. Any
disagreement over the method used or in the computation thereof shall, if
justified, be remedied by appeal to the superintendent within twenty (20) days
after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies.
(Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Charges Established:
      1.   For all residential, commercial, industrial, and institutional/
government users, there shall be and there is hereby established a charge equal
to thirty six cents ($0.36) bimonthly per one thousand (1,000) gallons of water
used on the premises, but in no case shall the charge be less than one dollar
forty four cents ($1.44) bimonthly for use of and for services supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the village. The rate of thirty six cents ($0.36)
consists of twenty four cents ($0.24) for capital improvement and debt service
charge and twelve cents ($0.12) for OM&R. (Ord. 09-13, 12-14-2009)
      2.   The charges set forth in this article are village charges and are in
addition to any charges made by the MWRDGC under its user charge ordinance or
any other governmental agency.
      3.   The wastewater user charges in this section shall be effective for
all bills issued hereinafter.
   E.   Bills For Service; Liability; Delinquencies:
      1.   Bimonthly Payments; Liability For Service: The rates or charges for
service shall be payable bimonthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to
pay for the service to such premises, and the service is furnished to the
premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises,
occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable therefor to
the village.
      2.   Rendition Of Bill: Charges for sewer service shall be added to the
bill for water service and shall be sent out at the same time water bills are
sent and subject to the same late charge and penalties for late payment of
water bills. Charges for sewer service to new buildings shall commence on the
date when the building is occupied. In the event of a change in the ownership
of the premises receiving sewer service, the village shall promptly be notified
in writing of such change. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
      3.   Discontinuance Of Service: If the charges for such services are not
paid within sixty (60) days of the due date, such services shall be
discontinued after notice and hearing and shall not be reinstated until all
claims are settled. Hearings shall be conducted under the same format provided
for water delinquencies.
      4.   Lien Provisions:
         a.   Lien Claim: Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for
sixty (60) days after due date, the village may file with the county recorder
of deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises serviced, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a
notice that the village claims a lien for that amount as well as for all
charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill. If the user whose bill is
unpaid is not the owner of the premises and the village has notice of this,
notice shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his address be known.
The failure of the village to record such lien or to mail such notice or
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose unpaid bills as stated in subsection E4b of this section.
         b.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale
shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in the name of
the village. The village attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid sixty (60) days after the due date.
   F.   Revenues: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the
sewerage system shall be deposited in the water and sewer fund. All such
revenues and monies shall be held by the village comptroller separate and apart
from his private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the
village, and all of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be
delivered to the village comptroller not more than ten (10) days after receipt
of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be
directed by the president and board of trustees. The village comptroller shall
receive all such revenues from the sewage system and all other funds and monies
incident to the operation of such system as the same may be delivered to him
and deposit the same in the account of the fund designated as the "water and
sewer fund".
   G.   Accounting And Reporting: The village comptroller shall establish a
proper system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in
which complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative
to the sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals, he shall cause to be
made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the
receipts and disbursements of the sewerage system. In addition to the above,
the annual audit report shall include the following: (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991;
amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      2.   Number of users connected to the system.
      3.   Number of nonmetered users.
      4.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
   H.   Access To Records: The IEPA and its authorized representative shall
have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the village which
are applicable to the village system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereto to ensure compliance with the terms of any federal grant
or state grant. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
8-3D-8: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violation of any provision of this article shall be and are
established as follows:
   A.   Unless a separate fine or penalty is specifically provided in this
article, any person, firm or corporation who violates, neglects or refuses to
comply with, or who resists or opposes the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this article shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and every such
person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
every day on which such violation, neglect or refusal shall continue, and any
builder or contractor who shall construct any building in violation of any of
the provisions of this article, and any architect designing, drawing plans for
or having charge of such building or who shall permit it to be constructed
shall be liable to the penalties provided and imposed by this section. (Ord.
91-7, 3-11-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   In addition to the penalty provided by subsection A of this section,
the village may file suit and proceed to demolish, repair, enclose, recover
cost or sue for an injunction to cause compliance as provided in article 11,
divisions 31 and 31.1 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 91-7, 3-11-1991)
TITLE 9
BUILDING CODE
CHAPTER 1
ENACTMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Name Of Title
9-1-2: Purpose Of Title
9-1-3: Nature Of Title
9-1-4: Application Of Title
9-1-5: Provisions And Requirements Of Title
9-1-1: NAME OF TITLE:
The name of this title shall be BUILDING CODE. It may be cited as such for all
purposes, without reference to the respective chapters. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-1-2: PURPOSE OF TITLE:
The purpose of this title is to establish rules and regulations for
constructing, erecting, enlarging, remodeling, altering, repairing, raising,
lowering, underpinning, moving or wrecking, change of use as defined in the
Building Code, of buildings, structures, or portions thereof. The title serves
to regulate the location, equipment, use and occupancy thereof, in order to
promote public health and safety and to do substantial justice. (Ord. 19-05, 6-
4-2019)
9-1-3: NATURE OF TITLE:
This title is intended to be remedial and to be construed liberally and justly
to secure the beneficial aim and purpose thereof. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-1-4: APPLICATION OF TITLE:
This title shall apply to all buildings, structures, or portions thereof in the
said Village of Hodgkins, Federal and State buildings, and possessions being
excepted. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-1-5: PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF TITLE:
The following chapters and their several sections contain and shall constitute
the provisions and requirements of the Building Code. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND SUPERVISION
SECTION:
9-2-1: Building Official
9-2-2: Duties Of Building Official
9-2-3: Short Title For Building Official
9-2-4: Building Official And Inspectors May Enter Premises
9-2-5: Personal Liability Of Building Official And Inspectors
9-2-6: Public Improvement Required Prior To Permit
9-2-7: Building Permit Required
9-2-8: Work Exempt From Building Permits
9-2-9: Duration Of Building Permits
9-2-10: Extension Of Building Permits
9-2-11: Issuance Of Permits
9-2-12: Application For Permits
9-2-13: Landscaping Plans
9-2-14: Plans And Specifications To Be Filed In Duplicate
9-2-15: Plans And Specifications - Essential Requirements
9-2-16: Certification Of Compliance With This Title
9-2-17: Alterations Upon Stamped Plans Not Permitted
9-2-18: Permit, Plans, And Specifications Must Be Kept On The Job
9-2-19: Plans And Specifications To Remain On File
9-2-20: Permit Sign
9-2-21: Fee For Building Permits
9-2-22: Deviation From Plans - Power To Stop Work
9-2-23: Revocation Of Permit
9-2-24: Inspection
9-2-25: Foundation Location And Elevation Spot Survey
9-2-26: Engineering Fees
9-2-27: Certificate Of Occupancy - Single-Family Residential
9-2-28: Certificate Of Occupancy - Other Than Single-Family Residential
9-2-29: Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy - Other Than Single- Family
Residential
9-2-1: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
There is hereby created and established the office of building official. The
official shall be appointed by the President by and with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees in the same manner and for the same term as other
Village officials are appointed. The official shall receive such compensation
as the President and Board of Trustees shall from time to time approve. The
official may be removed from office at any time either: a) by the President
with the consent of the Board of Trustees, or b) by the affirmative vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of the Board of Trustees in favor of such removal. (Ord. 19-
05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-2: DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The duties of the building official shall be: a) to have general charge and
supervision of the erection, construction, alteration, repair, removal, and
inspection of all buildings, walls, structures, or portions thereof, and
accessories thereto within the Village and to enforce all ordinances relating
thereto; b) the building official shall examine and approve/disapprove all
plans for building permit purposes. The official shall have charge of building
inspections on all buildings, structures, or portions thereof in connection
with work that has been authorized by a permit; c) the building official shall
perform such further duties as this title requires. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-3: SHORT TITLE FOR BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The title or phrase "building official" when used in this title shall mean and
include the building official as fully and effectively as if each and all of
said officials were specifically designated and named in lieu of the title or
phrase. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-4: BUILDING OFFICIAL AND INSPECTORS MAY ENTER PREMISES:
Building officials are hereby empowered to lawfully enter upon any premises or
into any building or structure or portion thereof (upon showing their badge of
office or other identification) when necessary to do so in the performance of
any duty imposed upon them by this title. It is hereby made unlawful for any
person or persons to hinder or prevent or to attempt to hinder or prevent
building official from so doing.
Any person or persons hindering or attempting to hinder, resisting or
attempting to resist any building official in the performance of duty shall be
charged with resisting an official. The person or persons convicted of such
offense shall be subject to the general penalty provided for violations of this
title. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-5: PERSONAL LIABILITY OF BUILDING OFFICIAL AND INSPECTORS:
In all cases where any action is taken by the building official, or any
official of the said Village, to enforce the provisions of any of the sections
in this title, or to enforce the provisions of any of the laws of said Village
(whether such action is taken in pursuance of the express provisions of such
sections or laws, or in a case where discretionary power is given by this
title, or said laws), such acts shall be done in the name of, and on behalf of,
the said Village of Hodgkins and the said official, in so acting for said
Village, do not thereby render themselves liable personally, and they are
hereby relieved from all personal liability, for any damage that may accrue to
persons or property as a result of such act committed or permitted (in good
faith) in the discharge of their duty, and any suit brought against the said
official by reason thereby shall be defended by the Law Department of the said
Village until final termination of the proceedings therein. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-
2019)
9-2-6: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT REQUIRED PRIOR TO PERMIT:
All building permits shall carry with them the condition that no occupancy of
the building subject to the permit will be permitted until such time as all
land improvements required under the Subdivision Ordinance of this Village, as
amended, have been substantially completed as required by said Subdivision
Ordinance.
If the property for which a permit is being sought is not subject to the
Subdivision Ordinance of this Village, the building permit shall carry with it
a condition that no occupancy of the building subject to the permit will be
permitted until such time as the water main, public sewer, and any other
required land improvement has been completed as required by the ordinances of
the Village and as approved by the Village Engineer.
All building permits issued prior to completion of said land improvements shall
include a statement signed by the owners of the property involved or an
authorized representative of the owner as follows:
"As owners of the property described in the building permit, the undersigned
hereby acknowledge and accept the condition that no occupancy of the building
to be constructed thereon will be permitted, no Certificate of Occupancy
issued, until such time as all land improvements required under the Subdivision
Ordinance of this Village, as amended, and/or any other Ordinances of the
Village of Hodgkins have been installed, except street and alley improvements
as therein required may be in the process of installation, provided that
roadway pavement base course has been installed and is suitable for vehicular
traffic."
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-7: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to commence
or to perform or engage in any work in connection with the construction,
erection, enlargement, remodeling, altering, repairing, raising, lowering,
underpinning, change of use, moving or wrecking of any building, structure, or
portion thereof without having first made application to and secured the
necessary permit therefor. Any person, firm, or corporation so doing shall be
subject to the general penalty for violation of this title. The building permit
shall carry with it the right to install any crane, derrick, material elevator,
heating or lighting apparatus, inside the lot line which may be required for
temporary use during the progress of the work.
There is miscellaneous type work such as concrete patios, landscaping without
grade changes, and repairs (see section
 9-2-8 of this chapter) which will not require a building permit. The building
official shall inspect any such projects and make the final decision as to the
applicability of this section, prior to the start of any work. It is the
obligation of the property owner or their agent to consult with the building
official to determine the application of this section, prior to the start of
any work. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-8: WORK EXEMPT FROM BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   A permit shall not be required for ordinary repair work incidental to
the upkeep of a building or structure, provided there is not contemplated or
involved any change in the classification or any increase in the fire hazard
thereof. The building official shall make the final determination as to the
meaning of "ordinary repair work". Nothing in this section contained shall be
interpreted or construed to allow any work included in the permit exemption
thereof to be done in any manner contrary to the requirements of this title and
other laws or ordinances. Violations of this title in any work not required to
be done under a permit shall be subject to the general penalty of this title.
   B.   Sidewalks and driveways.
   C.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, counter tops, and
similar finish work.
   D.   Prefabricated swimming pools which are less than twenty four inches
(24") deep and do not exceed five thousand (5,000) gallons and are installed
entirely above ground.
   E.   Swings and other playground equipment.
   F.   Window awnings supported by an exterior wall which do not project more
than fifty four inches (54") from the exterior wall and do not require
additional support.
   G.   Window and door replacement with same width which does not involve
structural beam or load bearing support. All windows and doors shall meet the
State Energy Code for U-factor and air leakage.
   H.   Patio awnings which do not exceed two hundred forty (240) square feet
and are not enclosed more than fifty percent (50%) on each side. (Ord. 19-05,
6-4-2019)
9-2-9: DURATION OF BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Duration:
      1.   All building permit fees shall be paid prior to the issuance of any
permits.
      2.   Any building permit approved pursuant to this title under which the
building permit fee has not been paid in full within three (3) months from the
date of approval, shall expire automatically by date of approval of the
building official; and the fees paid therefor, if any, shall be forfeited to
the Village.
      3.   Any building permit issued pursuant to this title under which no
substantial progress shall have been made within six (6) months from the date
of issuance thereof shall expire automatically by limitation and may not be
extended or renewed without the written approval of the building official; and
unless such permit is surrendered to the Village Clerk within two (2) months
after its expiration for such cause, the fees paid therefor shall be forfeited
to the Village. However, under any circumstances the plan exam fee will not be
returned.
      4.   Any building permit issued hereunder shall expire automatically upon
cessation of work for more than two (2) months. A cessation of work shall be
deemed to have occurred in any case where for any such period no substantial
progress has been made in the work for which a permit has been issued and all
fees paid shall be forfeited to the Village.
      5.   A building project shall be considered abandoned if no significant
progress has been made for a period of six (6) months or more. A building,
structure, or part thereof so abandoned shall be declared a public nuisance by
the building official and the Board of Trustees and shall be dealt with
accordingly.
      6.   Substantial progress for purposes of this title shall be defined as
the amount of work a journey tradesperson can perform in one week.
      7.   A building permit for a single-family residence, single-family
residential room addition, or a building or structure accessory to a single-
family residence shall expire automatically if all exterior work is not
completed within one year from the date of the first scheduled footing
inspection as per subsection
9-2-24A1b of this chapter or within one year from the issuance of a permit if
there is no footing inspection. Exterior work shall include, but not be limited
to the following:
         a.   The exterior facade, including but not limited to doors, windows,
and siding, the roof of the building, paving of driveway(s), final grading, and
required landscaping.
         b.   Removal from the exterior of the property of all construction
fencing and unneeded appurtenances including building materials, construction
trailers and equipment, and construction fencing. Dumpsters and portable
sanitation facilities may remain on the site as may be needed but shall be
moved to a hard-surfaced area or inside a garage whenever possible.
      8.   A building permit that has or will expire as per this section, may
be extended as follows:
         a.   Completion of landscaping and driveways may be extended without
further action when the deadline for completion falls between October 16 and
March 31 as per section
9-2-28 of this chapter.
         b.   The building official may grant up to four (4) 90-day extensions
upon written request or emailed, by the permit applicant and payment of an
extension fee as per subsection A8c of this section.
         c.   For each extension granted as per section
9-2-10 of this chapter, an extension fee shall be paid as follows:
 
                        Work Remaining                             Fee1
First 90-day extension  Site improvements, only2                   5%
First 90-day extension  Building with or without site improvements 10%
Second 90-day extension Site improvements, only2                   5%
Second 90-day extension Building with or without site improvements 10%
Third 90-day extension  Site improvements or building              10%
Fourth 90-day extension Site improvements or building              10%
 
   Notes:
      1.    Percent of building permit fee.
      2.    Site improvements include walks, drives grading, ground cover, and
removal of silt fencing, dumpsters, and other outside construction
appurtenances.
 
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-10: EXTENSION OF BUILDING PERMITS:
Upon payment of ten percent (10%) of the original building permit fee, building
permits for buildings or structures upon which work has been commenced may be
once extended for a period not exceeding six (6) months. Provided said
extension is requested within six (6) months after expiration and that the work
complies with the Building Codes in effect at the time of the extension.
Permits for which work has not begun also may be extended once for up to six
(6) months upon payment of ten percent (10%) of the original building permit
fee and subject to compliance with Building Codes in effect at the time of such
extension. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-11: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
Permits authorized to be issued and required to be obtained under this title
shall be issued by the Office of the Village Clerk when the application
therefor and the plans submitted therewith shall have been approved by the
building official and all fees have been paid. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-12: APPLICATION FOR PERMITS:
When any person, firm, or corporation shall be desirous of constructing,
erecting, enlarging, remodeling, altering, repairing, raising, lowering,
underpinning, moving, changing the use as defined by the Building Code, or
wrecking any building, structure, or portion thereof, the Village shall make a
written application or emailed if available therefor upon the blank forms
furnished for such purpose. This application shall be filed with the building
official and shall set forth the following:
   A.   The name, telephone number, fax number, and address of the applicant.
   B.   The name, telephone number, fax number, and address of the architect,
structural engineer, or other licensed design professional permitted by the
laws of the State to make plans who has prepared the plans and specifications
accompanying the application.
   C.   The name, telephone number, fax number, and address of the owner of the
real estate upon which the proposed work is to be performed.
   D.   The name, telephone number, fax number, and addresses of the general
contractor.
   E.   The location of the proposed work, that is, the street address assigned
by the Village, the subdivision, lot number, and township of the subject
property.
   F.   The type of work the applicant is seeking permission for.
   G.   The permanent index number of the real estate upon which the proposed
work is to be performed.
   H.   The application shall be accompanied by duplicate plans,
specifications, and plats as specified in section
9-2-14 of this chapter, drawn to scale, of the lot or lots composing the site,
showing the exact location of the proposed building and any buildings and also
septic systems and wells already located on the lot or lots involved. The
application shall also be accompanied by plans and specifications signed and
sealed in the manner hereinafter required by section
9-2-16 of this chapter, and by an exact legal description of the property
involved.
   I.   An agreement signed by the owner, his duly authorized agent, architect,
or structural engineer that he will, if granted the permit applied for,
construct the work in accordance with the description set forth in the
applications and plans and specifications accompanying such applications; and
that the general and detailed work connected with such construction, erection,
enlargement, remodeling, altering, repairing, raising, lowering, underpinning,
moving, changing of use as defined by the Building Code, or wrecking or any
such building structure or portion thereof, as the case may be, shall be done
in strict compliance with this title and the provisions of the permit.
   J.   The purpose of this regulation is to protect existing property, to
enhance the general appearance of the community, to protect the individual from
making construction errors, and to aid in general drainage of all properties in
the area.
      1.   Grade Line: The grade line noted on the architectural elevation
drawings shall be a line where the ground line intersects the foundation.
      2.   Approval By Village Engineer: The grade line is at a point, which is
established by the Village Engineer or building official.
   K.   The permit application can be emailed to the building official. (Ord.
19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-13: LANDSCAPING PLANS:
For any building to be constructed in a Business District, Transitional
District, Office District, or Manufacturing District, the application for
permit shall be accompanied by duplicate sets of detailed landscaping plans to
indicate conformance with the requirements of any approved site plan and the
requirements of the Hodgkins Zoning Ordinance, as amended, pertaining to the
landscaping of all required yards or other required open spaces and to buffer
landscaping. Landscaping plans shall indicate location, number, size, and
species of all proposed landscaping materials. The Village must approve
landscaping plans.
Once installed, approved landscaping shall be maintained in such manner as to
retain at a minimum the intended standards of the initial landscaping plan and
to conform to the landscaping requirements of the Village. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-
2019)
9-2-14: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS TO BE FILED IN DUPLICATE:
The number of drawings to be submitted for residential shall be four (4) sets,
maximum size of 24" x 36". The number of drawings to be submitted for
industrial, commercial, and multi-family shall be four (4) sets, maximum size
of 30" x 48". Each set of drawings shall consist of a site plan showing
dimensions to all property lines, foundation and footing plan, basement or
cellar plan, the plans of all floors and roofs, transverse and longitudinal
sections necessary to show all details to verify building, zoning, and floor
area ratio requirements, elevations, and the necessary framing plans to show
the complete framing of the building or structure. Such other plans shall be
filed as may be required in the opinion of the building official to illustrate
the features of construction and equipment of the building structure referred
to. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-15: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS - ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS:
All plans and drawings shall be drawn to a legible scale. All distances and
dimensions shall be accurately figured and drawings made explicit and complete
showing the front and side lot lines and the entire sewage and drain pipes and
the location of all plumbing fixtures within such building. The dimensions of
the structural members shall be given on the drawings whether shown in the
specifications or not. The specifications shall describe all the materials to
be used in the proposed building. The building official shall approve each set
of plans presented before a permit will be granted. A final as built set of
plans shall be submitted as a PDF. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-16: CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE:
It shall be unlawful for any architect, structural engineer, or any other
licensed design professional to prepare or submit to the building official for
his approval any final plans for any building or structure which do not comply
with all of the provisions of this title and all other applicable laws and
ordinances specifically including but not limited to the Hodgkins Zoning
Ordinance. Any plans submitted under this title shall bear the signature and
seal of the architect, structural engineer, or other licensed design
professional who prepared the plans and specifications. A seal will not be
required where this building official determines the work to be non-structural
or minor in nature.
Every licensed architect or structural engineer shall have a reproducible seal,
or facsimile, the print of which shall contain the name of the architect or
structural engineer, the license number, and the words "Licensed Architect", or
"Structural Engineer", "State of Illinois". The licensed architect or
structural engineer shall affix the signature, current date, date of license
expiration, and seal to the first sheet of any bound set or loose sheets of
technical submissions utilized as contract documents between the parties to the
contract or prepared for the review and approval of any governmental or public
authority having jurisdiction by that licensed architect or structural engineer
or under that licensed architect's or structural engineer's responsible
control. The sheet of technical submissions in which the seal is affixed shall
indicate those documents or parts thereof for which the seal shall apply. The
seal and dates may be electronically affixed. The signature must be in the
original handwriting of the licensee or electronically signed and sealed per
the Illinois Design Practice Act. All technical submissions issued by any
corporation, partnership, professional service corporation, or professional
design firm as registered under this Act shall contain the corporate or assumed
business name and design firm registration number, in addition to any other
seal requirements as set forth by the Illinois Department of Professional
Regulation.
Anyone falsely making any such certification shall be subject to the penalty
provided in section
9-5-1 of this title and to such further penalties as may be provided or allowed
by law. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-17: ALTERATIONS UPON STAMPED PLANS NOT PERMITTED:
It shall be unlawful to erase, alter, or modify any lines, figures, or coloring
contained upon such drawings so stamped by the building official or filed with
him for reference. If, during the progress of the work authorized, it is
desired to deviate in any manner affecting the construction or other essentials
of the building from the terms of the application or drawings, notice of such
intention to later on deviate shall be given to the building official, and
written consent of the building official shall first be obtained before such
alteration or deviation may be made. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-18: PERMIT, PLANS, AND SPECIFICATIONS MUST BE KEPT ON THE JOB:
The permit issued for any work to which this title is applicable, together with
a set of the approved plans and specifications, if any, must be kept on the job
while the work is in progress, and must be shown for inspection on request of
any building official. Inability or refusal to comply with the provisions of
this section shall constitute sufficient cause for stopping either all or such
portion of the work as may be involved in the violation. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-19: PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS TO REMAIN ON FILE:
One or more copies, as may be required by the building official, of the plans
and specifications as finally stamped and approved shall be left on file in the
office of said official. Complete plans and specifications of buildings of a
public character for which permits are granted shall remain on file permanently
in the Municipality official's office. It shall not be obligatory upon said
official to retain plans and specifications for buildings or structures except
those of a public character for more than six (6) months after the completion
or occupation of any such building or structure. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-20: PERMIT SIGN:
All job sites on which exterior construction work is being conducted, such as
new residential or non-residential buildings or building additions, shall
maintain a Code of Conduct and permit sign to be provided by the building
official and in a location designated by the building official. Said sign shall
comply with the following:
   A.   Visibility of the sign shall be maintained at all times. At no time
shall materials, dumpsters, equipment, vehicles, or other appurtenances be
placed so as to block the view of the sign from the public way.
   B.   If the sign becomes lost or damaged at any time, the permit applicant
shall immediately contact the building official and request a replacement sign.
The original fee for the sign shall be kept by the Village, and a new sign fee
paid by the permit applicant. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-21: FEE FOR BUILDING PERMITS:
All work subject to a building permit as defined in section
9-2-7 of this chapter shall be subject to the following building permit fee:
 
Value1                                   Fee
Up to $100,000.00 in value               2% of construction value
$100,000.00 to $2,000,000.00 in value    11/2 % of construction value
$2,000,000.00 to $10,000,000.00 in value 11/4 % of construction value
Over $10,000,000.00 in value             1% of construction value
 
Except one and two family dwellings - No fee will be required.
Note:
   1.    The construction value will be determined by any nationally recognized
construction cost valuation methods.
      A.   If an additional inspection is required, the fee will be fifty
dollars ($50.00) per discipline. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-22: DEVIATION FROM PLANS - POWER TO STOP WORK:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, agent, or architect or for any
contractor or builder engaged in constructing, erecting, enlarging, remodeling,
altering, repairing, raising, lowering, underpinning, moving, or wrecking of
any building, structure, or portion thereof, to make any departure from the
plans as approved by the building official without first obtaining the written
consent of the building official for any such change.
Any departure from the approved plans involving a violation of the requirements
of any law or ordinance or any such change in the plans or construction without
the consent of the Village Board shall operate to annul the permit which has
been issued for such work and shall render the same void, and all fees paid
shall be forfeited.
   B.   In any case where work is done under a permit authorizing the erection,
alteration, or repair of a building or structure, which work is contrary to the
approved plans, or any law or ordinance, the building official shall have power
to at once stop such work and to order all persons engaged therein to stop and
desist therefrom. Such work shall not be resumed until satisfactory assurance
has been given to the building official that it will be done properly and
lawfully and according to the approved plans or until said building official
has consented, in writing, to the changes made in such approved plans. The
building official may request that a new permit must be issued before work
proceeds. The usual fee for the permit shall be paid by the contractor doing
such work prior to the start of any work.
   C.   No contractor or builder shall begin any work on any building or
structure for which a permit is required until such permit shall have been
issued. In case any work is begun on the erection, alteration, repair, or
removal of any building or structure without a permit authorizing the same
being issued therefor, the building official shall have power to at once stop
work and to order any and all persons engaged therein to stop and desist
therefrom until the proper permit is issued. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-23: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
If the work in, upon, or about any building or structure shall be conducted in
violation of any law or ordinance, it shall be the duty of the building
official to revoke the permit for the building or wrecking operations in
connection with which such violation shall have taken place. It shall be
unlawful, after the revocation of such permit, to proceed with such building or
wrecking operations unless such permit shall first have been reinstated or
reissued by the building official. Before a permit so revoked may be lawfully
reissued, the entire building and building site shall first be put into
condition corresponding with the requirements of all laws and ordinances, and
any work or material applied to the same in violation of any of the provisions
of any law or ordinance shall first be removed from such building and for such
permit as reissued the fee required shall be paid. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-24: INSPECTION:
   A.   The permit applicant, owner, or contractor shall give 24-hours advance
notice to the building official to request each of the following required
inspections:
      1.   Single-Family Residential Inspections:
         a.   Site Preparation: An inspection to ensure the adequate provision
of all required soil erosion control and tree protection prior to grading,
footing excavation, or any other work on the property.
         b.   Footing Excavation: An inspection is required before concrete is
poured and after excavation and forming have been completed.
         c.   Foundation Forms: An inspection is required after the foundation
wall forms are set and before concrete is poured. It is required that two (2)
copies of a spot survey be submitted for review and approval after the
foundation form inspection has been passed, but before the foundation wall
inspection can be scheduled.
         d.   Foundation Wall: An inspection is required before back filling
and after footing drain tile has been placed and damp proofing completed.
         e.   Tree Protection, Erosion Control, And Gravel Access Drive: An
inspection is required to ensure that all erosion control and tree protection
measures are properly maintained and in place and temporary construction
(gravel) access is in place prior to any other work on the property and prior
to decking and rough framing. The street shall be cleaned of mud.
         f.   Driveway: After placing of forms or otherwise establishing the
border of a driveway and prior to installation of asphalt, concrete pavers, or
other hard-surface material, the Building Department will inspect to ensure
that the driveway complies with the approved site plan, maximum and minimum
width requirements, and setback requirements. Placement of driveway forms and
the driveway inspection can be conducted at any time during the construction
process.
         g.   Electric Service: An inspection is required after electric panel,
meter enclosure, and temporary grounds have been installed.
         h.   Underground Plumbing: An inspection is required before concrete
is poured in a basement or floor slab and after underground plumbing work has
been completed.
         i.   Rough Framing: An inspection is required before any insulation
and vapor barrier are installed and after the rough framing, rough plumbing,
and rough electrical work are completed.
         j.   Fireplace Inspection: An inspection is required for all masonry
and pre-fab fireplaces. This inspection shall be scheduled at the same time as
the rough framing inspection.
         k.   Rough Plumbing: An inspection is required before any insulation
and vapor barrier are installed and after the rough plumbing work is complete.
         l.   Rough Electric: An inspection is required before any insulation
is installed and after the rough electrical work is complete.
         m.   Insulation: An inspection is required before any interior wall
finish is applied and after the insulation is installed.
         n.   Final: Final inspection is required before issuance of a Building
Certificate of Occupancy for a structure. A final inspection must be scheduled
a minimum of two (2) days before the certificate of occupancy will be issued.
The final inspection shall ensure that the building and site comply with all
Village codes and regulations including but not limited to the Building Codes,
Zoning Ordinance, and engineering requirements. The final inspection shall
include inspections for the following: building, mechanical, electrical,
plumbing, site engineering, landscaping, forestry, and fire protection. The
Pleasantview Fire Protection District shall approve all fire protection
systems.
         o.   Other: Demolition and swimming pool - refer to sections
9-3-6 and
9-7-1 of this title.
         p.   Bond Release: An inspection is required prior to the release of
any outstanding bonds to ensure compliance with all required local codes,
ordinances, and standards including landscaping improvement.
      2.   All Inspections Other Than Single-Family: All new construction other
than single-family residences shall be inspected to verify compliance with all
Building Codes, Fire Codes, Zoning Ordinance, Mechanical Codes, Electrical
Codes, Plumbing Codes, Engineering Codes, and all mandated State Codes.
      3.   General Inspection Requirements:
         a.   All additional inspections required, as a result of builder
error, shall be performed at an additional prepaid fee per inspection per
subsection
9-2-21A of this chapter.
         b.   Proper and safe ladders for access to basements and attic are the
responsibility of the contractors. There will be no inspections performed if
adequate ladders are not provided.
         c.   All materials required for testing are the responsibility of the
contractor. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-25: FOUNDATION LOCATION AND ELEVATION SPOT SURVEY:
Immediately after the foundation has been poured and prior to scheduling a
backfill inspection, the owner or contractor shall submit to the building
official three (3) copies of an on-site (spot survey) location of the structure
showing the top of foundation elevation. The survey shall be reviewed by the
Village Engineer. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-26: ENGINEERING FEES:
Changes to grading, drainage, top of foundation elevation, etc., approved by
the Village, that would require engineering services, shall be approved by the
Village Engineer. Costs for such services shall be paid by permittee at the
fees in effect. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-27: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY - SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
The request for a "Certificate of Occupancy" shall be made at least two (2)
business days before occupancy is requested. This will allow for time for a
final inspection and to process all paperwork. Minimum requirements for
occupancy shall be as follows:
   A.   Connection to public water and sewer complete or, in the alternative,
well and septic systems complete. In the case of connection to the Village of
Hodgkins' public water supply, connection shall not be considered complete
until both the water meter and remote meter are installed.
   B.   All plumbing shall be shown on the approved plans unless otherwise
approved by the building official. All fixtures added or installed after this
inspection will require a separate permit.
   C.   Electrical wiring shall be completed in compliance with applicable
codes.
   D.   Heating system shall be completed in compliance with applicable codes.
   E.   Basement floor, drain tile, and sump pump (if used) shall be installed
in compliance with applicable codes.
   F.   Any concrete floors in the habitable area of the house must be poured.
   G.   Further, no Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued until final
grading, all required landscaping, and driveway hard- surfacing have been
installed.
However, if weather or other conditions do not permit the completion of final
grading, required landscaping, or driveway hard-surfacing, the owner may
request issuance of a conditional Certificate of Occupancy subject to
completion of the outstanding work.
If a Certificate of Occupancy under these terms is issued between April 15 and
October 15, the final grading, landscaping, and hard-surfacing shall be
completed within forty five (45) days. If a conditional Certificate of
Occupancy under these terms is issued between October 16 and March 31 of each
year, the final grading, landscaping, and hard-surfacing shall be completed
prior to the forthcoming May 15.
   H.   No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued until all construction
recapture costs and all sewer and water connection fees required by Village
ordinances have been paid. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-28: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY - OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
The request for a "Certificate of Occupancy" for any portion of the building
shall be made at least two (2) business days before occupancy is requested.
This will allow for time for a final inspection and to process all paperwork.
Minimum requirements for occupancy shall be as follows: Minimum requirements
for occupancy shall be those set forth in detail in the building regulations
adopted by reference in section
9-7-1 of this title and the following:
   A.   The structure shall be substantially complete, the exterior enclosure
shall be complete, and the structure shall comply with all general, special,
and structural requirements of the code.
   B.   All means of egress and all fire protection features shall be in place
and continually maintained and approved by the Pleasantview Fire Protection
District.
   C.   Sanitary and water facilities shall be complete. Water facilities shall
not be considered complete until both the water and remote meter are installed
and connected.
   D.   Heating system shall be complete in compliance with applicable codes.
   E.   Electrical system shall be complete in compliance with applicable
codes.
   F.   No Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued until all construction
recapture costs and all sewer and water connection fees required by Village
ordinances have been paid.
   G.   Further, no Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued until all
landscaping required and indicated on the approved landscaping plans has been
installed. However, if weather conditions do not permit the completion of
required landscaping, the owner may request Village approval of a cash deposit
to guarantee completion of landscaping as soon as weather permits. Such request
shall be accompanied by an estimate of cost to complete all required
landscaping. Upon Village approval of the request for a cash deposit and the
cost estimate, cash deposit equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of
the cost of all required landscaping shall be deposited with the Village in
escrow. If a Certificate of Occupancy under these terms is issued between April
15 and October 15, the final grading, landscaping, and hard-surfacing shall be
completed within forty five (45) days. If a conditional Certificate of
Occupancy under these terms is issued between October 16 and March 31 of each
year, the final grading, landscaping, and hard-surfacing shall be completed
prior to the forthcoming May 15.
   H.   In addition, the owner shall be required to execute such agreements as
may from time to time be required by the Village to delineate the conditional
status of the Certificate of Occupancy, including, but not limited to, notice
to be given to any subsequent purchasers. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-2-29: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY - OTHER THAN SINGLE- FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL:
A temporary Certificate of Occupancy can be issued when a building owner,
tenant, or agent wants to occupy the building for purposes of stocking,
preparing the space for all occupants, training of new employees, or similar
circumstances subject to the following terms:
   A.   The building shall be substantially complete.
   B.   All means of egress shall be completed and unobstructed.
   C.   All fire protection, alarm, and detection systems shall be approved by
the Pleasantview Fire Protection District and able to transmit an alarm.
   D.   All hazards to occupants shall be removed.
   E.   Full occupancy for all future occupants shall not take place until all
code related items are in compliance.
   F.   An inspection is completed by the building inspector with a list of
outstanding items.
   G.   The temporary occupancy fee is paid.
   H.   The maximum length of a temporary occupancy is thirty (30) days.
   I.   A request for a temporary occupancy shall be in writing. The person
requesting the temporary occupancy shall provide a description of the type of
work being performed, indicate the number of occupants, and state that the
building or space will not be open to the general public. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-
2019)
CHAPTER 3
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Occupancy Of Street
9-3-2: Driveways
9-3-3: Right To Complete Buildings Under Outstanding Permits
9-3-4: Building Changed Or Repaired Must Comply With This Title
9-3-5: Construction Materials And Methods
9-3-6: Moving Or Wrecking Buildings
9-3-7: Elevator And Escalator Inspections And Fees
9-3-8: Surface And Sub-Surface Water Drainage
9-3-9: Soil Erosion Control Requirements
9-3-10: Water Meters
9-3-11: Dumpsters On Construction Sites
9-3-12: Temporary Sanitation Facilities On Construction Sites
9-3-13: Street And Site Maintenance
9-3-14: Construction Fencing
9-3-15: Depressed Or Cut Curb Required For New Driveways
9-3-1: OCCUPANCY OF STREET:
It shall not be lawful to occupy with building material, construction
equipment, or construction related accessories, any street, right-of-way, or
any part thereof. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-2: DRIVEWAYS:
A gravel construction entrance and driveway shall be installed prior to any
other work on the property, except residential which shall be required before
building material is delivered. The contractor is responsible for maintaining
the gravel access drive and keeping the street clean at all times. (Ord. 19-05,
6-4-2019)
9-3-3: RIGHT TO COMPLETE BUILDINGS UNDER OUTSTANDING PERMITS:
Authority is hereby affirmed to complete any building, structure, or portion
thereof either in the process of being constructed, erected, enlarged,
remodeled, altered, repaired, raised, lowered, underpinned, or moved at or
prior to the date of adoption of this title; provided a valid and prior permit
outstands therefor, the work accords with the building regulations in force at
issuance of such permit, and the building, structure, and various portions
thereof will be safe and sanitary upon completion and will fully accord with
the building and other laws of said Village in force at the time the permit was
issued. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-4: BUILDING CHANGED OR REPAIRED MUST COMPLY WITH THIS TITLE:
Any building, structure, or major portion thereof that is enlarged, remodeled,
or repaired or has a change of use in said Village shall be made to comply
throughout with the provisions of this title as if applied to new or original
work, provided the cost of the work proposed to be done exceeds one-third (1/3)
of the assessed value of the building, as determined by the County Assessor,
proposed to be changed or repaired. All new work of any type shall comply with
this title. The same materials and type of construction as were employed
originally may be used for such changes and repairs when the cost of the work
to be done is less than the said one-third (1/3) estimated value, provided such
work when completed will be consistent with the provisions of this title
pertaining to the zoning district and to public health and safety. The value
and cost referred to in this section shall be as of the date when the permit is
sought and shall be determined or approved by the building official. (Ord. 19-
05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-5: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
This title specifies minimum acceptable construction materials and methods.
However, the provisions of this title are not intended to prevent consideration
of the use of types or methods of construction or material required by this
title. Any person desiring to use types or methods of construction or materials
not specifically mentioned in this title shall file with the building official
authentic proof in support of claims that may be made regarding the sufficiency
of such types or methods of construction or materials. Such proof may include
adequate reports and test data from a recognized testing laboratory, or proven
and authentic methods or types of construction or materials are at least the
equivalent of the types and methods of construction and materials now required
under this title, then shall recommend to the Board of Trustees an amendment to
this title in order to make permissible the use of the same. If, in the opinion
of the building official, such proof is not sufficient to justify such
amendment to this title, the applicant may refer the entire matter to the Board
of Trustees, as provided by ordinance. The applicant desiring to use alternate
materials or methods or types of construction shall guarantee payment of all
expenses for necessary tests made by or on behalf of the Village. No such
alternate types or methods or construction or materials shall be used unless
authorized by the Board of Trustees by amendment to this title. (Ord. 19-05, 6-
4-2019)
9-3-6: MOVING OR WRECKING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to demolish or raze any
building within the Village of Hodgkins without having first obtained a permit
as hereinbefore described.
   B.   Bond: Any person so moving or razing any building within the Village of
Hodgkins shall first submit to the Village Clerk a performance bond in the
amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for the protection of any streets
or other public or private property that may be involved in such moving or
razing.
   C.   Restoration: Any person moving or razing any such building shall be
required to backfill the remaining foundation hole level to the existing
landscaping and shall remove and clear said premises of any litter, building
materials, masonry materials, or other similar materials remaining after such
moving or razing. The disturbed area shall be planted with permanent ground
cover, grass or sod, to prevent erosion.
   D.   Dust Control: Any person moving or razing a building shall have
facilities available to water the construction site during demolition activity
for the purpose of providing adequate dust control. In order to alleviate
excessive dust, all building demolitions shall be required to maintain and
provide watering as needed.
   E.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the
provisions hereinbefore set forth shall be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-7: ELEVATOR AND ESCALATOR INSPECTIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Every elevator and escalator now in operation or which may hereafter be
installed, together with all equipment thereof, shall be inspected at least
once every six (6) months, and in no case shall any new equipment be placed
into operation until an inspection of the same has been made. It shall be the
duty of each owner, agent, lessee, and occupant of any building wherein any
such equipment is installed, and of the person in charge or in control of any
such equipment, to permit the making of a test if such demand has been made.
Whenever any elevators or escalators, and all devices and equipment used in
connection therewith have been inspected, and all required tests have been made
of all safety devices with which such elevator or escalator is equipped, and
the result of such inspection and tests show such equipment, including all
safety devices, to be in good working condition and in good repair, it shall be
the duty of the building official to issue or cause to be issued a certificate
setting forth the result of such inspection and tests and containing the date
of inspection, the weight which such equipment will safely carry, and a
statement to the effect that the elevator complies with all Village
requirements. It shall be the joint and several duty of the owner, agent,
lessee, or occupant of the building in which such equipment is installed, to
frame the certificate and place the same in a conspicuous place in each
elevator and near each escalator. The words "safe condition" in this section
means that it is safe for any load up to the approved weight indicated in such
certificate.
   B.   If the result of the inspection or tests required under subsection A of
this section show that such elevator or escalator is in an unsafe condition or
bad repair, or show that any of the safety devices have not been installed or
if installed are not in good working order or not in good repair, the
certificate provided for in subsection A of this section shall not be issued
until such elevator or escalator, or such device or devices, have been put in
good working order and good repair.
   C.   When the elevator inspector finds any elevator or escalator in an
unsafe condition, he shall immediately report the same to the building
official, together with a statement of all facts relating to the condition of
such equipment. It shall be the duty of the building official, upon receiving
any such report, to order the operation of such equipment to be stopped and to
remain inoperative until it has been placed in a safe condition and in good
operating condition, and it shall be unlawful for any agent, owner, lessee, or
occupant of any building wherein any such equipment is located to permit or
allow the same to be used after receipt of a notice from the building official,
which notice shall be in writing, that such equipment is in an unsafe
condition, and it will remain so unlawful until it has been restored to a safe
and proper operating condition.
   D.   The fee for the semi-annual inspection of an elevator or escalator
shall be the cost of inspection plus a fifteen dollar ($15.00) administrative
charge. Said fee shall be the joint and several obligation of the owner, agent,
lessee, and occupant of any building wherein such equipment is installed. An
additional fee shall be charged for each additional inspection because the
initial inspection indicated the elevator or escalator to not be in a safe and/
or good operating condition. Said fee for each additional inspection shall be
the cost of inspection plus a fifteen dollar ($15.00) administrative charge.
   E.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to elevators and
escalators now or hereafter in operation or installed in a single-family
residence located in the Village (except where such is used in connection with
either a legal, non-conforming or illegal non-residential use of said
residence). (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-8: SURFACE AND SUB-SURFACE WATER DAMAGE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent, or other person in control or
possession of any premises jointly or severally to permit any eave trough,
footing drain, drain downspout, piping, sump pump, or other device or
appliance, permanent or temporary, above or below grade, for collecting and
discharging surface water, rain water, or any other source of surface run-off
water, ground water or sub-surface water to be so designed, located, or
constructed over or across any street, alley, public way, or any rights-of-way
thereof, or public property other than by means of a Village approved storm
sewer, drainage swale or other drainage system or structure. It is further the
intent of this title that no such waters shall be collected and discharged on
any adjoining property. All such waters must be discharged on the owner's
property, and no such waters shall be collected and discharged closer than
three feet (3') from the side lot line of the premises unless it is enclosed in
a sub-surface drainage system approved by the Village which discharges such
water at or near the front property line or at a point no closer than ten feet
(10') from the rear property line; provided, however, if there is a public
sidewalk on or adjacent to the subject property, no such waters shall be
collected and discharged closer than six feet (6') from any such sidewalk.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-9: SOIL EROSION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS:
The permittee shall provide soil erosion control measures including, but not
limited to, continuous and secured straw bales/silt fencing at all points of
downstream discharge to adjacent properties. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-10: WATER METERS:
When any new construction, addition, or alteration includes connection to the
Village of Hodgkins' public water supply, connection shall not be considered
complete until both the water meter and remote meter are installed. (Ord. 19-
05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-11: DUMPSTERS ON CONSTRUCTION SITES:
Dumpsters on construction sites shall be kept covered at all times and shall be
emptied when full before they overflow or construction waste is blown out of
the dumpster. The dumpster shall not be placed where it will block the vision
of any roadway and shall not be placed in the right-of-way, roadway, or street.
The dumpster shall be removed before a temporary or final occupancy is granted.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-12: TEMPORARY SANITATION FACILITIES ON CONSTRUCTION SITES:
All construction sites for new homes and non-residential construction sites
shall have temporary portable sanitation facilities. They shall be emptied on a
regular basis and not be allowed to overflow. The portable bathrooms shall not
be placed where they will block the vision of any roadway and shall not be
placed within the right-of-way, roadway, or street. The building official shall
approve the location of temporary sanitation facilities. The temporary
sanitation facilities shall be locked when there are no construction personnel
on site. They shall be removed before a temporary or final occupancy is
granted. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-13: STREET AND SITE MAINTENANCE:
The contractor shall be responsible for keeping the street clear of mud and for
keeping all debris in the on-site dumpster. The contractor shall be responsible
for removing any paper or debris which blows off the construction site. (Ord.
19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-14: CONSTRUCTION FENCING:
In order to ensure that construction activity is contained within a specified
area on the construction site and to prevent damage to trees, slopes, and other
sensitive areas, construction fencing shall be provided as follows:
   A.   Construction fencing shall be erected prior to the commencement of
construction for all non-residential buildings and building additions, all new
single-family residences and additions, and any other construction activity
that involves substantial grading or foundation work as determined by the
Village Engineer or building official. The Village Engineer or building
official may waive the requirement for construction fencing if it is determined
to be unnecessary by the scope of work involved.
   B.   Construction fencing shall be maintained for the duration of exterior
construction activity on a property.
   C.   Construction fencing shall enclose the entire work area except for the
designated construction access drive. The location of construction fencing
shall be specified on a site plan submitted for the building permit and shall
be subject to the approval of the building official.
   D.   No construction work shall extend beyond the confines of the fenced
area except as may be specifically authorized by the building official.
   E.   A stop work order as per section
9-2-22 of this title may be issued by the building official for any failure to
maintain construction fencing or violation of the work perimeter established by
the construction fencing. Upon issuance of a stop work order, work shall not be
allowed to commence until the construction fencing has been repaired to the
satisfaction of the building official. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-3-15: DEPRESSED OR CUT CURB REQUIRED FOR NEW DRIVEWAYS:
Any new driveway built for a new building accessing a street improved with
perimeter curbs shall include cutting the existing curb or replacement of said
curb with a depressed curb. This requirement shall apply to new driveways built
for new residential and non-residential buildings on all streets with curbs
regardless of the type of curb that exists prior to installation of the
driveway. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 4
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Compliance With This Title Necessary
9-4-2: Building Contrary To This Title Declared A Nuisance
9-4-3: Violations; Procedure
9-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH THIS TITLE NECESSARY:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person or persons, firm, or corporation
to construct, erect, enlarge, remodel, alter, repair, raise, lower, underpin,
change of use as defined in the Building Code, move or wreck any building,
structure, or any portion thereof, in violation of this title. It is further
declared unlawful to equip, use, or occupy any building, structure, or any
portion thereof in said Village with any devices or for any business or other
purposes, in any manner prohibited by this title. Violators of any of the
provisions or requirements for this section shall be subject to the general
penalty provided for violations of this title. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-4-2: BUILDING CONTRARY TO THIS TITLE DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any building, structure, or any portion thereof hereafter constructed, erected,
enlarged, remodeled, altered, repaired, raised, lowered, underpinned, or moved
within said Village, in any manner contrary to the provisions of this title or
any laws of the Village, is hereby declared a nuisance, and the person, owner,
agent, architect, builder, contractor, house-mover, or mechanic, so
constructing, erecting, enlarging, remodeling, altering, repairing, raising,
lowering, underpinning, or moving the same, contrary to any of the provisions
of said laws or this title, shall be subject to the general penalty provided
for violations of said laws or this title. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-4-3: VIOLATIONS; PROCEDURE:
A written notice of violation shall be provided to the contractor or permit
holder when violations are found during inspections. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
9-5-1: Penalty
9-5-1: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, neglects, or refuses to comply
with, or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title,
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense, and every such person or
corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day on which
such violation, neglect, or refusal shall continue; and any builder or
contractor who shall construct any building in violation of any of the
provisions of this title, and any architect designing, drawing plans for, or
having charge of such building or who shall permit it to be constructed, shall
be liable to the penalties provided and imposed by this section. (Ord. 19-05,
6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 6
CONSTRUCTION OF THIS TITLE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Conflicts Between General And Specific Provisions
9-6-2: Invalidity Of One Portion Of Title Shall Not Alter Remainder
9-6-1: CONFLICTS BETWEEN GENERAL AND SPECIFIC PROVISIONS:
When (if ever) a general provision or requirement of this title conflicts with
a specific provision thereof relating to the construction, equipment,
maintenance, use, or location of any building, structure, or any portion
thereof, in said Village, then, and for that case, the specific provision or
requirement shall prevail and govern. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-6-2: INVALIDITY OF ONE PORTION OF TITLE SHALL NOT ALTER REMAINDER:
In administering and enforcing this title, the invalidity (if any) of any
section or of any provision thereof shall not be construed or held to
invalidate any other section or any provision thereof - unless such invalidity
shall have been specifically established. The invalidity (if any) of any
section of any provision of this title, when applied to buildings, structures,
or any portion thereof completed before the adoption of said title, shall not,
for such cause, be construed or held to be invalid in its application to
buildings, structures, or any portion thereof constructed subsequent to said
adoption - unless such invalidity shall have been otherwise specifically
established in its application to such subsequent work. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 7
ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Building Regulations Adopted
9-7-1-1: International Residential Code For One- And Two- Family Dwellings
(IRC), 2015 Edition
9-7-1-2: Illinois State Plumbing Code (ISPC), 2014 Edition
9-7-1-3: NFPA 70, National Electrical Code (NEC), 2014 Edition
9-7-1-4: International Mechanical Code (IMC), 2015 Edition
9-7-1-5: International Fuel-Gas Code (IFGC), 2015 Edition
9-7-1-6: International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC), 2015 Edition
9-7-1-7: Illinois Accessibility Code (IAC), 2018 Edition
9-7-1-8: International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), 2015 Edition
9-7-1-9: International Building Code (IBC), 2015 Edition
9-7-1-10: NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, 2015 Edition
9-7-1-11: International Fire Code (IFC), 2015 Edition
9-7-1-12: International Swimming Pool And Spa Code, 2015 Edition
9-7-2: Monitoring Of Fire Alarm And Detection Systems
9-7-1: BUILDING REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The following codes are hereby adopted by reference as a part of this title,
subject, however, to the modifications and exceptions set forth herein.
   A.   Regulations For Detached Single-Family Residential Permits And Multiple
Single-Family Dwellings (Townhouses) As Defined By The International
Residential Code (IRC):
      1.   International Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings
(IRC), 2015 edition.
      2.   Illinois State Plumbing Code (ISPC), 2014 edition as mandated by the
State of Illinois.
      3.   Village of Hodgkins Fair Housing Policy.
      4.   NFPA 70, National Electric Code (NEC), 2014 edition.
      5.   International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC), 2015 edition.
      6.   Village of Hodgkins Rental Residential Housing Code.
      7.   Village of Hodgkins Neighborhood Preservation Program.
   B.   Regulations For Commercial, Industrial, And All Permits Other Than
Detached Single-Family Residential, Multiple Single-Family Dwellings
(Townhouses): All Building Code changes and modifications shall apply:
      1.   International Building Code (IBC), 2015 edition.
      2.   International Mechanical Code (IMC), 2015 edition.
      3.   International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC), 2015 edition.
      4.   International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), 2015 edition with
State of Illinois amendments.
      5.   Illinois State Plumbing Code (ISPC), 2014 edition as mandated by the
State of Illinois.
      6.   International Fire Code (IFC), 2015 edition.
      7.   International Property Maintenance Code (IPMC), 2015 edition.
      8.   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2015 edition.
      9.   NFPA 70, National Electric Code (NEC), 2014 edition.
      10.   NFPA 101, Life Safety Code (NFPA 101), 2015 edition.
      11.   Illinois Accessibility Code (IAC), 2018 edition as mandated by the
State of Illinois.
   C.   Amendments: The codes above are hereby amended as set forth in the
following sections.
   D.   Conflicts: Whenever the provisions of this title conflict with specific
or implied provisions of the codes, rules, or regulations set forth in this
title, as herein incorporated, the provisions of this title shall prevail and
govern. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-1: INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS
(IRC), 2015 EDITION:
   A.   The Village of Hodgkins will provide an incentive of fifty percent
(50%) of the total cost for the installation of an approved NFPA 13D
residential fire sprinkler system to any homeowner/contractor choosing to
install this life safety system in their new or existing residential dwelling.
The following criteria will be used to calculate the total cost. The building
contractor/home owner shall submit three (3) bids. The average of all three (3)
bids will be used to determine the fifty percent (50%) incentive. The bids
shall include:
      1.   Water main tap fee - if required;
      2.   Combined sprinkler and domestic water service;
      3.   All piping and valves after the tee for the sprinklers;
      4.   All installation and testing fees. (Ord. 19-06, 6-10-2019)
   B.   The following sections of the International Residential Code (IRC) are
deleted, modified, amended, or added:
      1.   R101.1 Title. Add the Village of Hodgkins in the space provided for
[Name of Jurisdiction].
      2.   R104.10.1 Areas Prone to Flooding. Delete the entire paragraph after
the section heading and replace with: For regulations pertaining to
construction in special flood hazard areas in addition to storm water run-off
requirements, refer to Title 12 of the Village of Hodgkins Municipal Code.
      3.   R105.2 Work Exempt from Permit. Delete the entire section up to
R105.2.1 and replace with: Refer to Section
9-2-8, "Work Exempt From Building Permits", of the Village Code.
      4.   R105.3.2 Time Limitation of Application. Delete the entire paragraph
after the section heading and replace with: Refer to Section
9-2-9 of the Village Code.
      5.   R105.5 Expiration. Delete the entire paragraph after the section
heading and replace with: Refer to Section
9-2-9 of the Village Code.
      6.   R112 General. Delete all R112.1 through R112.4 and replace with:
R112.1 General. The Village Board shall function as the Board of Appeals. All
appeals shall be submitted in writing no more than thirty (30) days after the
issuance of a violation notice on the matter to be appealed.
      7.   Table R301.2.(1) Insert the following data:
   TABLE 9- R301.2(1)
   CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
 
Ground Snow Wind Design         Seismic Design Subject To Damage From
Load        Speed Topographical Category       Weathering Frost Line Termite
                  Effects                                 Depth
25 P.S.F.   90    No            B              Severe     42"        Moderate
 
 
Winter       Ice Shield                 Air      Mean
Design Temp. Underlayment Flood Hazards Freezing Annual
             Required                   Index    Temp.
-45°F       Yes          Yes           1700     50°F
 
      8.   R309.5 Fire Sprinklers. Private garages - delete the section in its
entirety.
      9.   R313.2 One- and Two-family dwelling automatic fire sprinklers - add
exception # 2. The homeowner and/or contractor can choose to not install
automatic fire sprinklers by completing an affidavit indicating they are
requesting to construct the One and Two Family dwelling without the fire
sprinklers. It shall indicate they have been given complete information on the
benefits of a fire sprinkler system and the potential hazard to them and their
family without the fire sprinklers. It shall indicate, they are doing this at
their request and assume the full responsibility of the decision not to install
a fire sprinkler system in their One and Two Family Dwelling.
The homeowner is defined as the person and their family who will occupy the One
and Two Family dwelling for a minimum of 12 months after the certificate of
occupancy has been issued.
The contractor is defined as the contractor who is constructing the home
without a commitment from a potential homeowner to purchase the home.
      10.   R314.3 Smoke Alarms. Add the following sentence: For the purpose of
this section "immediate vicinity" shall mean within 15'-0" of the bedroom door.
      11.   R403.2 Footings for Wood Foundations. Delete this section in its
entirety.
      12.   R403.3, R403.3.4 Frost Protected Shallow Foundations. Delete these
sections.
      13.   R404.1.8 Delete this section in its entirety.
      14.   R404.2 Wood Foundation Walls through R404.4.11 Delete all sections
and tables in their entirety and add: Wood foundation and ICF foundation
systems are not permitted.
      15.   R405.2 Wood Foundations. Delete this section in its entirety.
      16.   R406.3 Damp proofing for Wood Foundations. Delete this section in
its entirety.
      17.   R504 Pressure Preservative-Treated Wood Floors (On Ground). Delete
this section in its entirety and add the following: Treated wood floors are not
permitted to bear directly on ground.
      18.   R505 Steel Floor Framing. Delete all sections and tables in their
entirety.
      19.   R603 Steel Wall Framing. Delete all sections, figures, and tables
and add the following: Steel wall framing is not permitted for load bearing
walls. Steel wall framing is permitted for non- load bearing walls and furring.
      20.   R702.3.4 Insulating Concrete Form Walls. Delete this section.
      21.   R804 Steel Roof Framing. Delete this section in its entirety.
      22.   R1006.2 Exterior Air Intake. Delete the following from the first
sentence: "or from spaces within the dwelling ventilated with outside air such
as crawl or attic spaces."
      23.   R1006.6 Add a new section: All masonry fireplace combustion air
ducts shall be class 0 non-combustible ducts.
      24.   Delete Chapters 25 through 32 in their entirety.
      25.   For specific construction requirements, fire suppression, and fire
alarm requirements for townhouses and multiple-family dwellings, see the
amendments in section 9-7-1-11, International Fire Code, of the Village Code.
      26.   Temporary one-story frame construction sheds or a trailer not
exceeding five hundred (500) square feet for use of builders during the period
of construction. Such shed or trailer shall be removed by the owner or person
in control thereof within thirty (30) days after the construction has been
completed and premises occupied by the owner, and each day any such shed or
trailer is permitted to remain after said date shall constitute a separate
violation of this Code.
      27.   Laminated beams or trusses made of wood or other material with
equivalent fire resistance or support to steel.
      28.   Schools, colleges, assembly halls, dance halls, bowling alleys, and
auditoriums over one story in height, shall have floors of not less than one-
hour fire resistance.
      29.   Metal Buildings are not allowed in residential District except
storage sheds.
      30.   Multi-family structures containing three or more living units, or
one or more living units in a structure containing any other type of use such
as business or industrial. The fire resistance rating of structural elements
(including walls, floors, and roof) and tenant separation or party walls shall
be a minimum of two hours and shall be constructed of masonry or concrete.
Exterior and load bearing wall construction shall be of masonry. All floors
shall be of the precast concrete type, or poured concrete type having at least
a two-hour fire resistance rating.
      31.   No person shall use any waste for the construction of any roadway,
ramp, hill, berm, or other structure, including as backfill, except as
permitted.
   A. Clean construction or demolition debris (as defined by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act), recycled concrete grindings may be used upon the
issuance of a building permit by the Village. A building permit will be issued
by the Village after review and approval of plans only for a bona fide
construction project and not for a project which is a subterfuge for the
disposal of such materials.
   B. All material which is used pursuant to a building permit must not be
contaminated. It is the responsibility of the permittee to inspect materials
and when deemed appropriate, test such material to determine that they are not
contaminated. The permittee shall allow the Village to test such materials
where the Village has probable cause to suspect contamination. All contaminated
materials must be removed when ordered by the Village.
      32.   Adopt Appendices A, B, C, E, F, H, J, K, M, O
      33.   Slab construction requirements for all types of structures
         a.   Mobile homes - All mobile homes shall have a slab conforming to
the following:
Full width and depth slab equal to the dimensions of the structure
Water and sewer installed to penetrate the slab
Slab a minimum of six inches thick with wire mesh
Base a minimum of 6 inch of CA6
6 mil vapor barrier with a six inch over lap at any seams
Maximum slope of the slab 1/8 inch in 12
Slab edge a minimum of 6 inches by 13 inches
Minimum 2 inches of foam insulation the full depth of the slab edge
Structure skirt shall extend around the edge with a flashing at the top
horizontal surface
Tie downs per the HUD requirements though the slab
Applies to existing lots when new structures are installed
         a.   Slabs under mobile homes for deck and stairs
Minimum 4 inch slab with 4 inches of base
Expansion joint at edge next to slab
Slab doweled to structure slab with #6 rebar every 12 inches
No vapor barrier required
         b.   Sheds on any lot
Minimum 4 inch slab with a 4 inch compacted base
         c.   One and two family dwellings with a crawl space
Minimum 3 inch slush concrete coat
Slab insulation per the Illinois Energy Conservation Act
         d.   One and Two Family dwellings with a basement
Floor slab per the International Residential Code
Slab insulation per the Illinois Energy Conservation Act
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019; amd. Ord. 19-06, 6-10-2019)
9-7-1-2: ILLINOIS STATE PLUMBING CODE (ISPC), 2014 EDITION:
There are no changes, additions, or deletions to the Illinois State Plumbing
Code. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-3: NFPA 70, NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE (NEC), 2014 EDITION:
   A.   The following sections of the NEC are deleted, modified, amended, or
added:
      1.   Article 90.6 - Delete this section in its entirety and add the
following: The Village Board shall function as the Board of Appeals. All
appeals shall be submitted in writing not more than thirty (30) days after the
issuance of a violation notice.
      2.   Delete the following articles in the National Electric Code: (The
following wiring methods are not permitted.
Article 326 - Integrated Gas Spacer Cable:   IGS
Article 330 - Metal-clad Cable: Type MC
Article 332 - Mineral-insulated, Metal Sheathed Cable: Type MI
Article 334 - Non-metallic Sheathed Cable: Types NMC, and NMS
Article 338 - Service-Entrance Cable: Type Se and USE
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-4: INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE (IMC), 2015 EDITION:
   A.   The following sections of the International Mechanical Code are
deleted, modified, amended, or added.
      1.   Section 101.1 Title. Insert Village of Hodgkins in the space
provided for [name of jurisdiction].
      2.   Section 106.5.3 Fee Refunds. Delete this section in its entirety.
      3.   Section 108.5 Stop Work Orders. Enter $200.00 in the space provided
for [Amount] and delete the last part of the sentence "or more than [amount]
dollars."
      4.   Section 109 Means of Appeal. Delete this section and add the
following: "The Village Board shall function as the Board of Appeals. All
appeals shall be submitted in writing no more than thirty (30) days after the
issuance of a violation notice.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-5: INTERNATIONAL FUEL-GAS CODE (IFGC), 2015 EDITION:
   A.   The following sections of the International Fuel-Gas Code are deleted,
modified, amended, or added.
      1.   Section 101.1 Title. Insert Village of Hodgkins in space provided
for [name of jurisdiction].
      2.   Section 106.6.3 Fee Refunds. Delete this section.
      3.   Section 109 Means of Appeal. Delete this section and add the
following: "The Village Board shall function as the Board of Appeals." All
appeals shall be submitted in writing no more than thirty (30) days after the
issuance of a violation notice.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-6: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE (IPMC), 2015 EDITION:
   A.   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code
are deleted, modified, amended, or added.
      1.   Section 101.1 Title. Insert Village of Hodgkins in the space
provided for [name of jurisdiction].
      2.   Section 106.4 After the word thereof in the third line, insert not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
each day.
      3.   Section 111 Means of Appeal. Delete this section in its entirety and
add the following: "The Village Board shall function as the Board of Appeals.
All appeals shall be submitted in writing no more than thirty (30) days after
the issuance of a violation notice.
      4.   Section 302.4 Weeds. Insert 6 inches in the [Height] spaces
provided.
      5.   Section 304.14 Insect Screens. Insert May 1st and October 15th in
the [Date] spaces provided.
      6.   Section 602.3 Heat Supply. Insert October 15th and May 1st in the
[Date] spaces provided.
      7.   Section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Insert October 15th and May
1st in the [Date] spaces provided.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-7: ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY CODE (IAC), 2018 EDITION:
No changes, deletions, or modifications to the Illinois Accessibility Code.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-8: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE (IECC), 2015 EDITION:
   A.   The following sections of the IECC are deleted, modified, amended or
added:
      1.   Section C101.1 & R101.1 Title. Insert Village of Hodgkins in the
space provided for [Name of Jurisdiction].
      2.   Section C108.4 & R108.4 Stop Work Orders. Enter $200.00 in the space
provided for [Amount] and delete the last part of the sentence "or more than
[amount] dollars."
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-9: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC), 2015 EDITION:
The following sections of the IBC are deleted, modified, amended or added:
   A.   101.1 Insert the Village of Hodgkins.
   B.   Change as follows: Referenced Codes and Standards: The standards
referenced in this code and listed in Chapter 35 shall be considered part of
the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.
   C.   113 Board of Appeals. Delete entire section. The Village Board shall
function as the Board of Appeals. All Appeals shall be submitted in writing no
more than thirty (30) days after the issuance of a violation notice on the
matter to be appealed.
   D.   310.7 Add the following: For walls and openings in R-3 and R-4 Use
groups within six (6) feet of adjacent buildings or property lines, a two (2)
hour fire resistance rating shall be provided. All two (2) hour fire resistive
rated walls shall either protrude through the outer roofline or shall have
horizontal roof line protection, as shall be approved by the Code Official.
   E.   Table 708.1 Add as follows: Line 6 tenant spaces change to two (2)
hours with no exceptions.
Fire Sprinklers
   F.   Section [F] 903.2(a) Add the following: All new construction of any
square footage or height.
Exception: When in compliance with all the following
         a.   Less than fifteen hundred (1,500) square feet in area
         b.   Single story
         c.   Not used as a dwelling or sleeping
         d.   Not a high hazard group
         e.   Not used for high hazard products or hazardous materials
         f.   No basements
   G.   Section [F] 903.2(b) Add the following: All stories below grade.
   H.   Section [F] 903.2(c) Approved NFPA 13R with additional protection of
bathrooms and closets. Automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed in
all new multi-family residential premises "shall mean a building or portion
thereof containing more than four (4) dwelling units."
   I.   Section [F] 903.2(d) Approved NFPA 13R with additional protection of
bathrooms and closets. Automatic fire sprinkler system shall be installed in
all existing multi-family residential premises or portion thereof containing
more than four (4) dwelling units and all residential units within a mixed-use
group structure, regardless of construction type.
   J.   Section [F] 903.2(e) Fire Alarm monitoring of Fire Sprinkler System in
multi-family residential shall be in compliance with NFPA72 audible and visual
alarm devices and shall be required on the exterior of the building and each
apartment shall have at least one visual and audible alarm device within the
living quarters.
   K.   Section [F] 903.2(f) All fire sprinkler systems, water control valves
shall be located no less than two (2) feet nor more than five (5) feet above
the finished floor and subject to the approval of the Fire District.
   L.   Section [F] 903.2(g) Reduced pressure backflow prevention devices are
required to be installed on all sprinkler systems, where water source is served
by a public water supply system.
   M.   Section [F] 903.2(h) Fire Department sprinkler connections shall be
required and subject to the approval of the Pleasantview Protection Fire
District.
   N.   Section [F] 903.2(i) Any violation of or interference with the
enforcement of any provision of Section shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $500.00 and not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a
violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for which
a fine herein provided shall be imposed.
Standpipe Systems
   O.   Section [F] 905 Standpipe Systems. add: Standpipes shall be installed
on new construction when one of the following applies or the code whichever is
stricter;
      1.   Any part of the building is over thirty (30) feet above the lowest
level for access.
      2.   Any floor of the building is three (3) or more stories in height.
      3.   When any part of the building is over one hundred fifty (150) feet
from where the closest fire department vehicle can operate.
      4.   Design Requirements: All standpipes shall be Class I or III system
designed and installed in accordance with NFPA #14, Standpipe and Hose Systems,
2013 Edition.
      5.   All two and one half (21/2) inch outlets shall include a two and
one-half (21/2) by one and one-half (11/2) inch reducer with a one and one-half
(11/2) inch cap.
      6.   Maintenance and Testing: The maintenance program for fire protection
systems and components shall conform to the requirements in title 9 of the
Village Code.
      7.   Vacant Buildings: Vacant or unoccupied buildings or portions thereof
shall maintain all required sprinkler, standpipe, and/or protective signaling
systems and all component parts in a workable condition at all times.
      8.   The system(s) shall be tested in the presence of the Pleasantview
Fire District's Code Official if the adequacy of the system(s) is required.
   P.   Section [F] 905.3a Add the following: Any floor of the building is
three (3) or more stories in height.
Fire Alarm and Detection Systems
   Q.   Section [F] 907.2.9 Delete text and add: All R-2 occupancies.
   R.   Section [F] 907.2.24 Add the following: All buildings having multiple
uses including residential except detached (single- family homes).
   S.   Section [F] 907.2.25 Add the following: All Townhomes.
   T.   Section [F] 907.2.26 Add the following: Two (2) story buildings over
two thousand (2,000) square feet.
Exit and Exit Access Doorway Configuration
   U.   Section [F] 1007.1.1.2 Add the following sentence: All areas, rooms,
and spaces over 2,000 square feet shall have a minimum of two separate remote
exits.
Corridors
   V.   Table 1020.1 Delete the fire resistance rating reduction for corridors
"with sprinkler systems" for group R and add: All corridors shall have a one-
hour fire resistance rating (minimum).
Exits
   W.   Section [F] 1022.1 Add the following: All buildings over 2,000 square
feet shall have a minimum of two separate remote exits.
Exit Discharge
   X.   Section [F] 1028.5 Hard Surface Requirements and Remove all Exceptions:
Delete the exceptions and add: From any exit discharge to the public way, the
walking surface shall be a paved or other permanent hard surface that shall be
maintained year round as approved by the Code Official.
   Y.   Section [F] 1807.1.4 Wood foundations - Delete entire section. Wood
foundations are not permitted.
Accessibility
   Z.   Delete Chapter 11, of 2015 IBC
Electrical
   AA.   Delete Chapter 27, Electrical, and replace with "See Section
 9-7-1 of the Village Code.
Plumbing Systems
   BB.   Delete Chapter 29, Plumbing Systems, and replace with "See Section
9-7-1 of the Village Code.
Elevators and Conveying Systems
   CC.   Section 3001.2 Add the following:
Referenced Standards to be as stringent and comply with current Illinois
Elevator Safety Act (225 ILCS 312) and its Rules for private residential
conveyance application, the Act does not apply; however, the IBC code shall for
new installation, permits, final acceptance. For applications not covered by
the Illinois Elevator Safety Act, those conveyance applications shall be
covered under the IBC code by the AHJ for new installation, permits, final
acceptance, periodic inspections and testing, unsafe conditions, power to seal
equipment, put conveyance out of service, and certificate compliance as well as
owner/agent responsibility for contractor, maintenance, accident/injury
responsibility.
   DD.   Section 3001.5 Add the following: General, Escalators and Moving
Walks, Conveyors - Miscellaneous hoisting and elevating equipment: All
miscellaneous hoisting and elevating equipment shall be subjected to tests and
inspections as required by the AHJ to ensure safe operation.
As per changes, a full load governor and full load safety test to be done after
installation of hoist, a major alteration, and a jump of the hoist tower
travel.
   EE.   Section 3002.4 Delete: four or more stories or more above grade or
four or more stories below grade plane
   FF.   Section 3004.4 Personnel and material hoists-change last sentence to
the following: Field test(s) including full load safety test shall be conducted
upon completion of an installation or a major alteration or jump of a personnel
hoist.
   GG.   Section 3005.1 Access - Change to read as follows: An approved means
of access shall be provided to elevator machine rooms and overhead machinery
equipment spaces. This means is not to be used as a passage way through the
machine room to other areas of the building or roof.
   HH.   Section 3006.3 Delete exception # 2
   II.   Use of Waste Materials, Permit Required:
      1.   No person shall use any waste for the construction of any roadway,
ramp, hill, berm, or other structure, including as backfill, except as
permitted in this Section.
      2.   Clean construction or demolition debris (as defined by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Act), recycled concrete grindings may be used upon the
issuance of a building permit by the Village. A building permit will be issued
by the Village after review and approval of plans only for a bona fide
construction project and not for a project which is a subterfuge for the
disposal of such materials.
      3.   All material which is used pursuant to a building permit must not be
contaminated. It is the responsibility of the permittee to inspect materials
and when deemed appropriate, test such material to determine that they are not
contaminated. The permittee shall allow the Village to test such materials
where the Village has probable cause to suspect contamination. All contaminated
materials must be removed when ordered by the Village.
      4.   Any person using any clean construction or demolition debris (as
defined by the Illinois Environmental Protection Act), recycled concrete
grindings pursuant to a building permit shall maintain records containing the
following information: name of the generator of the material and where
generated, name of the transporter of the material, and date of delivery. The
permittee shall maintain permanent records at the job site which records are
available for inspection by the Village. Not less often than once a week, the
permittee shall provide a record to the Village showing the customers dumping
material at the site and the number of loads dumped.
      5.   The building permit fee for use of clean construction or demolition
debris (as defined by the Illinois Environmental Protection Act), recycled
concrete grindings shall be $250.00 for the initial review of plans and $3.00
per truck of materials dumped at the site. The $3.00 fee shall be determined on
a monthly basis and shall be paid to the Village by the 15th day of the
following month. The permit fee shall be accompanied by documentation showing
how the total fee was calculated. In addition, the permittee shall be required
to reimburse the Village of any testing costs if the test determines that
contaminated materials have been dumped at the site.
   JJ.   Adopt the following appendices: H105, H106, I
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-10: NFPA 101 LIFE SAFETY CODE, 2015 EDITION:
See section R 313.2 of the IRC for requirements for fire sprinklers in a one
and two family dwelling.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-11: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE (IFC), 2015 EDITION:
The following sections of International Fire Code are deleted, modified,
amended, or added:
   A.   101.1 Insert: Village of Hodgkins.
   B.   101.1 Insert: It is hereby noted that the Village of Hodgkins defers
plan review authority regarding matters of fire prevention and fire protection
to the Pleasantview Fire Protection District with ultimate final authority for
decisions given to the Village of Hodgkins Board of Trustees.
   C.   102.7 Change as follows: Reference Standards: The standards referenced
in this Code and listed in Chapter 80 shall be considered part of the
consideration of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such reference.
   D.   103.1.1 It shall be the duty and responsibility of the Chief
Administrator of the Fire District, or his designee, to enforce the provisions
of this Code. The designated enforcement officer of this Code is herein
referred to as the Code Official.
   E.   104.11.4 Add: Barricading Vacant or Fire Damaged Property: Every person
owning or having charge or control of any vacant or fire damaged building shall
remove all combustible waste and refuse therefrom and lock, barricade, or
otherwise secure all windows, doors, and other openings in the building to
prohibit entry by unauthorized persons.
   F.   105.4.1 Add: Analysis Review and Approval of New Construction Plan: The
Fire Protection District's Bureau of Fire Prevention shall analyze, review, and
approve all plans for new construction (as defined by this Code) in that
District; that approval will certify that, if the construction is completed in
conformity with the plans and specifications submitted to the Bureau of Fire
Prevention then that construction will be in compliance with the then
applicable Codes and Ordinances.
   G.   105.4.7 Add: Analysis Review and Approval of Minor Alterations and
Repairs: The Bureau of Fire Prevention shall analyze, review, and approve all
plans for any minor alterations or repairs to property in the Pleasantview Fire
Protection District.
   H.   105.4.8 Add: Application Requirements: All persons, firms, and
corporations seeking to build new construction within the Village of Hodgkins
shall make application for the approval of all plans and specifications
therefor by submittal of the same, along with an application form and any other
information as may be required by the Village of Hodgkins Building Department
and the Bureau of Fire Prevention.
   I.   201.5 Add: Abbreviations
      1.   The abbreviations NFPA and NfiPA mean National Fire Protection
Association.
      2.   The abbreviation IFC shall mean the International Fire Code, 2015
Edition.
      3.   The abbreviation LSC shall mean the NFPA #101, Life Safety Code,
2015 Edition.
   J.   F-202.1 Add: Definitions
      1.   Boarding Houses, Multi-Family Dwellings: Use Group R-2 shall include
all boarding houses and similar buildings arranged for the shelter and sleeping
accommodations in which the occupants are primarily not transient in nature.
      2.   Change of Use: For the purpose of determining a "change in use,"
this shall mean the change from one general property use to another, or change
from one specific property use to another within the same general property use.
Listings of both general and specific property uses are found in the Village of
Hodgkins Building and Zoning Code.
      3.   Buildings or parts of a building vacant for more than one (1) year
shall be considered a change of use.
      4.   Code Official: Wherever the term "Code Official" appears in this
Fire Prevention Code, it shall mean the appropriate Chief Administrator or
designee.
      5.   Condominium: A condominium is a form of ownership of real estate.
      6.   Fireworks: The term fireworks shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary
exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and
shall include blank cartridges and toy cannons, in which explosives are used,
the type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same,
firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, bombs, sparklers, smoke
bombs, snakes, or facsimile, or other fireworks of like construction and any
fireworks containing any explosive compound, or any tablets or other device
containing any explosive substance, or containing combustible substances
producing visual effects: provided, however, that the term "fireworks" shall
not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps containing twenty- five hundredths (25/100) grains or less of
explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and the
toy pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty hundredths (20/
100) grains of explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted
at all times.
      7.   New Construction: New construction, when used in this code, are (1)
those new buildings, (2) those buildings having height and/or area added to an
existing building, (3) those buildings changing Use Groups or there is
replacement of more than 50% of the existing building.
      8.   Townhouse/Rowhouse: A townhouse or rowhouse is considered as a Use
Group R-3. For walls and openings within six (6) feet of adjacent buildings or
property lines, a two (2) hour fire resistance rating shall be provided. All
two (2) hour fire resistive rated walls shall either protrude through the outer
roofline or shall have horizontal roofline protection, as shall be pre-approved
by the Code Official.
      9.   NFPA 901 Standard Classification for Incident Reporting and Fire
Protection Data - 2016 edition.
   K.   301.3 Add: Cooking and Heating Appliances; Hotels, Motels, Boarding
Houses, Rooming Houses, and Dormitories: The use of any cooking or heating
appliances, other than what has been provided by any hotel, motel, boarding
house, rooming house, or dormitory shall be prohibited.
   L.   311.2.2 Delete text and Exceptions. Add: Fire Protection Vacant
Buildings: Vacant or unoccupied buildings or portions thereof shall maintain
all required sprinkler, standpipe and/or protective signaling systems, and all
component parts in a workable condition at all times.
      1.   The system(s) shall be tested in the presence of the Pleasantview
Fire District's Code Official if the adequacy of the system(s) is questioned.
   M.   315.3.5 Add: Periodic Removal: Combustible materials shall be removed
daily, or more often as is necessary, to suitable vaults, bins, dumpsters,
compactors, or separate buildings. Such practices shall be as approved by the
Code Official.
   N.   505 Premises Identification: Delete Section 505.1 and replace with the
following:
      1.   Responsibility: All owners of every building within the corporate
limits of the Village of Hodgkins shall place and maintain on the building or
building accessory (defined as a mailbox, sign, post, or other such item)
Arabic numbers showing the proper street number assigned to the building by the
municipality or county in which the building is located.
      2.   Design: The Arabic numbers are to be a minimum of six (6) inches in
height.
      3.   Building Accessory: On buildings that are not visible from the
street, the building accessory with the required Arabic numbers shall be
located within ten (10) feet of the driveway or sidewalk leading to the
building.
      4.   Contrasting Colors: The Arabic numbers shall have a color that is
different from and contrasts with the building or building accessory to which
the numbers are attached and shall be visible from any direction of travel from
the street.
      5.   Multi-Tenant Buildings: Multi-tenant buildings with multiple access
locations shall have building identification on the front and rear of the
building for each tenant.
   O.   506 Add: Rapid Entry System (Key Boxes) Delete Section 506 and add the
following:
      1.   General: All buildings that are equipped with an approved fire alarm
system that consists of automatic detection and/or all buildings equipped with
an approved automatic sprinkler system and are interconnected to an alarm
monitoring agency shall have an approved key box system.
      2.   Location: The Code Official shall approve the location of the key
box.
      3.   Contents: The key box shall contain keys to gain necessary access to
the building at:
         a.   Locked points of ingress/egress whether on the exterior or
interior of the building.
         b.   Locked electrical, mechanical, or storage rooms.
         c.   Elevator controls.
         d.   Alarm panels and devices.
         e.   Other areas designated by the Code Official.
      4.   Key Identification: Each key shall be identified in an approved
manner for quick use in case of an emergency.
      5.   Master Key: Where possible, a single master key shall be provided.
      6.   Alarm: At the request of the owner or lessee, the Code Official
shall permit the installation of a key box tamper switch connected to the
building's security alarm system.
   P.   Section 507 Fire Protection Water Supplies: Delete the entire section
and replace with the following:
      1.   Application: This section defines water supplies for use for new
construction.
      2.   Water Source: All buildings or structures shall be served by a
public water supply system meeting this criterion. This system shall be under
pressure with an average static pressure of not less than thirty-five (35)
pounds per square inch (psi). Flows shall be calculated at twenty (20) (psi)
residual pressure. The supplies shall be available for a continuous four (4)
hour duration except for flows less than two thousand (2,000) gallons per
minute (gpm) need be available for a two (2) hour duration.
      3.   All changes to the Village water system to comply with the water
source requirements shall be at the expense of the owner or developer.
      4.   Fire Flow Required: The following water supplies in gallons per
minute (gpm) are required based on the hazards therein:
         a.   Single-Family Detached Residential - one thousand (1,000) (gpm)
to one thousand five hundred (1,500) (gpm).
         b.   Town/Row or Cluster Housing - one thousand five hundred (1,500)
(gpm) to two thousand (2,000) (gpm).
         c.   Apartment Type Construction - three thousand (3,000) (gpm) to
four thousand (4,000) (gpm).
         d.   Industrial and Storage - three thousand (3,000) (gpm) to five
thousand (5,000) (gpm).
         e.   Research and Development Laboratories - three thousand (3,000)
(gpm) to four thousand (4,000) (gpm).
         f.   Business and Commercial Areas - three thousand (3,000) (gpm) to
four thousand five hundred (4,500) (gpm).
         g.   Mercantile Centers - three thousand (3,000) (gpm) to six thousand
(6,000) (gpm).
         h.   Assembly and Educational - three thousand (3,000) (gpm) to five
thousand (5,000) (gpm).
         i.   Health Care and Institutional - three thousand (3,000) (gpm) to
four thousand (4,000) (gpm).
         j.   High Hazard - three thousand (3,000) (gpm) to eight thousand
(8,000) (gpm).
Fire Hydrants
      5.   Plans Submitted: Plans shall be provided prior to any construction
showing the location of fire hydrants and sprinklers and/or standpipe
connection on either public or private property and shall be approved by the
Code Official before any building construction starts. All changes to the
Village water system to comply with the hydrant requirements shall be at the
expense of the owner or developer. An approved hydrant layout shall be
submitted before a permit is issued.
      6.   Distance to Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be located along public
streets so that no building or structure to be protected will be over two
hundred fifty (250) feet from any hydrant. Where this may not be physically
possible, additional hydrants shall be located upon the premises accessible to
motorized fire apparatus.
      7.   Hydrants in Operation: Water supplies, including fire hydrants in
accordance with this code, shall be in operation prior to the start of
construction of any building.
      8.   Hydrants Along Streets: Hydrants shall be located at street
intersections with intermediate hydrants provided so that the space between
hydrants shall not exceed three hundred (300) feet. This distance shall be
measured along an approved fire lane, access route, street, or similar
apparatus route.
      9.   Special Locations: Additional fire hydrants may be required and
located closer than the spacing required for high hazard classifications, as
defined in NFPA #101 (Life Safety Code) (2015), for dead end roads or at the
termination of cul-de-sacs.
      10.   Supplemental Hydrants: Additional fire hydrants shall be provided
within five hundred (500) feet of each building so that the required fire flow
divided by one thousand (1,000) will equal the number of hydrants available.
      11.   Connections: A fire hydrant shall be located in close proximity (75
feet minimum) to any fire department connection (sprinkler or standpipe) as
determined by the Code Official.
      12.   Parking Restricted: Parking is not permitted within fifteen (15)
feet of a fire hydrant.
      13.   Distance to Roadway: Hydrants will be located approximately five
(5) feet from all weather roadways.
      14.   Distance to Buildings: Hydrants shall be located no closer than
twenty-five (25) feet from the building to be protected. Hydrants shall be
located no closer than fifty (50) feet from transformers, other hazardous
electrical equipment or other hazards to the use of the fire hydrants where
practical.
      15.   Pumper Outlet Direction: Each hydrant shall have the pumper
(steamer) connection facing the primary street or fire lane and shall be
accessible so that a connection can be made between the hydrant and the
apparatus located in the street with twenty (20) feet of suction hose.
      16.   Hydrant Outlet Location: Fire hydrant outlets shall be a minimum of
eighteen (18) inches and no more than thirty-six (36) inches above the finished
grade.
      17.   Hydrant Protection: When subject to physical damage from vehicles,
fire hydrants shall be protected from damage by approved methods, including
barriers.
      18.   Fire hydrants used in conjunction with water supplies shall be of a
type acceptable to the Village of Hodgkins Water Department and the Fire
Protection District. Hydrants shall meet the standards of the American Water
Works Association C-502. Hydrants shall include a six (6) inch barrel, two (2)
two and one-half (21/2) inch outlet and one (1) five inch Storz connection with
a cover/cap. This cover/cap shall be connected to the hydrant with a 0.125"
vinyl coated aircraft cable. If this type of connection can not be used, final
determination shall be made by the Fire Code Official. Outlet threads shall be
American National Standard. An auxiliary gate valve shall be provided on the
hydrant branch line (minimum six (6) inch diameter).
      19.   Existing fire hydrants that are replaced shall meet the above
criteria. Out of service hydrants shall be removed including all piping up to
the underground shutoff.
   Q.   511 Add: Miscellaneous Provisions
      1.   Tenant Separation: Each tenant space shall be separated from other
tenant spaces and corridors by walls, partitions, and floor-ceiling assemblies
having at least a one (1) hour rating approved fire resistance rating. The
floor-ceiling assembly is not required to have a one (1) hour rating when not
required by the IBC and the building has a complete automatic sprinkler system.
      2.   Hazardous Areas: Rooms used, elevator equipment, electrical
equipment, boiler rooms, fuel storage, janitor's closets, laundry rooms,
maintenance shops and similar hazardous areas shall be separated from other
building areas by wall/floor/ceiling/window/opening assemblies having a fire
resistance rating of not less than one (1) hour with appropriate protection of
openings into the rooms. Opening protection shall be per the IBC. The floor-
ceiling assembly is not required to have a one-hour rating when not required by
the IBC.
      3.   Fire Resistance Rating, Maintenance, and Repair: The fire resistance
of walls, floors, ceilings, and partitions, including openings therein and
other static fire protection requirements shall be maintained in proper
condition and repair at all times.
      4.   Smoke Resistance: Walls, floors, ceilings, and partitions, including
openings therein that can assist in the prevention of smoke and gas movement,
shall be maintained in proper condition at all times.
      5.   Ambulance Cot: Where elevators are provided, at least one (1)
elevator cab shall be of such size to accommodate a cot that is 24 inches by 84
inches in the horizontal open position and the accompanying personnel.
   R.   605.13 Add: Electrical Installations: All electrical components,
wiring, and equipment shall be designed, manufactured, installed, and
maintained in accordance with NFPA #70, listed in Chapter 80.
   S.   901.5.2 Add: Building Occupancy: When any building or structure is
required to be equipped with an approved fire protection system, the system
shall be in full operation before the building may be occupied.
   T.   901.5.3 Add: Complete Information: The Code Official shall determine
the detail of information required, including a description of the maintenance
performed, time, date, and extent of test performed.
   U.   901.6.2 Records: Add: Reports shall be submitted to the Pleasantview
Fire District Bureau of Fire Prevention on an annual basis.
   V.   901.6.3 Add: Maintenance and Testing: The maintenance program for fire
protection systems and components shall conform to the requirements in title 9
of the Village Code.
   W.   903.2 Automatic Sprinkler Systems: Minimum Requirements:
      1.   Design: Automatic fire suppression systems shall be designed in
accordance with appropriate standards of the National Fire Protection
Association. The Code Official shall approve design criteria.
      2.   Automatic Sprinkler Protection: The fire suppression system shall be
an automatic sprinkler system unless the Code Official approves another type of
system.
      3.   Periodic Testing and Inspection: All automatic sprinkler systems
shall be maintained, periodically inspected, and tested in accordance with NFPA
13, NFPA 25, Chapter 80.
      4.   Valve Control Area Diagram: A diagram showing areas served by
control valves shall be placed adjacent to such valves and in the riser room.
   X.   Section [F] 903.2(a) Add the following: All new construction of any
square footage or height.
Exception: When in compliance with all the following
         a.   Less than fifteen hundred (1,500) square feet in area
         b.   Single story
         c.   Not used as a dwelling or sleeping
         d.   Not a high hazard group
         e.   Not used for high hazard products or hazardous materials
         f.   No basements
   Y.   Section 903.2b Add the following: All stories below grade.
   Z.   Section 903.2c Add the following: Approved NFPA 13R with additional
protection of bathrooms and closets. Automatic sprinklers systems shall be
installed in all new multiple family premises "shall mean a building or portion
thereof containing more than four (4) dwelling units."
   AA.   Section 903.2d Add the following: Approved NFPA 13R with additional
protection of bathrooms and closets. Automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be
installed in existing multi-family residential premises or portion thereof
containing more than four (4) dwelling units and all residential units within a
mixed-use group structure, regardless of construction type.
   BB.   Section [F] 903.2(e) Fire Alarm monitoring of Fire Sprinkler System in
multi-family residential shall be in compliance with NFPA72 audible and visual
alarm devices and shall be required on the exterior of the building and each
apartment shall have at least one visual and audible alarm device within the
living quarters.
   CC.   Section [F] 903.2(:f) All fire sprinkler systems, water control valves
shall be located no less than two (2) feet nor more than five (5) feet above
the finished floor and subject to the approval of the Pleasantview Fire
Protection District.
   DD.   Section [F] 903.2(g) Reduced pressure backflow prevention devices are
required to be installed on all sprinkler systems, where water source is served
by a public water supply system.
   EE.   Section [F] 903.2(h) Fire Department sprinkler connections shall be
required and subject to the approval of the Pleasantview Fire Protection
District. Provide a strobe over the top of the fire department connection.
   FF.   Section [F] 903.2(I) Any violation of or interference with the
enforcement of any provision of Section 9-2-5-2-1 through and including
sections 9-2-5-2-6 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $500.00 and
not more than $1,000.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for which a fine herein
provided shall be imposed.
Standpipe Systems
   GG.   Section [F] 905 Standpipe Systems add: Standpipes shall be installed
on new construction when one of the following applies or the code whichever is
stricter:
      1.   Any part of the building is over thirty (30) feet above the lowest
level for access.
      2.   Any floor of the building is three (3) or more stories in height.
      3.   When any part of the building is over one hundred fifty (150) feet
from where the closest fire department vehicle can operate.
      4.   Design Requirements: All standpipes shall be Class I or III system
designed and installed in accordance with NFPA #14, Standpipe and Hose Systems,
2013 Edition.
      5.   All two and one half (21/2) inch outlets shall include a two and
one-half (21/2) by one and one half (11/2) inch reducer with a one and one half
(11/2) inch cap.
      6.   Maintenance and Testing: The maintenance program for fire protection
systems and components shall conform to the requirements of title 9 of the
Village Code.
      7.   Vacant Buildings: Vacant or unoccupied buildings or portions there
of
   HH.   F-905.2 All two and one-half (21/2) inch outlets shall include a two
and one-half (21/2) by one and one-half (11/2) inch reducer with a one and one-
half (11/2) inch cap.
   II.   F-907 Fire Alarms and Detection Systems: Delete the entire Section 907
and replace with the following:
      1.   Protective Signaling (Fire Alarm) Systems and Automatic Detection
Systems.
      2.   Design: Automatic protective signaling (fire alarm) systems and
automatic detection systems shall be designed in accordance with the
appropriate standards of the National Fire Protection Association. The Code
Official shall approve the design criteria.
      3.   Where Required: The following are locations where a protective
signaling system with automatic detection is required.
      4.   Residential Uses: In all buildings of Use Groups R-1 and R-2.
      5.   All buildings having multiple uses, including residential use
(except R-4).
      6.   Exception: Existing buildings of R-2 Use Group with four (4) units
or less, such as lodging house, dormitories, apartments, and similar
occupancies.
      7.   Townhomes Use Group R-3: All new construction townhomes or similarly
used buildings.
      8.   Other Uses: All other buildings over one (1) story in height, and
one (1) story buildings over one thousand (1,000) square feet in area.
      9.   Panel Identification: An outside weather resistant strobe light
shall be located at the entrance providing access to each alarm and/or
annunciator panel.
      10.   Zone Identification: Each zone of each panel shall be clearly and
permanently identified in a manner approved by the Code Official.
      11.   Periodic Testing and Inspection: All automatic protective signaling
(fire alarm) systems and automatic detection systems shall be maintained,
periodically inspected and tested in accordance with NFPA 72, Chapter 45.
      12.   All protective signaling system connections shall be installed in a
method approved by the Fire Protection District.
      13.   Exception: Single-family residences.
      14.   Systems Out of Service: Protective-signaling systems shall be
maintained in service at all times. Systems shall not be out of service for
more than eight (8) hours for maintenance or repair.
      15.   Zones: Each floor and each type of system shall be separately
zoned.
      16.   Outside Alerting Device: All fire alarm and fire suppression
systems shall have an outside alerting device of a type and at a location
approved by the Code Official.
      17.   Duct Detectors: All duct smoke detectors installed or repaired
after the effective date of title 9 of the Village Code shall signal in a
supervisory condition only.
   JJ.   909.1 Smoke Control Systems: An emergency smoke control system shall
be provided in new construction as follows:
Scope and Purpose: Add the following:
      1.   Multiple Story or Height of Buildings: In all buildings over six (6)
stories or seventy-five (75) feet in height.
      2.   Atriums: In buildings with multi-story atriums or open walls.
      3.   Covered Malls: In all covered malls, including individual tenant
spaces and anchor stores.
   KK.   909.2 General Design Requirements: Add the following:
      1.   Where roof gravity venting is used, the maximum spacing between
vents shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) feet. The vent area to floor
area ratio shall not exceed 1:100 for ordinary hazards and 1:150 for light
hazards.
      2.   High Hazard: Roof venting requirements shall be determined by the
specific hazards involved.
      3.   Mechanical Systems: Mechanical smoke removal may be used in lieu of
gravity venting. A minimum of six (6) air changes per hour of the entire space
shall be provided.
      4.   Supply/Return Air: The mechanical smoke management system shall have
an adequate supply and/or return air source to allow the system to operate
properly.
      5.   Controls: The design of the controls for the systems, including
their location shall be approved by the Code Official.
   LL.   F-913.5.5 Add: Pump Flow Tests: Each fire pump shall be tested
annually by discharging to the atmosphere the required flow one hundred percent
(100%) rated capacity at one hundred percent (100%) of the rated pressure and
at one hundred fifty percent (150%) rated capacity at sixty-five percent (65%)
of the rated pressure. The test results shall be recorded and a copy of all
pump test information shall be submitted to the Code Official.
   MM.   1006.2.1.2 Add the following: Number and Locations of Exits: All
rooms, spaces, or buildings over 2,000 square feet in area shall have two
separate remote means of egress.
   NN.   1008.2 Illumination Required: Delete the Exceptions and add: Emergency
Lighting: Emergency power supplies from an independent, approved reliable
source (battery or automatic starting generator) shall be provided in all rooms
and spaces where two (2) or more exits are required, stairways, corridors,
access routes and other exit components.
   OO.   Chapter 56 Delete Chapter Add: Chapter 56 - Fireworks.
      1.   Scope: Sale, handling, and display of fireworks: Except as
hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, co-
partnership, or corporation to offer for sale, display, or expose for sale,
sell at retail, provide storage for, use or possess, or manufacture fireworks,
or explode any fireworks within the Village of Hodgkins or allow any such acts
on property owned by such person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation within
the Village, provided, however, the Code Official may issue a permit for
supervised public displays of fireworks, provided the applicant for such permit
shall comply with the regulations hereinafter established for the issuance of
such permit. The fire Code Official shall issue the fireworks permit.
      2.   Explosives: The storage of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited.
      3.   Seizure: The Code Official shall seize, take, remove or cause to be
removed, at the expense of the owner, all stocks of fireworks or explosives
offered or exposed for display or sale, stored, or held in violation of this
chapter.
      4.   Exceptions: Nothing contained in title 9 of the Village Code shall
be construed to prohibit the use of fireworks by railroads, public utilities,
public and private carriers, or other transportation agencies, for signal
purposes or illumination, or the sale or use of blank cartridges, for a show or
theater, or for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics or sports, or for
use by veteran or military organizations.
      5.   Requirements for Approved Displays: The supervised public display of
fireworks may be permitted in accordance with the following requirements.
         a.   The person in charge of a public fireworks display shall have a
copy of the permit required by this chapter in his/her possession.
         b.   Due to the hazardous nature of materials involved, no fireworks
shall be stored on location prior to set up and show time.
         c.   Personnel setting up and shooting the fireworks display shall be
experienced and professional shooters; a Pyrotechnic/Blasters license or
equivalent credentials are acceptable.
         d.   Adequate security shall be provided to keep all persons, except
personnel setting up and shooting the fireworks, at reasonably safe distance
from display area.
         e.   The supplier of the fireworks shall have a current State of
Illinois permit identified by number.
         f.   There shall be no trees or utility poles or any type of
obstruction within fifty (50) feet of the firing range and the firing range
shall be no less than two hundred (200) feet from railroads, highways, general
public, or any other structures, nor six hundred (600) feet of any hospital,
asylum, or infirmary.
         g.   The grass around any mortar shall be wet down continuously for a
minimum of eight (8) hours before firing, or to the satisfaction of the Code
Official. One (1) mortar loader shall be provided for each six (6) mortars.
         h.   The Fire District may be at the site of the firing with a minimum
of one (1) engine company.
         i.   Mortar holes are to be drilled in a minimum of three-quarters (3/
4) of the length of the mortar and dirt is to be packed around the mortar.
         j.   Mortars shall be two (2) feet apart with the minimum distance of
six (6) feet between mortars of different sizes.
         k.   The loader and shooter shall wear tight fitting non- combustible
clothing and shall not have consumed or used alcoholic beverages, drugs, or
controlled substances for twelve (12) hours before firing, nor be under the
influence thereof.
         l.   No firing shall take place if the wind exceeds twenty (20) miles
per hour and/or when fireworks are wet.
         m.   All aerial displays shall be kept in wooden boxes with self-
closing covers, the maximum size of which shall be thirty-six (36) inches by
twenty-four (24) inches by twenty-four (24) inches; the boxes shall be placed
two (2) inches off the ground and boxes shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet
from the mortars.
         n.   All shows shall be suspended for severe weather until deemed safe
by the Code Official or the Chief Administrator or his designee.
      6.   Recovery Responsibility: The supplier of the fireworks shall be
solely responsible for the recovery of all fireworks and aerial displays that
have not been fired.
      7.   Search for Unfired Displays: Recovery or the search for unfired
displays shall start immediately, or not later than sunrise.
      8.   Guards: The area of a misfired shell shall be guarded by the display
company at its cost from the time of the firing until discovery and removal of
the shell.
      9.   Recovery Cost: The cost of recovering the shells shall be solely the
responsibility of the fireworks supplier and/or dealer.
   PP.   5703.1.1 Add: Inside Storage of Fuel: Flammable and combustible fuel
stored inside a building shall be stored in approved metal containers with
self-closing lids and the total amount shall not exceed ten (10) gallons.
   QQ.   5703.5.1 Labeling Containers and Tanks Over Thirty (30) Gallons
Capacity: Any flammable or combustible liquid cans, containers, tanks, or
similar vessel having a capacity over thirty (30) gallons shall be labeled
using NFPA 704 2012 Edition, Standard System for the Identification of the Fire
Hazards of Materials.
      1.   Fuel Dispensing Inside the Building: No fuel dispensing is allowed
inside of a building.
      2.   Basements, Pits, and Sub-floor Work Areas: Basements, pits, and sub-
floor work areas are not permitted in new construction for service stations and
repair garages.
   RR.   5704.2
      1.   Add: Automotive Service Stations and other uses: Above-ground tanks
shall not be utilized for the storage of motor fuels at automotive service
stations which the public has access to. Above-ground tanks utilized for the
storage of motor fuels at automotive service stations to which the public does
not have access to shall be installed in accordance with this section and the
requirements for fire-resistant tanks or tanks in vaults specified in NFPA 30A
listed in Chapter 80.
      2.   Add: Barrier Protection: Physical barriers complying with Section F-
3205.4 shall be provided to protect the area where tanks, except those
installed in special enclosures, are located. Barriers shall be spaced at a
distance apart from each other and located at a distance away from the tanks so
that vehicles which are normally operating in the area of the tanks are
prevented from coming into contact with the tanks. Additional and/or upgraded
physical barrier protection shall be required where deemed necessary by the
Code Official
      3.   Access: Each tank and each special enclosure shall be surrounded by
a clear open space not less than three (3) feet (914mm) in width for
maintenance and inspection.
      4.   Add: Capacity Limits: Above-ground tanks containing combustible
liquids shall be limited to the following capacities. Tanks shall also be
installed in accordance with the requirements of this section.
      5.   Add: Class II Liquids - Tanks containing CLASS II liquids shall not
exceed 1,000 gallons individual capacity or 1,000 gallons aggregate capacity.
Tanks containing over 250 gallons of a CLASS II liquid shall be installed in
accordance with the requirements for fire-resistant tanks and tanks in vaults
specified in NFPA 30A listed in Chapter 44. Such tanks shall also be approved
and meet equivalent standards of those tanks which are listed as "Protected" as
defined by UL 2085. Tanks containing 250 gallons or less of a CLASS II liquid
shall be installed in accordance with the requirements for fire-resistant tanks
specified in NFPA 30A listed in Chapter 80. Such tanks shall also be approved,
and meet equivalent standards of those tanks which are listed as "Fire
Resistant" as defined by UL 2080.
      6.   Add: Class III A Liquids - Tanks containing CLASS III A liquids
shall not exceed 1,500 gallons individual capacity or 1,500 gallons aggregate
capacity. Tanks containing over 1,000 gallons of a CLASS III A liquid shall be
installed in accordance with the requirements for fire-resistant tanks and
tanks in vaults specified in NFPA 30A listed in Chapter 80. Such tanks shall
also be approved and meet equivalent standards of those tanks which are listed
as "Protected" as defined by UL 2085. Tanks containing 1,000 gallons or less of
a CLASS III A liquid shall be installed in accordance with the requirements for
fire- resistant tanks specified in NFPA 30A listed in Chapter 80. Such tanks
shall also be approved, and meet equivalent standards of those tanks which are
listed as "Fire Resistant" as defined by UL 2080.
      7.   Class III B Liquids - Tanks containing CLASS III B liquids shall not
exceed 2,000 gallons individual capacity or 2,000 gallons aggregate capacity.
Tanks containing over 1,000 gallons of a CLASS III B liquid shall be installed
in accordance with the requirements for fire-resistant tanks and tanks in
vaults specified in NFPA 30A listed in Chapter 80. Such tanks shall also be
approved and meet equivalent standards of those tanks which are listed as
"Protected" as defined by UL 2085. Tanks containing from 100 gallons up to
1,000 gallons of a CLASS III B liquid shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements for fire- resistant tanks specified in NFPA 30A listed in Chapter
80. Such tanks shall also be approved, and meet equivalent standards of those
tanks which are listed as "Fire Resistant" as defined by UL 2080.
      8.   Add: Overfill Prevention: Above-ground storage tanks shall be
equipped with overfill prevention equipment that will comply with one of the
following:
         a.   Automatically shut off the flow of liquid into the tank when it
is no more than ninety percent (90%) full.
         b.   Alert the transfer operator when the tank is no more than ninety
percent (90%) full by restricting the flow of liquid into the tank or
triggering a high-level alarm.
         c.   Other methods as approved by the Code Official.
      9.   Add: Distances to Buildings, Property Lines, etc.: The minimum
distance between above-ground tanks and other tanks, buildings, sewers, catch
basins, septic tanks, and property lines shall be thirty (30) feet. The minimum
distance between tanks located within the same aggregate tank area shall be
five (5) feet. Exception: Class III B liquids: The minimum distance between
above-ground tanks and other tanks, sewers, catch basins, septic tanks, and
property lines shall be five (5) feet. The minimum distance between tanks and
buildings and between tanks located within the same aggregate tank area shall
be three (3) feet.
      10.   Add: Tank Labeling: All tanks shall be labeled in accordance with
F-3203.2.2. In addition, the following shall be displayed on all visible tank
sides in 4" or taller letters clearly legible, and in a contrasting color to
the tank:
         a.   Either FLAMMABLE or COMBUSTIBLE (depending on contents
flashpoint)
         b.   NO SMOKING
         c.   The common name of the contents, i.e., WASTE MOTOR OIL
   SS.   Chapter 80 NFPA Change or add the standards with the edition listed.
NFPA 1 - 2015    NFPA 11 - 2016   NFPA 12 - 2015   NFPA 12A - 2015
NFPA 13 - 2016   NFPA 13D - 2016  NFPA 13R - 2016  NFPA 14 - 2016
NFPA 15 - 2017   NFPA 16 - 2015   NFPA 17 - 2013   NFPA 17A - 2013
NFPA 25 - 2017   NFPA 30 - 2015   NFPA 30A - 2015  NFPA 30B - 2015
NFPA 32 - 2016   NFPA 33 - 2016   NFPA 34 - 2015   NFPA 35 - 2011
NFPA 36 - 2013   NFPA 40 - 2016   NFPA 45 - 2015   NFPA 51 - 2013
NFPA 51A - 2012  NFPA 51B - 2014  NFPA 58 - 2017   NFPA 61 - 2017
NFPA 70 - 2014   NFPA 72 - 2016   NFPA 80 - 2016   NFPA 85 - 2015
NFPA 111 - 2016  NFPA 120 - 2015  NFPA 204 - 2015  NFPA 252 - 2012
NFPA 253 - 2015  NFPA 257 - 2012  NFPA 265 - 2013  NFPA 268 - 2012
NFPA 409 - 2016  NFPA 418 - 2016  NFPA 654 - 2017  NFPA 655 - 2012
NFPA 664 - 2017  NFPA 701 - 2015  NFPA 704 - 2017  NFPA 720 - 2015
NFPA 901 - 2016  NFPA 1123 - 2014 NFPA 1124 - 2013 NFPA 1142 - 2017
NFPA 1144 - 2013 NFPA 2001 - 2015                  
 
   TT.   Adopt appendices D.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-1-12: INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE, 2015 EDITION:
   A.   The following sections of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
are deleted, modified, amended, or added.
      1.   Section 101.1 Title. Insert Village of Hodgkins in space provided
for [name of jurisdiction].
      2.   Section 105.6.2 Fee Schedule. See Village fee schedule.
      3.   Section 105.6.3 Fee Refunds. Delete this section.
      4.   Section 107.4 Violation Penalties. Delete this section in its
entirety and replace with Section
9-5-1, of the Village Code.
      5.   Section 107.5 Stop Work Orders. Enter $200.00 in the space provided
for [Amount] and delete the last part of the sentence "or more than [amount]
dollars."
      6.   Section 108 Means of Appeal. Delete this section and add the
following: "The Village Board shall function as the Board of Appeals." All
appeals shall be submitted in writing no more than thirty (30) days after the
issuance of a violation notice.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-7-2: MONITORING OF FIRE ALARM AND DETECTION SYSTEMS:
   A.   A wireless radio receiver is required in all buildings requiring a fire
alarm system. All fire alarm systems shall be installed, maintained and
inspected by all building owners and occupants pursuant to the Fire Prevention
Ordinance, NFPA 72, NFPA 101, the International Building Code, the
International Fire Code and applicable Municipal codes and ordinances. The
Village shall be an all signal community. Owners and occupants of buildings
equipped with a fire alarm system shall use a licensed alarm company to cause
all fire, trouble and supervisory signals to be promptly conveyed via a remote
supervising stations at the Pleasantview Fire Protection District dispatch
facility. The Pleasantview Fire Protection District shall be notified of the
name and contact information with respect to the licensed alarm company and the
termination or change of any such licensed alarm company within seventy two
(72) hours from cancellation or disconnection. The Pleasantview Fire Protection
District will verify the fire alarm control panel and radio transmitter can
send the following signals: alarm, supervisory and trouble. These signals shall
be automatically transmitted to the remote supervising station in accordance
with International Building Code, International Fire Code, NFPA 72, NFPA 101
and the local ordinances and amendments. A burglar alarm system cannot be
connected to the fire alarm control unit.
   B.   Owners and occupants of all buildings containing a fire alarm system
shall provide annual and periodic testing in accordance with the provisions of
the currently adopted edition of NFPA 72 and the ordinances of the Village and
the Pleasantview Fire Protection District. The results of all required test
shall be recorded and shall be provided to the Pleasantview Fire Protection
District as part of the annual fire alarm system compliance verification. (Ord.
19-05, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 8
FAIR HOUSING POLICY
SECTION:
9-8-1: Declaration Of Policy
9-8-2: Construction
9-8-3: Severability
9-8-4: Definitions
9-8-5: Prohibited Acts General
9-8-6: Prohibited Acts Handicapped Housing
9-8-7: Prohibited Acts Financial
9-8-8: Coverage And Exemptions
9-8-9: Implementation
9-8-10: Administration
9-8-11: Complaints, Conciliation, Hearing Procedures
9-8-12: Penalty/Fines; Remedies/Relief
9-8-13: Appeal Procedures
9-8-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
In the exercise of its power to regulate for the protection of the public
health, safety, morals, and welfare, it is declared to be the public policy of
this Municipality to assure fair housing and freedom from discrimination
throughout the community, to protect the community from the effects of
residential segregation by race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental
handicap, familial status or national origin, age, ancestry, sexual
orientation, marital status, parental status, military discharge status, source
of income, gender identity, housing status and protected classes and to secure
to its citizens the economic, social, and professional benefits of living in a
stable, integrated society. Complaints related to fair housing are referenced
to the Building Committee of the Village of Hodgkins, as outlined in the Fair
Housing Ordinance. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-2: CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms, and
shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated and the
special purposes of the particular provisions involved. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-3: SEVERABILITY:
If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of this
chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this chapter not specifically included in said judgment. If any court of
competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application of any provision
of this chapter to any person or circumstance, such judgment shall not affect
the application of said provision to any other person or circumstance not
specifically included in said judgment. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
ACCESSIBLE: When used with respect to the public and common use areas of a
building containing multifamily dwellings, means that the public or common use
areas of the building can be approached, entered, and used by individuals with
physical handicaps.
   ACCESSIBLE ROUTE: Means a continuous unobstructed path connecting accessible
elements and spaces in a building or within a site that can be negotiated by a
person with a severe disability using a wheelchair and that is also safe for
and usable by people with other disabilities. A route that complies with the
appropriate requirements of the American National Standards Institute's ICC
A117.1-2009 or a comparable standard is an "accessible route".
   ADJUDICATIVE AGENCY: For purposes of this chapter, shall mean the Village
Zoning Board of Appeals.
   ADMINISTERING AGENCY: For purposes of this chapter, shall mean the Village
Building Committee.
   ADMINISTRATOR: For purposes of this chapter, shall mean the Village Clerk.
   AFFIRMATIVE MARKETING: Means attempting to attract all prospective buyers
and renters with special efforts to attract persons of a race or national
origin least likely to apply through the normal operations of the market place.
   AGGRIEVED PARTY/PERSON: Includes any person who claims to have been injured
by a discriminatory housing practice or believes that he or she will be injured
by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
   BOARD: Means the Fair Housing Review Board.
   BROKER: Includes any person authorized to perform an action on behalf of
another person regarding any matter related to the sale or rental of dwellings,
including offers, solicitations or contracts and the administration of matters
regarding such offers, solicitations or contracts or any residential real
estate-related transactions.
   BUILDING: Means a structure, facility, or portion thereof that contains or
serves one or more dwelling units.
   BUILDING ENTRANCE ON AN ACCESSIBLE ROUTE: Means an accessible entrance to a
building that is connected by an accessible route to public transportation
stops, to accessible parking and passenger loading zones, or to public streets
or sidewalks, if available.
   CHARGE: Means an allegation contained in a complaint.
   CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATION: Includes and shall be limited to only those specific
acts set forth in sections
9-8-5,
9-8-6, and
 9-8-7 of this chapter.
   COMMISSION: Means the Human Relations Commission.
   COMMON USE AREAS: Means rooms, spaces, or elements inside or outside of a
building that are made available for the use of residents of a building or the
guests thereof. These areas include hallways, lounges, lobbies, laundry rooms,
refuse rooms, mail rooms, recreational areas and passageways among and between
buildings.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: Means a group home or specialized residential care home
serving unrelated persons with disabilities.
   COMPLAINANT: Means a party/person, including the Administering Agency, who
files a complaint.
   COMPLAINT: Means the document filed by a complainant with the Administering
Agency.
   CONCILIATION: Means the attempted resolution of issues raised by a
complaint, or the investigation of such charge, through informal negotiations
involving the aggrieved party, the respondent and the Administering Agency.
   CONCILIATION AGREEMENT: Means a written agreement setting forth the
resolution of the issues in conciliation.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Means any drug or other substance, or immediate
precursor included in the definition in section 102 of the Controlled
Substances Act (21 USC 802).
   COVERED MULTIFAMILY DWELLING: Means a building consisting of four (4) or
more units if such buildings have one or more elevators; and ground floor units
in other buildings consisting of four (4) or more units.
   DISCRIMINATE: Means to treat any person differently from others because of
race, color, religion, creed, national origin, age, sex, ancestry, marital
status, physical or mental handicap, familial status or unfavorable military
discharge.
   DWELLING: Means any building structure or portion thereof which is occupied
as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more
families or unrelated individuals, and any vacant land which offered for sale
or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building,
structure or portion thereof.
   ELDERLY PERSON: Means a person fifty five (55) years of age or older.
   ENTRANCE: Means any access point to a building or portion of a building used
by residents for the purpose of entering.
   EXTERIOR: Means all areas of the premises outside of an individual dwelling
unit.
   FAMILIAL STATUS: Means one or more individuals who have not attained the age
of eighteen (18) years being domiciled with:
   A.   A parent or a person having legal custody of such individual or
individuals;
   B.   The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with
the written permission of such parent or other person; or
   C.   Persons who are pregnant or in the process of securing legal custody of
any individual who has not attained the age of eighteen (18).
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Means any bank, credit union, insurance company,
mortgage banking company, savings and loan association, or other entity or
organization which makes or purchases loans or provides other financial
assistance and which operates or has a place of business in the State of
Illinois.
   HANDICAP: Means, with respect to a person, a physical or mental impairment
which substantially limits one or more major life activities, a record of such
an impairment, or being regarded as having such an impairment, including HIV
infected individuals, and including people suffering from impairments as a
result of prior use or addiction to an illegal controlled substance.
   HEARING: Means that part of an adjudicative proceeding that involves the
submission of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission of
briefs and oral arguments on the evidence and applicable law.
   HEARING AGENCY: Means the agency designated by the Corporate Authorities of
the Municipality to conduct hearings on, and adjudicate the question of,
ordinance violations.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any improved or unimproved real property or
part thereof which is used or occupied or is intended, arranged or designed to
be used or occupied as the home or residence of one or more individuals.
   HOUSING FOR OLDER PERSONS: Means:
   A.   All housing that is provided under State and Federal programs for
elderly persons as defined by the specific programs, providing U.S. HUD
approval has been secured;
   B.   Housing that is "intended for, and solely occupied by persons sixty two
(62) years of age or older";
   C.   Communities in which at least eighty percent (80%) of all units are
occupied by one person fifty five (55) years of age or older, if the existence
of significant facilities and services specifically designed to meet the
physical and social needs of older persons can be documented.
   ICC A117.1-2009: Means the 2009 edition of the ICC Standard for buildings
and facilities providing accessibility and usability for physically handicapped
people.
   INTERIOR: Means the spaces, parts, components or elements of an individual
dwelling unit.
   LEASE: Includes any sublease, assignment, or rental and any contract to
enter into any of the foregoing.
   LOAN: Includes, but is not limited to, the providing of funds, for
consideration, which are:
   A.   Sought for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving,
repairing, or maintaining a housing accommodation;
   B.   Sought for any commercial or industrial purposes; or
   C.   Secured by residential real estate.
   MARITAL STATUS: Means the legal status of being married, single, separated,
divorced, or widowed.
   MODIFICATION: Means any change to the public or common use areas of a
building or any change to a dwelling unit.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN: Means the place in which a person or one of his or her
ancestors was born.
   OFFER: Means and includes every attempt by means of written or oral
communications to present for acceptance or rejection, to hold out or proffer,
to make a proposal to or to exhibit real estate that may be taken or received
with the intention of ultimately entering a real estate transaction.
   OWNER: Means any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in, any real estate, or who holds legal or equitable title
to shares of, or any beneficial interest in, an equity which owns any real
estate.
   PANIC PEDDLING: Means for profit, to induce or attempt to induce a person to
sell or rent a dwelling by representation regarding the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, national origin, or handicap.
   PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, or
trustees in cases under title 11 of the United States Code.
   PERSON IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS: Means any person
who:
   A.   Within the preceding twelve (12) months has participated as principal
in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling
or any interest therein;
   B.   Within the preceding twelve (12) months, has participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or interest therein;
or
   C.   Is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy by, or
occupied by, five (5) or more families.
   PHYSICAL OR MENTAL IMPAIRMENT: Includes:
   A.   Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfiguration, or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genito-urinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
   B.   Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation,
organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
disabilities.
   PREMISES: Means the interior or exterior spaces, parts, components or
elements of a building, including individual dwelling units and the public and
common use areas of a building.
   PROTECTED CLASSES: Includes all persons legally protected against
discrimination.
   PUBLIC CONTRACT: Includes every contract to which the State of Illinois, any
of its political subdivisions or any Municipal corporation is a party.
   PUBLIC USE AREAS: Means interior or exterior rooms or spaces of a building
that are made available to the general public. Public use may be provided at a
building that is privately or publicly owned.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: Means the purchase, sale or fee or equitable title
to, or beneficial interest in, or rental or lease of, any real property; or an
option to do any of the foregoing, or any negotiation, listing, contract, or
agreement in connection therewith. Real estate transaction also includes the
brokering or appraising of residential real property and the making or
purchasing of loans or providing other financial assistance for purchasing,
constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling or secured by
residential real estate.
   REAL PROPERTY: Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands,
tenements, lease holds, interests in real estate cooperatives, condominiums,
and hereditament, corporeal and incorporeal, or any interest therein.
   RELIGION: Includes all aspects of religious observance and practice, as well
as, belief; and all aspects of religious non- observance, non-practice and non-
belief.
   RESPONDENT: Means:
   A.   The person or other entity against whom a discriminatory housing
practice has been alleged in a complaint;
   B.   Any other person or entity identified in the course of investigation
and notified as required under section
9-8-11 of this chapter.
   SEX: Means the status of being male or female.
   SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Means any communication by or on behalf of a real
estate agent with the owner or occupant of a dwelling:
   A.   Which is intended to induce the sale or rental of such dwelling;
   B.   Which is intended to offer or promote services in connection with the
sale, rental or listing of such dwelling; and
   C.   Which is carried out by means of:
1. In-person contacts at the dwelling;
2. Written material mailed or delivered directly to the dwelling, such as
direct mail, leaflets or pamphlets; or
3. Telephone contact with owners or occupants of the dwelling.
For purposes of this chapter, the term "solicit" or "solicitation" shall not
refer to communication carried out by means of print or electronic media of
general circulation, such as a newspaper, radio, television, or the yellow
pages.
   STEERING: Means influencing or attempting to influence by words or acts the
choice or location of housing of a prospective purchaser, occupant, or tenant,
in connection with viewing, buying, leasing, or occupying real estate based on
race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, or handicap so as
to limit choice or promote or maintain segregation.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and to otherwise grant for
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
   VARYING TERMS: Includes, but is not limited to, the following practices:
   A.   Requiring a greater down payment than is usual for a particular type of
a loan involved.
   B.   Requiring a shorter period of amortization than is usual for the
particular type of loan involved.
   C.   Charging a higher interest rate than usual for the particular type of
loan involved.
   D.   Under-appraising of real estate or other items of property offered as
security. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-5: PROHIBITED ACTS GENERAL:
   A.   Discriminatory Terms: Discriminate against any person in the terms,
conditions, or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision
of services or facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color,
religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national
origin, age, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status,
military discharge status, source of income, gender identity, housing status,
protected classes, including HIV infected individuals, and people suffering
from impairments as a result of prior use or addiction to an illegal controlled
substance. Complaints related to fair housing are referenced to the Building
Committee of the Village of Hodgkins, as outlined in this chapter.
   B.   Refusal To Negotiate, Deal, Sell Or Rent: Refuse to sell or rent, after
the making of a bona fide offer, or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or
rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny a dwelling to any person
because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, or national origin.
   C.   Withholding Dwellings: Represent to any person because of race, color,
religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national origin
that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or rental when such
dwelling is in fact available.
   D.   Advertisements, Signs, Notices: Make, print, circulate, or publish, or
cause to be made, printed, circulated, or published, any written or oral
notice, statement, or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or
national origin or an intention to make such preference, limitation, or
discrimination. Discriminatory notices, statements and advertisements include,
but are not limited to:
      1.   Using words, phrases, photographs, illustrations, symbols, or forms
which convey that dwellings are available or not available to a particular
group of persons because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental
handicap, familial status, or national origin.
      2.   Expressing to agents, brokers, employees, prospective sellers or
renters or any other persons a preference for or limitation on any purchaser or
renter because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap,
familial status, or national origin of such persons.
      3.   Selecting media or locations for advertising the sale or rental of
dwellings which deny particular segments of the housing market information
about housing opportunities because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or
mental handicap, familial status, or national origin.
      4.   Refusing to publish advertising for the sale or rental of dwellings,
or requiring different charges or terms for such advertising because of race,
color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
   E.   Panic Peddling: For profit, to induce or attempt to induce a person to
sell or rent a dwelling by representation regarding the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color,
religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
Prohibited actions under this section include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Engaging for profit in conduct (including uninvited solicitations
for listings) which conveys to a person that a neighborhood is undergoing or is
about to undergo a change in the race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental
handicap, familial status, or national origin of persons residing in it, in
order to encourage persons to offer a dwelling for sale or rental.
      2.   Encouraging, for profit, any person to sell or rent a dwelling
through assertions that the entry or prospective entry of persons of a
particular race, color, religion, sex, familial status, or national origin or
with handicaps can or will result in undesirable consequences for the project,
neighborhood or community, such as a lowering of property values, an increase
in criminal or antisocial behavior, or a decline in the quality of schools or
other services or facilities.
   F.   Lending: Discriminate in connection with borrowing or lending money,
guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise financing a real estate
transaction on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental
handicap, familial status, or national origin.
   G.   Lending Terms: Deny or delay the processing of a loan or other
financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, construction, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling; or
discriminate in the fixing of that amount, interest rate, duration, or other
terms or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance because of the
race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or
national origin of such person.
   H.   Appraising/Insurance: Discriminate in the appraisal of the value of
real estate or in the sale of insurance in connection with a real estate
transaction because of the race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental
handicap, familial status, or national origin of the person.
   I.   Varying Rents/Sale Price: Impose different sale prices or rental
charges for the sale or rental of a dwelling upon any person because of race,
color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
   J.   Qualification Criteria: Use different qualification criteria or
applications, or sale or rental standards or procedures, such as income
standards, application requirements, application fees, credit analysis or sale
or rental approval procedures or other requirements, because of race, color,
religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national
origin.
   K.   Eviction: Evict tenants because of their race, color, religion, sex,
handicap, familial status, or national origin, or because of the race, color,
religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national origin
of a tenant's guest.
   L.   Listings: Enter into a listing agreement which discriminates against
any person because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap,
familial status, or national origin.
   M.   Discrimination In Membership Or Services: Deny any person access to or
membership or participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate
brokers' organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting dwellings or to discriminate against any
person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or participation
on account of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, or national origin.
   N.   Steering (Restriction Of Choice): Restrict or attempt to restrict,
because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial
status, or national origin, the choices of a person by words or acts in
connection with buying or renting a dwelling so as to perpetuate, or tend to
perpetuate, segregated housing patterns, or to discourage or obstruct
integrated housing.
Prohibited actions under this section, which are generally referred to as
unlawful steering practices, include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Discouraging any person from inspecting, purchasing or renting a
dwelling because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap,
familial status, or national origin; or because of the race, color, religion,
sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national origin of
persons in a community, neighborhood, or development, so as to perpetuate, or
tend to perpetuate, segregated housing patterns, or to discourage or obstruct
integrated housing.
      2.   Discouraging the purchase or rental of a dwelling because of race,
color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national
origin by exaggerating drawbacks or failing to inform any person of desirable
features of a dwelling or of a community, neighborhood, or development, so as
to perpetuate, or tend to perpetuate, segregated housing patterns, or to
discourage or obstruct integrated housing.
      3.   Communicating to any prospective purchaser that he or she would not
be comfortable or compatible with existing residents of a community,
neighborhood or development because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or
mental handicap, familial status, or national origin, so as to perpetuate, or
tend to perpetuate, segregated housing patterns, or to discourage or obstruct
integrated housing.
      4.   Assigning any person to a particular section of a community,
neighborhood, or development, or to a particular floor of a building, because
of race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or
national origin, so as to perpetuate, or tend to perpetuate, segregated housing
patterns, or to discourage or obstruct integrated housing.
      5.   Failing to inform any person of available housing opportunities in a
particular section of a community, neighborhood or development, or in a
particular floor of a building, because of race, color, religion, sex, familial
status, national origin, or handicap, so as to perpetuate, or tend to
perpetuate, segregated housing patterns or to discourage or obstruct integrated
housing.
   O.   Participation: Act or undertake to act as a real estate broker, sales,
ad, or agent with respect to any dwelling, the disposition of which requires
said person to participate in discrimination.
   P.   Restrictions: Perform any act of discrimination with the intention or
effect of restricting or limiting the housing choice of any person.
   Q.   Aiding And Abetting: Aid or abet acts performed in violation of this
chapter.
   R.   Interference, Coercion, Or Intimidation: Coerce, intimidate, threaten,
or interfere with any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of
his having exercised or enjoyed, or on account of his having aided or
encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of any right granted
or protected by this title.
   S.   Solicitation: Solicit any owner to sell or rent or list residential
property at any time after such person has notice that such owner does not
desire to sell, rent, or list such residential property. For the purposes of
this subsection, notice must be provided as follows:
      1.   The notice may be given by the owner personally or by a third party
in the owner's name, either in the form of an individual notice or a list,
provided it complies with subsection S2 of this section.
      2.   Such notice shall be explicit as to whether each owner on the notice
seeks to avoid both solicitation for listing and sale, or only for listing, or
only for sale, as well as, the period of time for which any avoidance is
desired. The notice shall be dated and either of the following shall apply:
         a.   Each owner shall have signed the notice; or
         b.   The person or entity preparing the notice shall provide an
accompanying affidavit to the effect that all the names on the notice are, in
fact, genuine as to the identity of the persons listed and that such persons
have requested not to be solicited as indicated.
      3.   The individual notice or notice in the form of a list with the
accompanying affidavit shall be served personally or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-6: PROHIBITED ACTS HANDICAPPED HOUSING:
In addition to those prohibited acts identified in sections
9-8-5 and
9-8-7 of this chapter, the following shall also be unlawful.
   A.   Discrimination Against The Handicapped:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection with such dwelling, because of a handicap of:
         a.   The buyer or renter;
         b.   A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling
after it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
         c.   Any person associated with that person.
      2.   To make an inquiry to determine whether an applicant for a dwelling;
a person intending to reside in that dwelling after it is sold, rented, or made
available or any person associated with that person has a handicap, or to make
inquiry as to the nature or severity of a handicap of such a person.
      3.   However, this section does not prohibit the following inquiries,
provided these inquiries are made of all applicants, whether or not they have
handicaps:
         a.   Inquiry into the applicant's ability to meet the requirements of
ownership or tenancy.
         b.   Inquiry to determine whether an applicant is qualified for a
dwelling available only to persons with handicaps or to persons with a
particular type of handicap.
         c.   Inquiry to determine whether an applicant for a dwelling is
qualified for a priority available to persons with handicaps or to persons with
a particular type of handicap.
         d.   Inquiry to determine whether an applicant for a dwelling is a
current illegal abuser or addict of a controlled substance.
         e.   Inquiry to determine whether an applicant has been convicted of
the illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance.
      4.   Nothing in this section requires that a dwelling be made available
to an individual whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health
or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
physical damage to the property of others.
   B.   Unit Modification: To refuse to permit, at the expense of the
handicapped person, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or
to be occupied by such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford
such person full enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a
rental, the landlord may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission
for a modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the
premises to the condition that existed before the modifications, reasonable
wear and tear excepted.
   C.   Rules And Policies: To refuse to make reasonable accommodations in
rules, policies, practices, or services, when such accommodations may be
necessary to afford such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy the
dwelling, including public and common use areas.
   D.   New Construction: To fail to design and construct dwellings after March
13, 1991 in such a manner that:
      1.   The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are readily
accessible to and usable by a handicapped person;
      2.   All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all premises
within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by handicapped
persons in wheelchairs; and
      3.   All premises within such dwellings contain the following features of
adaptive design:
         a.   An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
         b.   Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
         c.   Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow later installation of
grab bars; and
         d.   Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
   E.   Guide/Support Dogs: To refuse to sell or rent because a person has a
guide, hearing or support dog. It is a civil rights violation for the owner or
agent of any housing accommodation to:
      1.   Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny property to any blind, hearing impaired, or physically handicapped person
because he has a guide, hearing or support dog; or
      2.   Discriminate against any blind, hearing impaired, or physically
handicapped person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of sale or rental
property, or in the provision of services or facilities in connection
therewith, because he has a guide, hearing or support dog; or
      3.   Require, because a blind, hearing impaired, or physically
handicapped person has a guide, hearing or support dog, an extra charge in a
lease, rental agreement, or contract of purchase or sale, other than for actual
damage done to the premises by the dog. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-7: PROHIBITED ACTS FINANCIAL:
   A.   In addition to those prohibited acts identified in sections
 9-8-5 and
 9-8-6 of this chapter, it shall be a violation for any financial institution,
on the grounds of unlawful discrimination to:
      1.   Deny any person any of the services normally offered by such an
institution;
      2.   Provide any person with any service which is different from, or
provided in a different manner than, that which is provided to other persons
similarly situated;
      3.   Deny or vary the terms of a loan because of race, color, religion,
sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national origin;
      4.   Deny or vary the terms of a loan on the basis that a specific parcel
of real estate offered as security is located in a specific geographical area;
      5.   Deny or vary the terms of a loan without having considered all of
the regular and dependable income of each person who would be liable for
repayment of the loan;
      6.   Utilize lending standards that have no economic basis;
      7.   Refuse to purchase or impose different terms or conditions on loans
or other debts or securities which support the purchase, construction,
improvement, repair or maintenance of a dwelling, or which are secured by
residential real estate because of race, color, religion, sex, physical or
mental handicap, familial status, or national origin. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-8: COVERAGE AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this title, other than the prohibition against
discriminatory advertising, shall:
      1.   Apply to the following:
         a.   The rental, lease, or occupancy of a room in an owner-occupied
single family dwelling, provided the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The owner does not own or have any interest in more than
three (3) single family houses at any one time;
            (2)   The house is sold or rented without the use of a real estate
broker, agent or salesperson or the facilities of any person in the person of
selling or renting dwellings.
         b.   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living
independently of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one
of such living quarters as his or her residence.
      2.   Prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or any
non-profit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by
or in conjunction with a religious organization or society from limiting the
sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than
commercial purposes to persons of the same religion, or from giving preference
to such persons, unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of
race, color, religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or
national origin;
      3.   Prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an
incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or
operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or
occupancy of such lodgings to its members and their guests or from giving
preference to its members;
      4.   Prohibit the rental or sale of a dwelling on the basis of age or
handicap when such dwelling is authorized, approved, financed, or subsidized in
whole or in part by a unit of State, local, or Federal government;
      5.   Limit the applicability of any reasonable local, State, or Federal
restrictions regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a
dwelling;
      6.   Require the rental or sale of a unit to any person convicted of the
illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance;
      7.   With regard to discrimination based on familial status apply with
respect to housing for elderly persons as defined in section
9-8-4 of this chapter;
      8.   Apply to persons engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals of
real property from taking into consideration factors other than those based on
unlawful discrimination or familial status in furnishing appraisals;
      9.   Prohibit financial institutions from considering sound underwriting
practices in contemplation of any loan to any person. Such practices shall
include the following:
         a.   The willingness and the financial ability of the borrower to
repay the loan.
         b.   The market value of any real estate or other item of property
proposed as security for any loan.
         c.   Diversification of the financial institution's investment
portfolio.
      10.   Prohibit a person engaged in the business of furnishing appraisals
of real property from taking into consideration factors other than race, creed,
age, ancestry, unfavorable military discharge, color, religion, sex, handicap,
familial status, or national origin. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-9: IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   Creation Of A Human Relations Commission: There is hereby created a
Human Relations Commission which shall consist of the members of the Village
Building Committee.
   B.   General Duties Of A Human Relations Commission: The commission shall
have and exercise the power:
      1.   To act to eliminate discriminatory housing practices;
      2.   To act to assure to persons living or desiring to live in the
Municipality, or in any particular dwelling, the opportunity to purchase,
lease, or rent a dwelling without discrimination because of race, color,
religion, sex, physical or mental handicap, familial status, or national
origin;
      3.   To engage in such recruitment, research, and public communication
and to create such advisory councils as may be authorized to effectuate the
purposes of this chapter;
      4.   To coordinate its activities with Federal and State agencies in
conformity with this chapter;
      5.   To gather and provide for the exchange of information relative to
the provisions of this chapter among real estate brokers and salesmen, lenders,
developers, employers, Municipal officials, and community groups within and
without the Municipality.
   C.   Enforcement Duties Of A Human Relations Commission: The administrative
responsibilities for this chapter shall be in the Human Relations Commission.
The commission shall have and exercise, in addition to the general duties cited
in subsection B of this section, with respect to all dwellings and persons
subject to this chapter, the power:
      1.   To issue, receive, initiate, and investigate complaints charging
discrimination in housing. Any complaint initiated by the commission shall be
in writing and signed by the Chairman of the commission and shall state such
detail as to substantially apprise any properly concerned party as to the time,
place, and facts surrounding the charged violation of this chapter;
      2.   To seek conciliation with respect to any such complaint, and, if
conciliation fails, to refer such complaint to the Fair Housing Review Board
where the process will proceed as set forth in section
9-8-11 of this chapter.
      3.   To render from time to time, but not less than every twelve (12)
months, a written report to Municipal officials of its activities and
recommendations with respect to fair housing practices, which written report
shall be made public after submission to the President and Trustees; and
      4.   To adopt, after approval of the President and Trustees, such rules
and regulations as may be necessary or desirable to carry out the purpose of
this chapter. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-10: ADMINISTRATION:
The Administering Agency, Village Manager, or President and Trustees, shall
appoint an Administrator. The Administrator shall have such duties,
responsibilities, and powers as are necessary for the implementation of this
chapter and additionally as may be provided by the Administering Agency or
President and Trustees, including the issuing, initiation, receipt, and due
processing of complaints. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-11: COMPLAINTS, CONCILIATION, HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Complaint:
      1.   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of any provision
of this chapter may file with the Administering Agency/Administrator a written
verified complaint setting forth his or her grievance within one year after the
date of the alleged violation. The complaint shall state, on a printed form
provided by the Administering Agency, such detail as to substantially apprise
any party properly concerned as to the time, place, and facts surrounding the
alleged violation of this chapter.
      2.   A complaint may be filed against any person alleged to be engaged,
to have engaged, or about to engage in a discriminatory housing practice.
      3.   A complaint may also be filed against any person who directs or
controls, or has the right to direct or control, the conduct of another person
with respect to any aspect of the sale, rental, advertising, or financing of
dwellings or the provision of brokerage services relating to the sale or rental
of dwellings if that other person, acting within the scope of his or her
authority as employee or agent of the directing or controlling person, is
engaged, has engaged, or is about to engage, in a discriminatory housing
practice.
   B.   Notice Of Complaint: Within ten (10) calendar days after a complaint
has been received or initiated by the Administering Agency or the
Administrator, the Administering Agency shall serve or cause to be served,
either in person or by certified mail, a copy of said complaint on the person
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, hereinafter referred to as the
"respondent".
The Administrator shall so, within ten (10) calendar days of the date on which
the complaint was filed, send written notice to the complainant informing the
complainant of his or her option to file a complaint with U.S. HUD, the
Illinois Human Rights Department, Federal or State courts, including the dates
within which the complainant may exercise such options.
   C.   Injunctive Temporary Relief:
      1.   At any time after a complaint is filed and determined to constitute
a violation of this chapter, the Administering Agency may petition the
appropriate court for temporary relief, pending final determination of the
proceedings under this chapter, including an order or decree restraining the
respondent from doing or causing any act which would render ineffectual a
recommendation with respect to the complaint. Such petition shall contain a
certification by the Administering Agency/Administrator that the particular
matter presents exceptional circumstances in which irreparable injury will
result from a violation of this chapter in the absence of temporary relief.
      2.   The petition shall be filed in the Circuit Court for the county in
which the respondent resides or transacts business or in which the alleged
violation took place.
      3.   When the petition is based upon a civil rights violation as defined
in this chapter, any relief or restraining order entered by the court shall not
exceed five (5) days unless:
         a.   A longer period is agreed to by the respondent; or
         b.   The court finds that there is substantial evidence to demonstrate
that the respondent has engaged in violations of this chapter.
   D.   Respondent Response: The respondent shall serve a verified copy of his
or her response to all allegations contained in the complaint within ten (10)
calendar days of the date on which respondent was served a copy of the
complaint.
The Administrator shall issue a notice of default directed to any respondent
who fails to file a verified response to a complaint within ten (10) calendar
days of the date on which the complainant was served, unless the respondent can
demonstrate good cause as to why such notice should not be issued.
   E.   Complainant Response: Within ten (10) calendar days of the date he
receives the respondent's response, the complainant may file his reply to said
response. If he chooses to file a reply, the complainant shall serve a copy of
said reply on the respondent or his representative. A party shall have the
right to supplement his response or reply at any time that the investigation of
the complaint is pending.
   F.   Investigation:
      1.   The Administering Agency shall order a prompt investigation of the
complaint, completing such an investigation within one hundred (100) calendar
days after the filing of the complaint.
      2.   Unless it is impossible to do so, upon review of the report and
within one hundred (100) calendar days after the filing of the complaint, the
Administrator shall determine whether there is substantial evidence that the
alleged ordinance violation has been committed or is about to be committed.
      3.   If the Administering Agency is unable to make the determination
within one hundred (100) calendar days after the filing of the complaint, the
Administrator shall notify the complainant and respondent in writing of the
reasons for not doing so.
      4.   If the Administering Agency determines that there is no substantial
evidence, the complaint shall be dismissed and the complainant notified that he
or she may seek review of the dismissal order before the Adjudicative Agency.
The complainant shall have thirty (30) calendar days from receipt of notice to
file a request for review by the Adjudicative Agency. The Adjudicative Agency
shall:
         a.   Uphold the finding of insubstantial evidence, or
         b.   Reverse the finding of insubstantial evidence and remand the
complaint to the Administering Agency for conciliation.
      5.   If the Administering Agency determines that there is substantial
evidence it shall immediately notify the parties and schedule a conciliation
meeting.
   G.   Conciliation:
      1.   During the period beginning with the filing of a complaint and
ending with a dismissal or a referral to the Adjudicative Agency, the
Administering Agency or Administrator shall, to the extent feasible, engage in
conciliation with respect to such complaint.
      2.   If the Administrator determines:
         a.   That conciliation is feasible, the complainant and respondent
shall be notified of the time and place of the conciliation meeting by
registered or certified mail at least seven (7) calendar days prior thereto and
both parties shall appear at the meeting in person or by attorney; or
         b.   That attempts at conciliation would not further the objectives of
this chapter, or that the complaint cannot be resolved by conciliation, the
Administrator shall report and transfer the complaint and filings to the
Adjudicative Agency.
      3.   The Administrator shall attempt by all accepted methods of
conciliation and lawful persuasion to resolve the grievance delineated in the
complaint.
      4.   Nothing occurring at the conciliation meeting shall be made public
or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding for the purpose of proving a
violation under this chapter unless the complainant and respondent agree in
writing that such disclosure be made.
      5.   An agreement arising out of such conciliation shall be treated as a
settlement pursuant to subsection J of this section.
      6.   A conciliation may provide for finding arbitration of the dispute
arising from a complaint. Any such arbitration that results from a conciliation
agreement may award relief as provided for in this chapter.
   H.   Hearing On Complaint: Within fifteen (15) days of receiving a complaint
from the Administering Agency, the Adjudicative Agency shall, upon due and
reasonable notice to all parties, schedule a public hearing on the complaint.
The public hearing shall be scheduled no sooner than thirty (30) days from the
date of the notice, nor later than sixty (60) days from the date of the notice.
All parties shall be entitled to be represented by legal counsel, and shall
have the right to call witnesses in their own behalf and to cross-examine
witnesses. All parties to the proceedings may apply to the Adjudicative Agency
to have subpoenas issued in the name of the Adjudicative Agency. Testimony
taken at the conference/hearing shall be under oath or affirmation and a
transcript shall be made and filed in the Office of the Administering Agency/
Administrator.
   I.   Report/Decision:
      1.   The Adjudicative Agency shall issue a written report within thirty
(30) days of the conclusion of the public hearing. The report/decision shall
include a summary of the testimony, exhibits admitted into evidence, and a
finding of whether a violation of this chapter was proven by a preponderance of
the evidence. The report/decision shall also contain a recommendation/order of
the relief that may include one or more of the elements provided for in section
9-8-12 of this chapter.
      2.   If the Administering Agency determines that a respondent has not
complied in a timely manner with the decision, the Administrative Agency shall
refer the matter to the Municipal Attorney who shall seek judicial enforcement
of the decision.
   J.   Settlement:
      1.   Circumstances: A settlement of any complaint may be effected at any
time prior to a decision/report by the Adjudicative Agency upon agreement of
the parties and the approval of the Adjudicative Agency.
      2.   Settlement: Each settlement agreement shall be made public unless
the complainant and respondent otherwise agree and the Administrator determines
that disclosure is not required to further the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Form: Settlements of complaints prior to the issuing of a report/
decision shall be issued in writing by the Administrator, signed by the
parties, and submitted by the Administrator to the Adjudicative Agency.
      4.   Settlement Violation: When either party alleges that a settlement
order has been violated, the Administrator shall conduct an investigation into
the matter. If substantial evidence demonstrates that a settlement has been
violated, the Administrator shall refer the matter to the Municipal Attorney
for enforcement in the Circuit Court in which the respondent or complainant
resides or transacts business or in which the alleged violation took place.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-12: PENALTY/FINES; REMEDIES/RELIEF:
   A.   Penalty/Fines: Any person violating any provision of this chapter may
be directed to:
      1.   Cease and desist from any violation of this chapter;
      2.   Pay a civil penalty to vindicate the public interest:
         a.   In an amount not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) if
the respondent has not been adjudged to have committed any prior violations of
any provision of this chapter;
         b.   In an amount not exceeding twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) if the respondent has been adjudged to have committed one other
violation of this chapter during the 5-year period prior to the filing date of
the current complaint;
         c.   In an amount not exceeding fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) if
the respondent has been adjudged to have committed two (2) or more violations
of this chapter during the 7-year period prior to the filing date of the
current complaint.
   B.   Remedies/Relief: In addition to the penalties and fines delineated in
subsection A of this section, the Adjudicative Agency may undertake additional
actions, including but not limited to, the following.
      1.   Directing the respondent to pay compensatory/actual damages
(including damages to compensate for mental anguish), punitive damages,
attorney fees and costs.
      2.   Directing the respondent to provide other equitable relief
including, but not limited to, access to the dwelling at issue, or to a
comparable dwelling, the provision of services or facilities in connection with
a dwelling, or other specific relief.
      3.   Directing the respondent to provide other injunctive relief
appropriate to the elimination of discriminatory housing practices affecting
the aggrieved person or other persons.
      4.   Directing the Administrator to send copies of the decision/report to
the Department of Professional Registration of the State and recommend
appropriate disciplinary action, including, where appropriate, the suspension
or revocation of the license of the respondent.
      5.   Further, any persons violating any provision of this chapter may
also be required to undertake actions to prevent future discriminatory housing
practices; to undertake remedial affirmative activities to overcome
discriminatory housing practices; or to undertake various report requirements,
including, but not limited to:
         a.   Requiring the respondent and all of the respondent's brokers,
associate brokers, salespeople and agents and employees who are employed as
sales or rental agents or have contractual relationship with him and are
responsible for sales and/or rental of any residential properties, to attend a
fair housing training session conducted by U.S. HUD or an agency acceptable to
the President and Trustees. Such training session shall cover Federal, State,
and local fair housing laws, applicable case law, and real life or role playing
situations. Costs of such training session shall be borne by the defendant;
         b.   Requiring all agents and employees of any respondent, owner and/
or management company to utilize the fair housing logo and slogan in all
advertising and telephone directories, and on all company stationery, forms,
pamphlets and brochures;
         c.   Requiring all agents and employees of any respondent, owner and/
or management company to post and maintain, in a manner conspicuous to tenants
and prospective tenants, buyer and prospective buyers, the fair housing poster
and logo;
         d.   Requiring any respondent owner and/or management company to
provide quarterly reports in writing for a period of five (5) years of the
names, addresses, race and sex of each prospective buyer/renter who seeks
respondent's aid in locating housing and the subsequent showings to each
prospective buyer/renter and the final disposition. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-8-13: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any persons aggrieved by the decision of the Adjudicative Agency shall
have the right to appeal in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   First, initial reconsideration by the full board of the Adjudicative
Agency. This appeal shall be initiated by filing with the Administrator, within
seven (7) calendar days of the decision, a written statement setting forth
specifically the grounds for reconsideration. These grounds shall be supported
by argument and served on all parties at the time they are filed with the
Administrator. The Adjudicative Agency, after reviewing the statement, shall:
         a.   Render a revised decision notifying all parties within fourteen
(14) calendar days of the filing of the statement for initial reconsideration;
or
         b.   Issue and serve on all parties a written order for rehearing the
case, citing the cause and additional evidence; or
         c.   Uphold the decision of the Adjudicative Agency.
      2.   Second, appeal to the President and Trustees in cases where the
Adjudicative Agency decision has been upheld. The appeal shall be initiated
within seven (7) calendar days of the initial decision or the upholding of the
initial decision, by filing with the Adjudicative Agency a written statement as
delineated in subsection A1 of this section. After reviewing the statement and
hearing record, the President and Trustees shall:
         a.   Render a revised decision notifying all parties within thirty
(30) calendar days of the filing of the appeal statement; or
         b.   Issue and serve on all parties a written order for rehearing the
case, citing the cause and additional evidence; or
         c.   Uphold the decision of the Adjudicative Agency.
The decision of the President and Trustees on such appeals shall be final.
      3.   After a decision by the President and Trustees, the aggrieved person
may apply for judicial review under writ of certiorari. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 9
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-9-1: Minimum Standards; Application Of Provisions
9-9-2: General Requirements
9-9-3: Submission Of Erosion Control Measures
9-9-4: Work Site Precautions
9-9-5: Required Control Measures
9-9-6: General Sequence Of Items Provided By Contractors
9-9-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The Village is responsible for enforcing the requirements of the Village soil
erosion and sedimentation control regulations. The requirements of this chapter
provide minimum standards to safeguard persons, to protect property and prevent
despoliation of the environment, and to promote the public welfare by
regulating and controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, and
use and maintenance of any development or other activity which disturbs or
breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of earth. These
requirements are applicable to all developments within the Village and shall
apply to any movement of earth, any sedimentation and erosion control plan, and
the granting of a permit for execution of said plan. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-9-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The development plan shall relate to the topography and soils of the site,
resulting in the lowest potential for erosion. The smallest practical area of
land shall be exposed at any given time during development, and such minimum
area exposure shall be kept to as short a duration of time as is practical.
Sediment basins, debris basins, desilting basins, and/or silt traps and fences
shall be installed and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters from
land undergoing development. Provision shall be made to effectively accommodate
the increased runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and
after development. Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate, mulching or
other non-vegetative cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during
development. Permanent, final plant covering (or structures) shall be installed
as soon as possible and shall be retained and protected so far as consistent
with developing the site. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-9-3: SUBMISSION OF EROSION CONTROL MEASURES:
Submission requirements for erosion control shall include the following:
   A.   A soils map of the project site showing the predominant soil types.
   B.   A plan showing areas and acreage to be temporarily or permanently
sodded, seeded, mulched or paved for each phase of construction.
   C.   Areas and acreage to be left undisturbed for each phase of
construction.
   D.   A storm drainage plan including, but not limited to, a drainage area
map, indicating conditions currently prevailing at proposed and natural outlets
such as:
      1.   Whether the drainage course is bare earth or vegetated.
      2.   Whether the natural or proposed outlet is subject to long term or
continuous flow.
      3.   Whether (or not) the existing outlet is actively eroding.
      4.   Whether there is evidence (permanent or seasonal) of a high water
table, and its elevation.
      5.   Whether the area is subject to seepage or spring flow.
      6.   The elevation of normal water level in all proposed and natural
outlets.
      7.   A profile through each outlet, and downstream for a sufficient
distance, to indicate the natural gradient of the accepting natural outlet and/
or stream channel.
      8.   Cross sections and profiles of existing stream channels, where
applicable, if requested.
   E.   An erosion control plan, including all erosion and sediment control
measures needed to provide protection throughout all phases of construction.
The plans shall also include on site, as well as the location of any off site,
borrow and spoil areas, stockpiles, haul and access roads, and shall further
indicate:
      1.   A chart of project construction items.
      2.   Duration of exposed disturbed areas for each phase of construction.
      3.   Installation of temporary or permanent sediment control measures
(vegetative and structural) in each phase.
      4.   Installation of storm drainage in each phase of construction.
      5.   Paving of streets and commercial parking areas, if any, in each
phase, with corresponding dates.
      6.   Establishment of permanent vegetative cover including, but not
limited to, seeding mixes and rates, type of sod, subgrade preparation, lime
and fertilizer application, mulching, or similar stabilization procedures in
each phase of construction.
      7.   Details of all structural sediment control measures.
      8.   Computations for sediment basins, if any.
   F.   When required, the stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) is
included on the erosion control plan and must meet the following requirements:
      1.   Minimum design level, unless otherwise specified by more stringent
regulations, shall be a storm event equal to or greater than a 25-year 24-hour
rainfall event.
      2.   The SWPPP must clearly identify for each measure identified in the
plan, the contractor(s) that will implement the measure, and all contractor(s)
and subcontractor(s) shall sign the following certificate (include in SWPPP):
I certify under penalty of law that I understand the terms and conditions of
the general National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
(ILR10) that authorizes the storm-water discharges associated with industrial
activity from the construction site identified as part of this certification.
The certification must include the name and title of the person providing the
signature of the contracting firm; the address (or other identifying
description) of the site; and the date of the certification.
      3.   The permittee shall at all times properly operate and maintain all
facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances)
which are installed or used by the permittee to achieve compliance with the
conditions of the NPDES ILR10 permit and with the requirements of the SWPPP.
Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory controls and
appropriate quality assurance procedures. Proper operation and maintenance
requires the operation of backup or auxiliary facilities or similar systems,
installed by a permittee only when necessary to achieve compliance with the
conditions of the permit.
      4.   Inspection by the permittee is required at least once every seven
(7) calendar days and within twenty four (24) hours of the end of a storm that
is one-half inch (0.5") or greater or five inches (5") or greater snowfall.
Based on inspection results, modifications shall provide for timely
implementation of any changes to the plans within seven (7) calendar days. The
inspection report shall summarize scope of inspection, name(s) and
qualifications of personnel making the inspection, the date(s) of the
inspection, and major observations relating to the implementation of the SWPPP.
These records shall be retained as part of the SWPPP for at least three (3)
years from the date that the permit coverage expires or is terminated. The
permittee shall complete and submit to IEPA and the Village within five (5)
days an "incidence of noncompliance" (ION) report for any violation of the
SWPPP observed during an inspection conducted, including those not required by
the plan.
   G.   Use of the "Technical Manual Designed for Urban Ecosystem Protection
and Enhancement" (Illinois Urban Manual), 2002 or latest edition, prepared for
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency by the United States Department of
Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service, is made a part hereof by
this reference for purposes of exemplifying the considerations and factors
which should enter into preparation of a soil erosion control plan. (Ord. 19-
05, 6-4-2019)
9-9-4: WORK SITE PRECAUTIONS:
Special precautions for site work shall include the following:
   A.   If, at any stage of the grading work, Village representatives determine
by inspection that the nature of the operation is such that further work as
previously authorized (by permit) is likely to imperil any property, public
way, watercourse or drainage structure, the Village may require, as a condition
to allow the work to be done, that such reasonable safety precautions be taken
as deemed appropriate to avoid the likelihood of such peril. "Special
precautions" may include, but shall not be limited to, specifying a more level
exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities, berms,
terracing, compaction, or other erosion control measures, testing,
investigations and submittal of reports.
   B.   Where it appears that stormwater damage has or may result because
erosion control measures are not complete, work may be stopped and the
contractor (or permittee) required to install temporary or permanent planting
or structures, or take such other measures as may be required to protect
adjoining property or the public safety. The Village may specify the date of
start and completion of grading, or may require that earthwork operations be
conducted in specific stages so as to ensure completion of protective measures
or devices prior to the advent of seasonal weather conditions. (Ord. 19-05, 6-
4-2019)
9-9-5: REQUIRED CONTROL MEASURES:
Required erosion and sedimentation control measures shall include the
following:
   A.   Prior to commencement of construction, the contractor shall obtain from
the owner and submit to the Village a copy of the notification of coverage
letter and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit no. ILR10. The contractor
shall conform to all requirements of this permit, including maintenance and
inspection of erosion control measures and filing of applicable certifications
and reports. A copy of the notification of coverage letter shall be posted at
the project site in a prominent place for public viewing.
   B.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be completed in
accordance with the "Illinois Urban Manual" and NPDES permit no. ILR10. Any
soil erosion control measures, in addition to those outlined in the engineering
standards and/or shown on the engineering plans, and which are deemed necessary
by the owner, design consultant and/or the Village Engineer, shall be
immediately implemented by the contractor.
   C.   The licensed professional engineer responsible for the project shall
inspect the erosion control measures proposed for the specific project on a
weekly basis and submit to the Village Engineer a letter of certification for
all soil erosion control measures that are in place and operating as designed,
and identify any noncompliant measures with a schedule to rectify the problems.
This letter of certification shall be submitted by the first day of every
month.
   D.   The general contractor, earthwork contractor and underground utilities
contractor(s) shall be responsible for the installation, inspection,
maintenance, and any necessary corrective action associated with erosion and
sedimentation control measures as they affect their related work. The
inspection shall be conducted and recorded at least once per week and after
rain events in excess of one-half inch (0.5"). The items set out in section
9-9-6 of this chapter are to be provided by the contractors at the time and in
the general sequence indicated in section
9-9-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-9-6: GENERAL SEQUENCE OF ITEMS PROVIDED BY CONTRACTORS:
General sequence of items to be provided by the contractors is as follows:
   A.   Provide and receive Village approval for any temporary measures
including, but not limited to, stabilized construction entrance(s), silt fence
and tree protection fence prior to the start of any construction activity,
including issuance of any construction or building permit. Silt fence materials
and installation must be approved prior to the start of construction.
   B.   A stabilized construction entrance shall be installed for mud and dust
control prior to the onset of construction activity and shall be maintained for
effectiveness to remove dirt that could leave the site by construction vehicles
throughout the course of the project. The construction entrance shall be
located generally where shown on the plan, and/or at any other points where
construction traffic frequently leaves the site. In accordance with the detail,
the stabilized construction entrance shall be typically thirty feet (30') wide
(with a minimum width of 14 feet if approved by a Village representative) and
one hundred feet (100') long, and shall consist of a minimum six inch (6")
thick layer of angular crushed aggregate meeting IDOT gradation CA-I, compacted
in place, and underlain with a geotextile filter fabric. Optional vehicle wash
down pit may be required as directed by the Village Engineer.
   C.   Provide diversion swales (which are part of the overall grading plan)
around the perimeter of the site, as necessary to prevent and intercept
stormwater runoff to off-site areas, as part of initial mass grading
operations.
   D.   Over-excavate any proposed wet detention basin(s) for settling and
siltation, as indicated on the plans or as directed by the Village Engineer.
The basins will be properly over-excavated so as to provide sufficient volume
for debris and settlement. When stormwater is to be routed through an existing
or proposed detention basin in order to allow for settlement of silt and
debris, the basin is to be constructed prior to any other grading work. If
drainage is into an existing basin, upstream project areas shall be properly
protected so as to minimize siltation of the downstream basin.
   E.   Over-excavate around proposed yard inlets, as indicated on the plans or
as directed by the Village Engineer.
   F.   Topsoil and other material stockpiles shall be located so as to avoid
erosion of the stockpile onto off site areas. Also, the stockpile shall be
sited so that an on site drainage swale is located between the stockpile and
downstream off site properties. If a stockpile is to remain in place for more
than fourteen (14) days, it shall be stabilized with burlap matting or be
seeded. Stockpiles should be located such that entrances are from upstream
locations.
   G.   Provide a diversion ditch, as necessary, as well as installation of
silt fencing for all stockpiles prior to placement of material in said
stockpiles.
   H.   Ensure that all construction site waste, such as discarded building
materials, concrete truck washout chemicals, litter, and sanitary waste, is
properly collected and removed from the site to prevent adverse impacts to
water quality.
   I.   Install ditch check and flared end section protection, as necessary and
in accordance with the temporary ditch check and flared end section (FES)
erosion control details, in all drainage ways within or directly adjacent to
the project site.
   J.   Because no sediment shall be allowed to enter the existing storm sewer
system, provide straw bales and filter baskets, siltation/debris collection,
etc., around all stormwater yard/detention basin inlets, curb inlets, catch
basins, etc., immediately upon installation of such structures throughout the
vicinity of the project site, which could be affected by sediment during
construction. Reinforced filter baskets, as approved in advance of placement by
the Village Engineer, shall be used for sediment control. All erosion control
measures shall be maintained until all upstream areas to respective inlets or
structures have been completed with a thorough establishment of an approved
grass turf, in accordance with EPA regulations. Repair or replacement shall be
promptly made as needed.
   K.   All streets, alleys, etc., adjacent to and in the immediate vicinity of
the project site shall be kept free of dirt, mud and debris, and cleaned, as
necessary, at the end of each workday.
   L.   Upon completion of topsoil respread operations, all disturbed areas
shall be seeded, sodded, or landscaped as noted on the engineering or landscape
plans. Seeding and mulching shall be in accordance with sections 250 and 251,
respectively, of the latest DOT standard specifications. Seed mixture shall be
Class 1. Sodding shall be in accordance with section 252 of the DOT standard
specifications. All disturbed ground within the existing Village right-of-way
shall be restored with a minimum of four inches (4") of topsoil and sodding.
Unless soil erosion control items are specifically referred to as individual
bid items (such as topsoil respread, seeding, etc.), they are to be considered
incidental to the cost of the contract.
   M.   All storm sewers, catch basins, inlets, sumps and/or detention basins
are to be cleaned at the end of the construction project and as may be
requested until final acceptance of all public improvements by the Village.
Cleaning will also be required during the course of construction if it is
determined that silt and debris traps are not properly functioning and their
performance is impaired.
   N.   All erosion control measures shall remain in place until directed
otherwise by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 10
POINT OF RESALE INSPECTIONS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Findings
9-10-2: Definitions
9-10-3: Timing And Frequency Of Inspection
9-10-4: Notice Of Transfer
9-10-5: Compliance Inspection Codes Used
9-10-6: Compliance Inspection Procedures
9-10-7: Refusal To Consent And Warrant Procedures
9-10-8: Uninspected Property
9-10-9: Inspection Procedures And Appeal
9-10-10: Follow-Up Repairs
9-10-11: Conditional Certificate Of Compliance
9-10-12: Certified Contractors
9-10-13: Validity Of Certificate Of Compliance
9-10-14: No Warranty
9-10-15: Inspection Fee Schedule
9-10-16: Checklist
9-10-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   As an Illinois Home Rule Municipality, the Village of Hodgkins
("Village") has a constitutional directive to protect and ensure public health,
safety and welfare of its citizens insofar as they are affected by the
continued occupancy and maintenance of residential structures and premises.
   B.   The Village recognizes the balance between an owner's right to transfer
property and compliance with a specific set of regulatory standards protecting
subsequent purchasers and neighboring residents.
   C.   The Village seeks the orderly adherence to Property Maintenance Codes
and the adopted Illinois Mobile Home Act through consensual point of resale
inspections of existing residential structures. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
POINT OF RESALE INSPECTION: For the purpose of this section shall mean an
inspection by qualified Village official ("Village inspector") or its qualified
agents to determine whether the condition of residential buildings or mobile
home structures within a manufactured home community ("community") comply with
specific regulations identified in this chapter.
   RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE: Shall mean both buildings and mobile/manufactured
homes within a community that is older than one year from the date of
inspection. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-3: TIMING AND FREQUENCY OF INSPECTION:
Inspections shall only be required when there is proposed to be a transfer of
interest by an owner of a residential building or a mobile home structure.
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-4: NOTICE OF TRANSFER:
   A.   Whenever an owner of a residential building proposes to transfer his
interest to a prospective buyer said owner shall notify the Village at least
thirty (30) calendar days prior to the transfer date.
   B.   Whenever the manager of a community has knowledge of a transfer of
title from one of its ground lessees said manager shall notify the Village
Clerk at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the transfer date.
   C.   Notice shall be either in writing to the Village Clerk at 8990 Lyons
Street, Hodgkins, IL 60525. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-5: COMPLIANCE INSPECTION CODES USED:
   A.   All structures shall be in compliance with the 2015 edition of the
International Property Maintenance Code.
   B.   Structures that are located in a community shall also comply with the
Illinois Mobile Home Act and
title 10, chapter 8, "Mobile Homes And Mobile Home Parks", of this Code. (Ord.
19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-6: COMPLIANCE INSPECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   When the owner notifies the Village of a transfer, the Village will
schedule an inspection to be conducted within five (5) business days of the
notice.
   B.   A notice of transfer form will be provided by the Village to the owner
and shall include the following:
      1.   Date and time of the proposed compliance inspection.
      2.   A statement that if the owner has not already provided consent for
the inspection, the owner has the right to continue to withhold consent and
require the Village to obtain a warrant to conduct an inspection.
   C.   The inspection form at section
9-10-16 of this chapter shall used to perform the inspection. This shall be
changed from time to time based on changes in the industry. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-
2019)
9-10-7: REFUSAL TO CONSENT AND WARRANT PROCEDURES:
   A.   If the owner does not consent to the proposed inspection, the Village
may appear before any Judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County and seek an
administrative search warrant to allow an inspection. Any such application
shall be made within five (5) calendar days after the owner's nonconsenting.
The application for the warrant shall specify the basis upon which the warrant
is being sought and shall include a statement that the inspection will be
limited to a determination whether there are violations of the code provisions
identified within this chapter. The court may consider any of the following
factors along with such other matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as
to whether a warrant shall issue:
      1.   Eyewitness account of violations;
      2.   Citizen complaints;
      3.   Plain view violations;
      4.   Violations apparent from Village records;
      5.   Property deterioration;
      6.   Age of property;
      7.   Condition of similar properties in the area. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-8: UNINSPECTED PROPERTY:
In the event the owner refuses to consent to an inspection and the Village does
not seek a warrant (or if court refuses an application for the warrant) the
Village Clerk shall notify the buyer that it is an "uninspected structure".
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-9: INSPECTION PROCEDURES AND APPEAL:
   A.   In the event consent is given or a warrant is issued, the Village shall
conduct the compliance inspection as provided in section
9-10-6 of this chapter. Within five (5) business days after the compliance
inspection the Village shall issue written notice of violations and repairs, if
any, necessary to bring the structure into compliance with this chapter.
   B.   In the event the owner disputes the determination of violations and
repairs, the owner may file a request for administrative review on a form
provided by the Village. An independent administrative hearing officer
appointed by the Village shall convene an administrative hearing within five
(5) business days from the date of appeal. Upon completion of the
administrative hearing, the hearing officer will issue a final determination of
violation and repairs. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-10: FOLLOW-UP REPAIRS:
A party issued a notice of repairs as provided for in subsection
9-10-9A of this chapter shall proceed to make such repairs. Upon completion of
said repairs thereof to the Village, the Village will conduct a re-inspection
within five (5) business days thereafter. Upon completion of the follow-up
repairs the Village shall issue a certificate of compliance. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-
2019)
9-10-11: CONDITIONAL CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
An owner who has not completed the repairs identified through the inspection
may nevertheless transfer ownership of property if:
   A.   If the owner has deposited with the Village, in a separate escrow, an
amount determined by the Village inspector or his designee to be sufficient to
bring the structure into compliance with applicable Village regulations as
stated in section
9-10-5 of this chapter.
   B.   The purchaser, assignee or successor in title ownership (hereinafter
"buyer") has entered into an escrow agreement with the lender or other
reputable entity whereby the buyer agrees, within the time period determined by
the lender or other reputable entity inspector or his designee, to bring the
structure in compliance with all applicable code requirements. Said compliance
period shall not exceed ninety (90) days after the transaction closing or
conveyance of title.
   C.   If a buyer enters into such an agreement, a conditional certificate
will issue in order to allow the closing to be completed or the certificate of
title to be executed in the case of a mobile structure; provided however
occupancy of the mobile home shall not occur until a certificate of compliance
is issued.
   D.   In the event the buyer fails to complete the required repairs and have
the repairs verified on re-inspection, the inspector is hereby authorized to
pursue enforcement proceedings through the Village of Hodgkins administrative
adjudication process or at his discretion, through the Circuit Court of Cook
County. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019; amd. Ord. 22-08, 10-10-2022)
9-10-12: CERTIFIED CONTRACTORS:
   A.   All contractors performing repairs identified in the point of resale
inspections shall be licensed contractors and shall make available, upon
request, their license, verification of their liability insurance, errors and
omissions insurance policies.
   B.   The owners of structures for resale may perform their own repairs but
must be certified by the certified contractor as described above. (Ord. 19-05,
6-4-2019)
9-10-13: VALIDITY OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
A certificate of compliance issued to the seller shall be valid for one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date of issuance. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-14: NO WARRANTY:
In issuing a certificate of compliance or a conditional certificate of
compliance, the Village and its agents do not make any warranty, representation
or statement nor does it intend to insure or guarantee to either buyer or
seller of the structure subject to the point of resale inspection or any of
their designees, agents, representative, heirs or assigns or any other
interested party, including mortgage companies, insurance companies, banks or
any other party which may have any interest relative to the property subject to
the point of resale inspection, nor does the Village affirm that there are no
additional unnoted violations relative to any other provisions of this Code, or
relevant statutes, ordinances, rules and regulation of the County of Cook, the
State of Illinois or the United States of America. (Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
9-10-15: INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   The fee for a point of resale inspection shall be one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for all residential structures. The failure of an owner/
seller to appear at the time of inspection shall result in a fifty dollar
($50.00) penalty.
   B.   Each fee set forth above covers the cost of one re-inspection to verify
compliance. In the event that additional inspections are required because full
compliance did not exist at the time of the re-inspection, then an additional
re-inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be assessed. (Ord. 19-05, 6-
4-2019)
9-10-16: CHECKLIST:
!!!
   Property Transfer Inspection Checklist
   Village of Hodgkins
   8990 Lyons Street . Hodgkins, . Illinois . 60525
   708-579-6700 . 708-579-6707 Fax
   www.villageofhodgkins.org
Property Address:          Date:    
Inspector:          Time:    
Other Notes:        # of Bedrooms:    
   In accordance with the Ordinance for Property transfer and the ICC
International Property Maintenance Code as adopted.
 
Exterior Structure
 
1. Exterior wall coverings             9. Windows-Condition and screens
                                       
2. Roof                                10. Doors-Condition
                                       
3. Stairs-Front and/or Rear            11. Electric Meter-Condition
                                       
4. Hand and Guard Rails                12. Gas Meter-Condition
                                       
5. Address-Posted and Visible          13. Tie Downs-if visible
                                       
6. Sidewalks-Driveways-Slabs-condition 14. Air condition-Condition & disconnect
                                       
7. Skirt-in place and condition        15. Other
                                       
8. Shed-Location and condition         16. Other
                                       
                                       
 
Exterior Comments:
   
   
 
Interior Structure
 
 
17. Smoke detector-Operational, number and 22. Floor Covering-condition
location                                    
 
18. Carbon Monoxide-Operational & location 23. Wall finish-condition & type
                                           
19. Windows-Broker, openable               24. Egress door hardware
                                           
20. Emergency Escape Windows-if provided   25. General Structural conditions
                                           
21. Sanitation                             26. other
                                           
 
Interior Comments:
   
   
   
 
Plumbing
 
 
27. Kitchen plumbing-condition & leaks  29. Water heater-Condition & T&P valve
                                        
28. Bathroom plumbing-Condition & leaks 30. Other
                                        
 
Plumbing Comments:
   
   
 
Mechanical
 
31. Heating Facilities-Condition       33. Chimney or vent-Condition
                                       
32. Clearance to combustible & storage 34. Other
                                       
 
Mechanical Comments:
   
   
 
Electrical
 
 
35. Electrical Facilities-General condition 38. GFCI-when installed-condition
                                            
36. Main panel-General condition, labeled   39. Installed fixtures-Condition
                                            
37. Receptacles-covers and condition        40. Other
                                            
 
Electrical Comments:
   
   
General Comments:
   
   
 
Re-Inspection Required Approved As Noted Approved
 
Re-inspection Date:       
Inspector Signature:       
Property Owner of Agent Signature:          
 
(Ord. 19-05, 6-4-2019)
CHAPTER 11
REAL ESTATE; INTENT TO SELL
SECTION:
9-11-1: Definitions
9-11-2: Transfer Of Title By Deed Or Transfer Of Beneficial Interest
9-11-3: General Provisions
9-11-4: Penalties
9-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
hereinafter ascribed to them:
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for the benefit of
beneficiaries of such land trust.
   CERTIFICATE OF BUILDING CODE COMPLIANCE: A form prepared by the Village and
issued by the Village building inspector which evidences compliance with the
Hodgkins Village Building Code following an inspection of the building or
buildings on the premises to be conveyed.
   ESCROW: If the costs to remediate any violations of the Building Code
discovered pursuant to the inspections can be identified said amount may, with
the approval of the building inspector, be placed into escrow for the benefit
of the grantee to make the necessary repairs. In the event an escrow is
established it shall become the responsibility of the grantee to make the
necessary repairs.
   NOTICE OF INTENT TO SELL REAL ESTATE: The communication to the Hodgkins
Village Clerk at 8990 Lyons Street, Hodgkins, IL 60525 either by the grantor of
improved real estate, or an agent thereof, expressing an intent to convey by
transfer of deed or the conveyance of beneficial interest. Such notice may be
verbal or in writing but evidence of said notice shall be the responsibility of
the grantor.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, assignee,
joint stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation, domestic or
foreign corporation, profit or not for profit corporation, trust, or a
receiver, administrator, executor, trustee, conservator, or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
   REAL ESTATE: Any improved residential property located within the Village
boundaries whether improved or unimproved.
   RECORDATION: The recording of deeds by the Recorder of Deeds of Cook County,
Illinois. (Ord. 16-10, 4-11-2016)
9-11-2: TRANSFER OF TITLE BY DEED OR TRANSFER OF BENEFICIAL INTEREST:
   A.   Liability For Notice To Village Clerk: The grantor shall be responsible
and liable for the notice.
   B.   Transfer Of Title: Any transfer of title which may occur without the
Certificate of Building Code Compliance will be in violation of this Code.
   C.   Certificate: The Certificate of Building Code Compliance shall be on a
form prepared by the Village and shall only be executed by the Village building
inspector following a physical inspection of the building to be conveyed. The
certificate shall be for the benefit of either the grantor or grantee. (Ord.
16-10, 4-11-2016)
9-11-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notification To Village Building Inspector: At the time a notice of
intent to transfer real property as provided herein, the Village Clerk shall
notify the building inspector so that an inspection of the subject real estate
can be scheduled. The building inspector shall notify the grantor of any
Village Code violations and said violations shall be properly rectified prior
to any sale of the real estate.
   B.   Notification To Water Department: At the time a notice of intent to
sell is received, the Village Clerk shall notify the Superintendent of Water
who shall determine if there are any outstanding water charges due the Village.
If there is an outstanding balance due the Village, the same shall be paid
prior to the sale of the real estate. (Ord. 16-10, 4-11-2016)
9-11-4: PENALTIES:
The following penalties shall be imposed upon any person who fails to comply
with the conditions of this chapter:
   A.   In the event of failure by the grantor to provide notice as provided
herein to Village Clerk the grantor shall be liable to the Village for a fine
of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 16-10, 4-11-2016)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title And Purpose
10-1-2: Scope And Effect
10-1-3: Rules Of Construction
10-1-4: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
Special statutory requirements of the Illinois Municipal Code govern the
enactment or amendment of the Zoning Ordinance, and for that purpose, the
Zoning Ordinance is included in this code for the purpose of reference and
convenience. The original Zoning Ordinance, plus all amendments and maps
showing the various use districts, are on file with the Village Clerk. In this
Title, the Zoning Act shall be known as the ZONING CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
HODGKINS and shall consist of the text hereof as well as that certain map
identified and approved by the President and Board of Trustees and designated
as the "Zoning map." Said map is hereby adopted by reference as a part of this
Title. (1985 Code § 9-1-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-1-2: SCOPE AND EFFECT:
   A.   The provisions of this Title apply to all persons including, and not
limited to, any tenant, lessor or lessee, owner, rental agent, occupant, firm
or corporation, or agents, employees, or contractors of such.
   B.   This Title does not repeal any existing laws in regards to buildings,
sanitation, or otherwise, where not inconsistent herewith.
   C.   This Title is adopted to the end:
      1.   That the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience, and
general welfare may be otherwise promoted;
      2.   That adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and other
dangers may be secured;
      3.   That the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the Village
may be conserved;
      4.   That congestion in the public streets may be lessened or avoided;
      5.   That the hazards to persons and damage to property resulting from
the accumulation of runoff of storm or flood waters may be lessened or avoided;
      6.   That will ensure and facilitate the preservation of sites, areas,
and structures of historical, architectural, and aesthetic importance; and
      7.   That aesthetic value throughout the Village may be preserved and
enhanced.
   D.   To achieve these ends, this Title sets forth regulations and standards:
      1.   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter
erected;
      2.   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along any street, traffic way, drive, parkway, storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin, or other property line;
      3.   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces within and surrounding
buildings;
      4.   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential, and other uses;
      5.   To divide the entire Village into districts of such number, shape,
area, and of such different classes (according to use of land and buildings,
height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area of open
spaces, or other classification) as may be deemed best suited to carry out the
purposes of this Title;
      6.   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
      7.   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts;
      8.   To prevent additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this Title;
      9.   To classify, regulate, and restrict the use of property on the basis
of family relationship, which family relationship may be defined as one or more
persons each related to the other by blood, marriage, partnership, or adoption
and maintaining a common household or partnership;
      10.   To provide for the gradual elimination of uses, buildings, and
structures, which are incompatible with the character of the districts in which
they are made or located;
      11.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the Administrative
Officers and bodies as hereinafter provided; and,
      12.   To prescribe penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
Title or any amendment thereto. (1985 Code § 9-1-2; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-1-3: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this Title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction
   A.   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
Title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof,
and any word appearing in parentheses, directly after a word herein defined,
shall be construed in the same sense as that word.
   F.   All measured distances, expressed in feet, shall be to the nearest
integral foot. If a fraction is one half foot (1/2') or more, the integral foot
next above shall be taken. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words used to explain land use regulations require special usage. Other
words and terms must be defined as to the manner in which they relate to
Zoning. The following words are defined for the purpose of clarity and
understanding of the provisions set forth in this Title:
ABANDONMENT:    An action to intentionally give up one's rights or interests in property.
                One which:
                A.   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
                B.   Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal building or
                principal use served;
                C.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants of the
                principal building or principal use served;
                D.   And shall conform to the same construction requirements as the principle
                structure;
                E.   Accessory structures are defined as other structures other than the principle
                structure or an accessory building. Examples are sheds or gazebos. It does not
                include driveways and sidewalks.
ACCESSORY       F.   Is located on the same Zoning lot as the principal building or principal use
BUILDING OR     served with the single exception of such accessory off street parking facilities as
USE:            are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same Zoning lot with the building or
                use served.
                G.   A truck parking area can be considered an accessory use if all the following
                are met:
                   1.   The operator has a business operated out of a facility (primary business)
                within the Village of Hodgkins;
                   2.   The parking is ancillary to the operation of the primary business;
                   3.   The area is not leased to any other business or corporate entity
                   4.   The area is not in a Residential District;
                   5.   The surface is concrete or asphalt;
                   6.   A Village of Hodgkins business license has been obtained;
                H.   The accessory use cannot be the only use on a lot.
ACREAGE:        Any tract or parcel of land having an area of one acre or more which has not
                heretofore been subdivided or platted.
                An establishment having as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in
ADULT BOOKSTORE trade books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, and/or photographs,
AND/OR VIDEO    films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, tapes, records, or other forms of
STORE:          visual or audio representations which are distinguished or characterized by their
                emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities
                or specified anatomical areas.
                Any commercial use of property of which a significant or substantial portion
                involves an activity distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matters
ADULT BUSINESS  depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
USE:            anatomical areas, including, but not limited to, the operation of an adult
                bookstore and/or video store, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult motion
                picture theater, adult motion picture arcade, adult motel, adult card, gift or
                novelty store, or adult entertainment cabaret.
ADULT CARD,     An establishment having a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade
GIFT, OR        items such as cards, games, articles of clothing, and novelties which are
NOVELTY STORE:  distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified
                sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
                A public or private establishment which, live or on motion pictures, features:
                A.   Topless and/or bottomless dancers, strippers, and/or male or female
ADULT           impersonators; or
ENTERTAINMENT   B.   Entertainers who not infrequently display specified anatomical areas; or
CABARET:        C.   Entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct, perform in a
                manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron
                or entertainers who engage in, or engage in explicit simulation of, specified
                sexual activities.
                An enclosed building, or any portion or portions thereof, having a capacity from
                six (6) to fifty (50) persons, where, for any form of consideration (including a
                coin or token inserted into a coin or token operated projector, video screen, or
ADULT MINI      other image producing device), patrons may view films, motion pictures, video
MOTION PICTURE  cassettes, slides or similar photographic or electronic reproductions in which a
THEATER:        significant or substantial portion of the total presentation time is devoted to the
                showing of materials that are distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting,
                describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
                areas.
                A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment which:
                A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration; provides
                patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video
                cassettes, slides, or other electronic or photographic reproductions which are
                characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
                specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right of way
ADULT MOTEL:    which advertises the availability of such transmissions, films, motion pictures,
                video cassettes, slides, or other photographic or electronic reproductions; or
                B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than eight
                (8) hours; or
                C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sublet the room for a period
                of time that is less than eight (8) hours.
                D.   Rent and/or sublet, when used in reference to an adult motel, shall mean the
                act of permitting a sleeping room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
                An establishment in which electronic, electrical, or mechanical still or slide
                projectors, video screens, closed circuit television transmissions, or other image
ADULT MOTION    producing devices operable by insertion of a coin or token or for other
PICTURE ARCADE: consideration are maintained for presentation of images to five (5) or fewer
                persons at a single time per such device and where the images presented are
                distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified
                sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
                An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons where, for any
                form of consideration, patrons may view closed circuit television transmissions,
ADULT MOTION    films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar electronic or
PICTURE         photographic reproductions in which a significant or substantial portion of the
THEATER:        total presentation time is devoted to the showing of materials that are
                distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
                specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT-USE       Nonmedical cannabis as defined in the Adult-Use Cannabis Act.
CANNABIS:
ADULT-USE       The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and as may, from time
CANNABIS ACT:   to time, be amended.
ADULT-USE
CANNABIS        An Adult-Use cannabis cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization,
BUSINESS        Infuser organization, dispensing organization, or transporting organization.
ESTABLISHMENT:
                A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
ADULT-USE       Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis and perform
CANNABIS CRAFT  other necessary activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing
GROWER:         organization or use at a processing organization, per the Act as it may be amended
                from time to time and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE       A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
CANNABIS        Department of Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport, and perform necessary
CULTIVATION     activities to provide cannabis and cannabis infused products to licensed cannabis
CENTER:         business establishment, per the Act, as it may be amended from time to time and
                regulations promulgated thereunder.
                A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
ADULT-USE       Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from
CANNABIS        licensed cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
DISPENSING      cannabis, cannabis infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related
ORGANIZATION:   supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
                caregivers, per the Act, as it may be amended from time to time and regulations
                promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE       A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
CANNABIS        Department of Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate
INFUSER         into a product formulation to produce a cannabis infused product, per the Act, as
ORGANIZATION OR it may be amended from time to time and regulations promulgated thereunder.
INFUSER:
ADULT-USE       A facility operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
CANNABIS        Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to
PROCESSING      produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
ORGANIZATION OR product formulation to produce cannabis product, per the Act, as it may be amended
PROCESSOR:      from time to time and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE       An organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
CANNABIS        Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or
TRANSPORTING    a community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
ORGANIZATION OR Training Pilot Program, per the Act. as it may be amended from time to time and
TRANSPORTER:    regulations promulgated thereunder.
ALLEY:          A public way, not more than thirty feet (30') wide, which affords only a secondary
                means of access to abutting property.
                A change in size, shape, character, or use of a building or structure, or a change
ALTERATION:     or rearrangement in the structural, mechanical, electrical, plumbing or egress
                systems of a building or structure.
ALTERATION,     Any change which would tend to prolong the life of the supporting members of a
STRUCTURAL:     building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, and girders.
ANTENNA:        A vertical structure or other device used to transmit or receive radio, television,
                telephone, and internet signals.
APARTMENT       See definition of Hotel, Apartment.
HOTEL:
APARTMENT       See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
HOUSE:
ATTIC:          A space between the roof and next lower ceiling, having an average clear height of
                less than seven feet (7').
                A room, hall, or building made a part of a church, theater, school, recreation
AUDITORIUM:     building, concert or music hall, or other building, assigned to the gathering of
                people as an audience to hear lectures, plays, etc.
                Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not in running condition, or parts
AUTO WRECKING   thereof, are stored in the open and are not being restored to operation; any land,
YARD OR         building, or structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts
JUNKYARD:       thereof; and including any farm vehicles or farm machinery or parts thereof, stored
                in the open and not being restored to operating condition, and including the
                commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
AUTOMOBILE AND  An open area, other than a street, used for the display or sale of new or used
TRAILER SALES   automobiles or trailers, and where no repair work is done except for minor
AREA:           incidental repair of automobiles or trailers to be displayed and sold on the
                premises.
AUTOMOBILE      Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles or
REPAIR, MAJOR:  trailers; collision service, including body, frame, or fender straightening or
                repair, and painting of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE      Incidental repairs, replacement of parts, and motor service to automobiles, but not
REPAIR, MINOR:  including any operation specified under the definition of "automobile repair,
                major."
                A place where gasoline, stored only in underground tanks, kerosene, lubricating
                oil, or grease, for operation of automobiles, are offered for sale directly to the
                public, on the premises, and including minor accessories and the servicing of
AUTOMOBILE      automobiles, but not including major automobile repairs; and including washing of
SERVICE         automobiles where no chain conveyor, blower or steam cleaning device is employed.
STATION:        When the dispensing, sale, or offering for sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental
                to the conduct of a public garage, the premises shall be classified as a "public
                garage." Automobile service stations shall not include sale or storage of
                automobiles or trailers (new or used).
AWNING:         A roof like cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall of a building
                or overhangs the public way.
                A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one half (1/2) of its height
BASEMENT:       is above the established curb level or above the average level of the adjoining
                ground where the curb level has not been established, a basement shall be counted
                as a story for purposes of height measurement.
BILLBOARD:      See definition of Sign, Advertising (Billboard).
                A tract of land bounded by streets or, in lieu of a street or streets, by public
BLOCK:          parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines or shorelines of
                waterways, or corporate boundary lines of municipalities.
                The space remaining on a Zoning lot after there has been compliance with the
BUILDABLE AREA: minimum open space requirements, setbacks, and other applicable regulations such as
                required yards.
                A.   Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the land and
                entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or by walls in
                which there are no communicating doors, windows, or openings; and which is designed
BUILDING:       or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons, animals or
                chattels.
                B.   Any structure with interior areas not normally accessible for human use, such
                as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain elevators, coal bunkers, oil cracking
                towers, and other similar structures, are not considered buildings.
BUILDING        A building separated on all sides from the adjacent open space, or from other
COMPLETELY      buildings or other structures, by a permanent roof and by exterior walls or party
ENCLOSED:       walls, pierced only by windows and normal entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING        A building surrounded by open space on the same Zoning lot.
DETACHED:
                The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or its equivalent
                established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building to the highest
                elevation of the roof in the case of a slant or flat roof; to the deck line of a
BUILDING        mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge of a gable, hip
HEIGHT:         or gambrel roof; provided, that where buildings are set back from the street line,
                the height of the building may be measured from the average elevation of the
                finished lot grade at the front of the building and/or measured from the average
                height of the structures on the lots on both sides.
                The line nearest the front of and across a Zoning lot establishing the minimum open
BUILDING LINE:  space to be provided between the front line of a building or structure and the
                street right of way line.
                Any building which does not conform to the regulations herein prescribing the
BUILDING,       maximum floor area ratio, required yards, coverage, height and setbacks, minimum
NONCONFORMING:  required spacing between buildings on a single lot, and minimum required usable
                open space for the district in which such building is located.
BUILDING        The Officer or other designated authority charged with the administration and
OFFICIAL:       enforcement of the Village of Hodgkins Building Code or a duly authorized
                representative.
BUILDING,       A nonaccessory building in which the principal use of the Zoning lot on which it is
PRINCIPAL:      located is conducted.
BUILDING,       A building which is arranged, designed, used, or intended to be used for
RESIDENTIAL:    residential occupancy (one-family, two-family, and multi-family).
BUILDING        A line parallel to the street line at a distance from it, regulated by the front
SETBACK LINE:   yard requirements set out herein.
BUILDING,       Any building not designed to be permanently located in the place where it is or
TEMPORARY:      where it is intended to be placed or affixed.
                The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or structures and
                location of same with respect to one another and includes the following:
                A.   Size and height of buildings.
                B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines, streets, or
BULK:           other buildings.
                C.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area ratio).
                D.   All open spaces allocated to the buildings.
                E.   Amount of lot area per dwelling unit.
                F.   Required parking areas.
BUS LOT:        Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger buses or motor
                coaches.
                A roof like structure, with or without post or other ground support, constructed to
CANOPY:         provide shelter to pedestrians or vehicles. A canopy may extend into the public
                right of way but not closer than two feet (2') to the curb line.
CAR WASH:       A building, or portion thereof, where automobiles are washed with the use of a
                chain conveyer and blower or steam cleaning device.
CARPORT:        A roofed over area attached to the principal building for vehicle storage, which
                may be open on three (3) sides.
                A story having more than one half (1/2) its height below the curb level or below
CELLAR:         the highest level of the adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be counted as a story
                for the purposes of height measurement.
                An establishment where three (3) or more licensed doctors of medicine engage in the
                practice of medicine, operating on a group or individual basis, with pooled
CLINIC OR       facilities, such as coordinated laboratory, X-ray, and allied departments, for the
MEDICAL HEALTH  diagnosis and treatment of humans, which need not, but may, include a drug
CENTER:         prescription counter (not a drugstore or pharmacy) for the dispensing of drugs and
                pharmaceutical products to the patients of the said organization. In addition to
                the above, the medical center or medical clinic may include the space for the
                practice of dentistry.
                A.   A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members paying annual
                dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building or portion thereof, the use of such
                premises being restricted to members and their guests.
                B.   It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises, provided
CLUB OR LODGE,  that adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are available. The sale of
PRIVATE:        alcoholic beverages to the members and their guests shall be allowed in conjunction
                with the operation of a dining room for the purpose of serving food and meals,
                though such beverages may be served in a separate room or rooms; and provided that
                such sale of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable federal,
                state, and Village laws.
                A single-family dwelling erected on a single lot in addition to the primary single-
COACH HOUSE:    family dwelling. All requirements such as lot coverage and setbacks have to be in
                compliance using both structures to determine compliance.
COMMERCIAL OR   Any facility whose operation will affect commerce or that is intended for
INDUSTRIAL      nonresidential use by a private entity.
FACILITY:
CORNER LOT:     See definition of Lot, Corner.
CORNER LOT      See definition of Lot, Reversed Corner.
REVERSED:
COURT, OUTER:   An open, unoccupied space opening onto a street, alley, or yard.
COVERAGE, LOT:  See definition of Lot Coverage.
                The level of the established curb in front of the building, measured at the center
                of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street, the curb level shall
CURB LEVEL:     be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center of the front of each
                street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the mean level of the land
                immediately adjacent to the building shall be considered to be the curb level.
                An institution or place in which are received three (3) or more children, not of
                common parentage, apart from their parent or guardian, for part or all of a day,
                but not later than nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. The term "daycare center" includes, but
DAYCARE CENTER: is not limited to, nursery schools, childcare centers, day nurseries,
                kindergartens, play groups, and adult care centers, but does not include bona fide
                kindergartens or nursery schools operated by public or private elementary or
                secondary school systems.
DECIBEL:        A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound level meters
                which are employed to measure the intensity of sound, are calibrated in decibels.
                A section or sections of the incorporated area of the Village for which the
DISTRICT:       regulations and provisions governing the use of buildings and land are uniform for
                each class of use permitted therein.
                A building or portion thereof, including a house trailer or manufactured home,
DWELLING:       designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy, including one-family
                dwelling units, two-family dwelling units, and multiple-family dwelling units, but
                not including hotels, motels, boarding houses, or lodging houses.
DWELLING,       A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at one or more sides by a party wall
ATTACHED:       or walls.
DWELLING,       A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot.
DETACHED:
DWELLING GROUP: Two (2) or more one-family, two-family, or townhouses, or boarding or lodging
                houses, located on one Zoning lot, but not including tourist courts or motels.
DWELLING,       A building or portion thereof, designed or altered for occupancy by three (3) or
MULTIPLE-       more families living independently of each other.
FAMILY:
DWELLING, ONE-  A dwelling unit designed exclusively for use and occupancy by one-family.
FAMILY:
DWELLING, ROW   A row of two (2) to eight (8) attached one-family, party wall dwellings, not more
(PARTY WALL):   than two and one half (2-1/2) stories in height nor more than two (2) rooms in
                depth, measured from the building line.
DWELLING, TWO-  A building designed or altered to provide dwelling units for occupancy by two (2)
FAMILY:         families.
                Consists of one or more rooms, which are arranged, designed, or used as living
DWELLING UNIT:  quarters for one family only. Individual bathrooms and complete kitchen facilities,
                permanently installed, shall be included for each dwelling unit.
                A specific area of land over which a liberty, privilege, or advantage is granted by
                the owner to the public, a corporation, or some particular person or part of the
EASEMENT:       public for specific uses and purposes and which shall be designated a "public" or
                "private" easement, perpetual or for a given term, and exclusive or nonexclusive
                depending on the nature of the particular grant.
                Public, parochial, charitable, or nonprofit junior college, college, or university,
EDUCATIONAL     other than trade or business schools, including instructional and recreational
INSTITUTION:    uses, with or without living quarters, dining rooms, restaurants, heating plants,
                and other incidental facilities for students, teachers, and employees.
ESTABLISHED     The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line as established by the Village
GRADE:          Engineer or the average heights of the sidewalks on the lots on both sides.
                One or more persons related by blood, marriage, partnership, or adoption or a group
                of not more than three (3) persons who need not be related by blood, marriage, or
                adoption, living together and maintaining a common household, but no unrelated
FAMILY:         group shall consist of more than three (3) persons as distinguished from a group
                occupying a boarding house, lodging house or hotel provided such persons maintain a
                common household and a single housekeeping unit. The term "related by blood,
                marriage, or adoption" shall be confined to lineal descendants or ascendants of the
                head of the family and spouse occupying said unit.
FENCE:          A structure serving as an enclosure, barrier, or boundary.
                Any device that will or is designed to or may readily be converted to expel a
FIREARM:        projectile by the action of an explosive, including the frame or receiver of any
                such weapon, any firearm muffler, firearm silencer, or any destructive device.
FIREARM STORE:  A retail store that derives its principal income from buying and selling firearms,
                with or without the sale of ammunitions and/or firearm accessories.
                An indoor facility where firearms are discharged at targets for training or
FIRING RANGE,   practice purposes and which is designed so that projectiles fired from firearms at
INDOOR:         targets are prevented (by means of backstops or other barriers) from going beyond
                the walls of the facility.
FLAG POLE:      A vertical structure single pole or an assembly of components designed to be used
                for the display of flags.
                Any sign, exclusive of a changing sign (automatic) on which illumination
FLASHING SIGN:  intermittently flashes on and off, in whole or in part, or which includes the
                illusion of intermittent or flashing light by means of animation or an externally
                mounted intermittent light source.
                A.   For the purpose of determining floor area ratio: The floor area of a building
                or buildings shall be the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
                of such building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls
                or from the centerline of party walls separating two (2) buildings. In particular,
                gross floor area shall include:
                   1.   Basement space if at least one half (1/2) of the basement story is above
                the established curb or ground level.
                   2.   Elevator shafts and stairwells on each floor.
                   3.   Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural headroom
                exceeds seven and one half feet (7-1/2'), except equipment, open or enclosed,
                located on the roof, i.e., bulkheads, water tanks, and cooling towers.
                   4.   Attic floor space where the structural headroom exceeds seven and one half
                feet (7-1/2').
FLOOR AREA,        5.   Interior balconies and mezzanines.
GROSS:             6.   Enclosed porches, but not terraces and breezeways.
                   7.   Accessory buildings.
                B.   For the purpose of determining requirements for off street parking and off
                street loading: The floor area shall mean the sum of the gross horizontal area of
                the several floors of the buildings, or portion thereof, devoted to such use,
                including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space, such as
                counters, racks, or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to retailing
                activities, to the production or processing of goods, or to business or
                professional offices. However, floor area for purposes of measurement for off
                street parking spaces shall not include floor area devoted primarily to storage
                purposes (except as otherwise noted herein); floor area devoted to off street
                parking or loading facilities, including aisles, ramps, and maneuvering space; or
                basement floor other than area devoted to retailing activities, or the production
                or processing of goods, or to business or professional offices.
FLOOR AREA      The total floor area of the building or buildings on the Zoning lot, divided by the
RATIO (FAR):    area of such Zoning lot, or in the case of a planned development, by the net site
                area.
FREQUENCY:      The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave measuring the pitch of the
                resulting sound.
FRONTAGE:       All the property fronting on one side of a street between the nearest intersecting
                streets or between a street and a right of way, waterway, or other similar barrier.
                Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of three (3) or more
GARAGE, BUS:    passenger motor buses or motor coaches used in public transportation, including
                school buses.
GARAGE, BUS, OR A building which is used or intended to be used for the storage of motor trucks,
TRUCK:          truck trailers, tractors, and commercial vehicles exceeding one and one half (1-1/
                2) ton capacity.
                Any accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal building which is
                intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicles of the family or
                families resident upon the premises and in which no business, service, or industry
                connected directly or indirectly with automotive vehicles is carried on; provided,
GARAGE,         that not more than one half (1/2) of the space may be rented for the private
PRIVATE:        vehicles of persons not resident on the premises; except, that all the space in a
                garage of one or two (2) car capacity may be so rented. Such a garage shall not be
                used for more than one commercial vehicle, and the load capacity of such vehicle
                shall not exceed one and one half (1-1/2) ton. A garage used by the owner who lives
                on the property for a home based repair business can be considered a private garage
                if all other requirements are in compliance.
                A building other than a private garage, used for the care, incidental servicing,
                and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles are parked or stored for
GARAGE, PUBLIC: remuneration, hire, or sale within the structure, but not including trucks,
                tractors, truck trailers, and commercial vehicles exceeding one and one half (1-1/
                2) ton capacity.
                The elevation of the established street in front of the building measured at the
GRADE, STREET:  center of such front. Where no street grade has been established, the Village
                Engineer shall establish such street grade or its equivalent for the purpose
                hereof.
GREEN STRIP:    The front, side, or rear yard is landscaped with grass, shrubs, or trees, but
                excluding walks and ingress or egress driveways.
                A structure for human habitation containing one or more rooms with bath and toilet
GUESTHOUSE:     facilities. Such quarters shall have no kitchen facilities nor be rented or
                otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
                A.   Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of a family, residing on
                the premises, in connection with which there is used no sign other than that
                allowed by the sign regulations for the district in which such home occupation is
                located; provided that no commodity is sold upon the premises except such as may be
HOME            produced on the premises by members of the immediate family; provided, that no
OCCUPATION:     person is employed other than a member of the immediate family residing on the
                premises; and provided that no mechanical equipment is used except such as is
                normally used for domestic, hobby or household purposes.
                B.   Home occupation shall include the use of premises by a physician, surgeon,
                dentist, lawyer, clergyman, or other professional person for consultation or
                emergency treatment, but not for the general practice of his profession.
                An institution devoted primarily to maintenance and operation of facilities for the
                diagnosis, treatment, or care, for not less than twenty four (24) hours in any
                week, of three (3) or more nonrelated individuals suffering from illness, disease,
HOSPITAL OR     injury, deformity, or other abnormal physical conditions. The term "hospital," as
SANATORIUM:     used herein, does not apply to institutions operating solely for the treatment of
                insane persons, drug addicts, liquor addicts, or other types of cases necessitating
                restraint of patients, and the term "hospital" shall not be used for convalescent,
                nursing, shelter or boarding homes.
HOTEL,          A building containing dwelling units or individual guest rooms, the majority of
APARTMENT:      which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor service may be provided, but
                kitchen facilities are not necessarily included.
                An establishment containing lodging accommodations designed for use by transients,
                travelers, or temporary guests. Facilities provided may include maid service,
HOTEL OR MOTEL: laundering of linen used on the premises, telephone and secretarial or desk
                service, meeting rooms, and restaurants, but may not include kitchen or cooking
                facilities.
INSTITUTION:    A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit establishment for
                public or semipublic use.
KENNEL,         Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than four (4) dogs, cats, and
COMMERCIAL:     other household domestic animals over four (4) months of age are kept or on which
                more than two (2) such animals are boarded for compensation or kept for sale.
LABORATORY,     A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and analyzing. Manufacturing,
COMMERCIAL:     assembly, or packaging of products is not included within this definition.
                An open, hard surfaced area of land, other than a street or a public way, the
LOADING AND     principal use of which is for the standing, loading, and unloading of motor
UNLOADING SPACE vehicles, tractors, and trailers, to avoid undue interference with public streets
OR BERTH, OFF   and alleys. Such space shall not be less than ten feet (10') in width, twenty five
STREET:         feet (25') in length, and fifteen feet (15') in height, exclusive of access aisles
                and maneuvering space.
                A building originally designed for or used as a single-family or two-family
                dwelling, all or a portion of which contains lodging rooms, which accommodate
LODGING OR      persons who are not members of the keeper's family. Said building shall not contain
ROOMING HOUSE:  more than five (5) guestrooms where lodging is provided for compensation, and said
                building shall not be open to transients, and not more than one person shall be
                allowed per room.
                A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without cooking facilities and
LODGING ROOM:   with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of rooms without cooking
                facilities, each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as
                one "lodging room" for the purposes hereof.
LOT:            A parcel of land legally described as a distinct portion of or piece of land of
                record.
LOT AREA:       The area of a horizontal plane bounded by vertical planes containing the front,
                side, and rear lot lines.
                A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more intersecting
LOT, CORNER:    streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in the alignment of a single street,
                the interior angle of which is one hundred thirty five degrees (135°) or less.
LOT COVERAGE:   The area of a Zoning lot occupied by the principal building or buildings and
                accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH:      The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines of a lot measured
                within the lot boundaries.
                The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public street; for a
LOT FRONTAGE:   corner lot, the owner may elect either street line as the front lot line as
                approved by the Building Official.
LOT, INTERIOR:  A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
                A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate ownership; except
LOT LINE:       that where any portion of the lot extends to the abutting street or alley, the lot
                line shall be deemed to be the street or alley line.
LOT LINE,       The front property line of a Zoning lot.
FRONT:
LOT LINE,       A side lot line common with another lot.
INTERIOR:
LOT LINE, REAR: A lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel to and most remote from the front lot
                lines.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD:  An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision recorded or
                registered, pursuant to statute.
LOT, REVERSED   A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of another lot, whether across
CORNER:         an alley or not.
                A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately parallel streets, and
LOT, THROUGH:   which is not a corner lot. On a through lot, both street lines shall be deemed
                front lot lines.
                The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured within the lot
LOT WIDTH:      boundaries or the minimum distance between the side lot lines within the buildable
                area.
MANUFACTURE:    The making of anything by any agency or process.
                A roof like structure of a permanent nature, which projects from the wall of a
MARQUEE:        building without ground support, and which overhangs a pedestrian walkway. A
                marquee may extend into the public right of way but not closer than two feet (2')
                to the curb line.
                A tract of land or two (2) or more contiguous tracts of land upon which five (5) or
MANUFACTURED    more independent manufactured homes are located for permanent habitation either
HOME COMMUNITY: free of charge or for revenue purposes and shall include any building, structure,
                vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such
                Manufactured Home Community.
NAMEPLATE:      A sign, which displays only the name and/or address of the occupant, is non
                electrical and does not exceed one (1) square foot in area.
                Any building, structure, or land lawfully occupied by a use or lawfully established
NONCONFORMING   at the time of the adoption of the original Zoning Ordinance or amendments thereto,
USE:            which does not conform after the passage of the ordinance or amendments thereto
                with the use regulations of the district in which it is situated.
                Material which is capable of causing injury to living organisms by chemical
NOXIOUS MATTER: reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the psychological,
                social, or economic well being of human beings.
                A building containing facilities for the care and home of aged, chronically ill,
                infirm, or incurable persons, or a place of rest for those persons suffering bodily
                disorders, in which three (3) or more persons, not members of the family residing
NURSING HOME:   on the premises are received and provided with food, shelter, and care, and which
                is licensed by the State of Illinois as an extended care facility, but not
                including hospitals, clinics, or similar institutions devoted primarily to the
                diagnosis and treatment of disease or injury, maternity cases, or mental illness.
OCTAVE BAND:    A means of dividing the range of sound frequencies into octaves in order to
                classify sound according to pitch.
                An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to standards formulated by the
OCTAVE BAND     American Standards Association and used in conjunction with a sound level meter to
FILTER:         take measurements in specific octave intervals. (American Standard For Sound Level
                Meters, A.S.A. No.224.3-1944.)
                An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street or public way, designed, arranged,
PARKING AREA,   and made available for the storage of private passenger automobiles only, of
PRIVATE:        occupants of the building or buildings for which the parking area is developed and
                is accessory.
                An open, hard surfaced area, other than a street or public way, intended to be used
PARKING AREA,   for the storage of passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles under one and one
PUBLIC:         half (1-1/2) ton capacity and available to the public, whether for compensation,
                free or as an accommodation to clients or customers.
                Space within a public or private parking area or enclosed garage or carport of not
PARKING SPACE;  less than one hundred sixty two (162) square feet (9 feet x 22 feet), exclusive of
AUTOMOBILE:     access drives, or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work areas, for the storage
                of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle of not less than eight thousand
                (8,000) gross pounds.
PARTICULATE     Material which is suspended in or discharged into the atmosphere in finely divided
MATTER:         form as a liquid or solid at atmospheric pressure and temperature.
PERFORMANCE     A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire
STANDARD:       and explosive hazards, or glare or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or
                buildings.
PERSON WITH     A mentally or physically impaired person.
DISABILITIES:
                A tract of land which is developed as a unit under single ownership or control,
PLANNED         which includes two (2) or more principal buildings, and which is at least four (4)
DEVELOPMENT:    acres in area, except for planned developments operated by a municipal corporation
                which shall be at least two (2) acres in area, and planned manufacturing
                developments, which shall be at least ten (10) acres in area.
PORCH:          A roofed over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a main structure
                and commonly open to the weather in part.
PRINCIPAL USE:  The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a subordinate or accessory
                use.
PUBLIC OPEN     Any publicly owned open area including, but not limited to, the following: parks,
SPACE:          playgrounds, forest preserves, waterways, parkways, and streets.
                Any person, firm, corporation, or municipal department, duly authorized to furnish
PUBLIC UTILITY: under public regulation to the public electricity, gas, steam, telephone,
                transportation, or water.
                Any building or part thereof, other than a boarding house, where food or meals are
                provided for compensation, for consumption on the premises, inside a building,
RESTAURANT:     including a cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, dining room, lunchroom, or tearoom, and
                including the serving of alcoholic beverages when served with and incidental to the
                serving of meals.
RESTAURANT,     Any land, building, or part thereof, where food or meals are served for
DRIVE IN:       compensation to occupants remaining in motor vehicles.
RESTAURANT,     Any building or part thereof where the principal part of the business is providing
FAST FOOD,      food or meals for compensation, in disposable wrappers or containers, for
CARRY OUT:      consumption within the principal building or on or off the premises where prepared.
RINGELMANN      A chart, which is described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines Information Circular 6888,
CHART:          and on which are illustrated graduated shades of gray for use in estimating the
                light obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN      The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that coincides most nearly with the
NUMBER:         visual density of smoke emission.
                A detached structure constructed per the applicable Building Code. They are
SHED:           classified as accessory structures. The set back requirements are based on the
                Zoning District.
                Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof which is used to
                advertise, identify, display, direct, or attract attention to an object, place,
                person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event, or location
                by any means including words, letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors,
SIGN:           motion, illumination or projected images. The term "sign" includes, but is not
                limited to, every projecting sign, freestanding sign, ground sign, pole sign,
                window sign, vehicle sign, awning, canopy, marquee, changeable copy sign,
                illuminated sign, flashing sign, animated sign, a temporary sign, portable sign,
                pennant, banner, streamer, or any other attention getting device, or other display,
                whether affixed to or separate from any building.
SIGN,           A sign, which directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or entertainment
ADVERTISING     conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than upon the premises where such sign is
(BILLBOARD):    located or to which it is affixed.
                A sign which directs attention to a business or profession conducted or to a
SIGN, BUSINESS: commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises, which such
                sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, CHURCH    A sign attached to the exterior of a church or located elsewhere on the church
BULLETIN BOARD: premises, used to indicate the services or activities of the church and including
                its name if desired.
                The total exposed surface devoted to the sign's message, including all
                ornamentation, embellishment, and symbols, but excluding the supporting structure,
                which does not form part of the sign proper or of the display. The area of a sign
SIGN SURFACE    composed of characters or words attached to a wall and/or window surface shall be
AREA:           the smallest rectangle, which encloses the whole group. In the case of a ground
                sign with more than one exterior surface containing items of information, the sign
                surface area shall be computed as including only the maximum single display
                surface, which is visible from any one ground position.
SIGN,           A structure, building wall, or other outdoor surface used to display and identify
IDENTIFICATION: the name of the individual, business, profession, organization, or institution
                occupying the premises upon which it is located.
                The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in Ringelmann numbers by the
                time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this definition, Ringelmann density
SMOKE UNITS:    reading is made at least once every minute during the period of observation; each
                reading is then multiplied by the time in minutes during which it is observed, and
                the various products are added together to give the total number of smoke units
                observed during the total period under observation.
SOUND LEVEL     An instrument standardized by the American Standards Association for measurement of
METER:          the intensity of sound.
STACKING        The number of cars that must be accommodated in a reservoir space while awaiting
REQUIREMENTS:   ingress or egress to specified business or service establishments.
                That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the
                surface of the floor above it, or if there is no floor above, then the space
STORY:          between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of a story exceeding
                fourteen feet (14') in height shall be considered as an additional story for each
                fourteen feet (14') or fraction thereof.
STORY, HALF:    A space under a sloping roof having an average clear height of seven feet six
                inches (7'6") over not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area.
STREET:         A public way, other than an alley, which affords a primary means of access to
                abutting property.
                Any change in the supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns,
STRUCTURAL      beams, or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls,
ALTERATION:     excepting such repair or replacement as may be required for the safety of the
                building.
                Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground or is
STRUCTURE:      attached to something having location on the ground, including a fence or
                freestanding wall. A sign, billboard, or other advertising medium, detached or
                projecting, shall be construed to be a structure.
                Any temporary or permanent artificial pool or receptacle for water installed,
                constructed, or maintained in, on, or above the ground, not including those
                enclosed and located entirely within a dwelling, having a perimeter of more than
                twenty five feet (25') and a depth of more than two feet (2') at any point. A
SWIMMING POOL:  swimming pool shall be considered an allowable use; provided, however, that a
                swimming pool use is customarily incident to a dwelling when located on the same
                lot therewith and designed and used for swimming or bathing in connection with such
                dwelling solely by the persons living therein or their private guests. No swimming
                pool can be the only structure on a lot.
TAVERN OR       A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises, but not including
LOUNGE:         restaurants where the principal business is serving food.
TOXIC           A substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which, by reason of an inherent deleterious
MATERIALS:      property, tends to destroy life or impair health.
                A vehicle without motive power used or adaptable for living, sleeping, business, or
                storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks,
TRAILER         horses, or skirting, which does not meet building code requirements and has been or
(Manufactured   reasonably may be equipped with wheels or other devices for transporting the
Home):          structure from place to place. The term "trailer" shall include "camp car" and
                "house car." A permanent foundation shall not change its character unless the
                entire structure is erected in accordance with prevailing municipal laws.
TRUCK PARKING   Any land used or intended to be used for the storage or parking of trucks,
AREA YARD:      trailers, and tractors, including commercial vehicles, while not loading or
                unloading.
USE:            The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged, or
                intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a subordinate or accessory
                use.
VEHICLE,        Any vehicle or trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power which is designed for
RECREATIONAL:   recreational activity or short term living accommodation.
                An open space on the same Zoning lot with a principal building or group of
                buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level upward,
YARD:           except as otherwise permitted herein, and which extends along a lot line and at
                right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
                district in which the Zoning lot is located.
YARD, FRONT:    A yard extending along the full length of the front lot line between the side lot
                lines.
                The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal building or use, located
YARD, REAR:     between the rear line of the building or use and the rear lot line and extending
                for the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE:     A yard extending along a side lot line from the front yard to the rear yard.
                A single tract of land located within a single block which (at the time of filing
ZONING LOT:     for a building permit) is designated by its owner or developer as a tract to be
                used, developed, or built upon as a unit under single ownership or control.
                Therefore, a "Zoning lot" may or may not coincide with a lot of record.
                The map incorporated herein as a part hereof, designating Zoning Districts. (1985
ZONING MAP:     Code § 9-1-3; amd. Ord. 92-14, 7-13-1992; Ord. 92-21, 6-8-1992; Ord. 96-14, 10-14-
                1996; 2016 Code; Ord. 20-08, 3-9-2020; Ord. 21-06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-
                2022)
 
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Compliance With District Regulations
10-2-2: Lots
10-2-3: Structure Requirements
10-2-4: Accessory Buildings
10-2-5: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-2-6: Cement And/Or Asphalt Plants
10-2-7: Miscellaneous Provisions
10-2-8: Parking
10-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which the building
or land is located.
   B.   No building or structure other than a building for conditional use
shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or structurally altered
except in conformity with the area regulations of the Zone in which the
building is located. (1985 Code § 9-2-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-2-2: LOTS:
   A.   Previously Recorded Lots: Any separate lot, the Title of which was of
record at the effective date hereof, that does not meet the requirements of
this Title for yards, courts, or other area of open space, may be utilized for
single residence purposes; provided, the requirements for such yard or court or
lot area, width, depth or open space is within seventy five percent (75%) of
that required by this Chapter. The purpose of this subsection is to permit
utilization of recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as
reasonable living standards can be provided.
   B.   Number Of Buildings On A Lot: Every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered to provide dwelling units shall be located on a "lot," as
defined in section
10-1-4 of this Title, and in no cases shall there be more than one such
building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this Title. Party walls are
hereby expressly prohibited.
   C.   Open Spaces:
      1.   Space Requirements Applicable To One Building Only: No space for
which, for the purpose of a building or dwelling group, has been counted or
calculated as part of a side yard, rear yard, front yard, court, or other open
space required by this Chapter may, by reason of change in ownership or
otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply with a yard, court or
other space requirement of or for any other building.
      2.   Projections Into Open Spaces:
         a.   An open terrace, but not including a roofed over porch or
terrace, may occupy a front yard, provided the unoccupied portion of the front
yard has a depth of not less than fifteen feet (15').
         b.   A one-story bay window may project into a front yard, not more
than three feet (3').
         c.   Overhanging eaves, including gutters, may project over the
minimum required side yard, not more than eighteen inches (18").
   D.   Street Access: No building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot
or parcel of land which does not abut upon a public street or have permanent
easement for access to a public street, which easement shall have a minimum
width of twenty five feet (25') unless an easement of lesser width was of
record prior to the effective date hereof. (1985 Code § 9-2-2; amd. Ord. 22-04,
4-11-2022)
10-2-3: STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Setbacks:
      1.   Minimum: In addition to the setback requirements in any district
herein set forth, every part of a building or structure hereinafter erected or
relocated shall be located or set back:
         a.   From the established centerline of any section, line road, or
street, at least fifty feet (50').
         b.   From the established centerline of every half, section line road
or street, at least forty feet (40').
         c.   From the established centerline of every other road or street
fronting a lot or building plat, at least thirty three feet (33').
         d.   The minimum setback on Joliet Road (U.S. Route 66) and LaGrange
Road (U.S. Route 45) shall be at least fifty feet (50').
         e.   From the established centerline of said road or street, the
minimum setback on Stevenson Highway (I-55) shall be at least twenty feet (20')
from its closest right of way line.
         f.   Fences in R and R-2 Districts in alleyways shall have a minimum
setback of six feet (6') from the edge of the alley.
         g.   Fences located at ingress/egress to all alleyways shall have a
setback of ten feet (10') from the edge of the alley; for corner properties, a
five foot (5') setback from the edge of the sidewalk.
         h.   All fences in R and R-2 districts within twenty feet (20") of the
sidewalk shall be a maximum of four feet (4") in height. After twenty feet
(20'), fences shall have a maximum height of six feet (6'). For corner
properties, a five foot (5') line of site shall be required, with the exception
of junkyards. Fences shall not have any barbs or sharp points at the top
thereof.
         i.   All garages in R and R-2 Districts in alleyways shall have a
minimum setback of five feet (5') from the edge of the alley.
      2.   Alteration for Public Building: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
have the power to recommend to the Village Board the alteration of the required
setback line in case of public or semipublic buildings after a public hearing
and after a showing that such action will not cause damage and will be in
accord with the general purpose of this Title.
   B.   Height: No structure may be erected to exceed in height the height
limits of the district in which it is located. Antennas, however, may exceed
the height limits by ten feet (10') over the highest point of the roof.
   C.   View at Intersections: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain,
or permit to remain, any fence or other structure on a corner lot within fifty
feet (50') of the street line, which obstructs the view at a height of more
than five feet (5') above the level of the adjacent street pavement.
   D.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   No basement in any dwelling shall be used for nor shall it contain
any quarters for sleeping or cooking unless used by the family living above.
      2.   No half story shall contain cooking facilities, and any space
therein may be used only by the family living on the floor immediately below.
   E.   Billboard Obstructions:
      1.   No portion of a newly installed billboard structure (including the
sign column, sign apron, or walkway) shall obstruct the visibility of the
advertising face of an existing billboard within a distance of one thousand
feet (1,000') from either direction on the road or highway.
      2.   The distance of one thousand feet (1,000') shall be measured from
the farthest point of the existing billboard on the same side of the road or
highway to the middle of the viewing lane of the same road or highway.
      3.   The application process shall include all necessary plats of survey
and other documentation to assure compliance with this subsection E. (1985 Code
§ 9-2-3; amd. Ord. 05-12, 6-13-2005; Ord. 05-25, 10-10-2005; Ord. 11-02, 3-14-
2011, eff. 3-15-2011; 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-2-4: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted or prohibited in this Title,
shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Where an accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject and must conform to all regulations of this Title
applicable to the main building.
   B.   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') to any main building.
   C.   An accessory building shall not be erected prior to the establishment
or construction of the principal use or building.
   D.   The setbacks are determined by the Zoning District. (1985 Code § 9-2-4;
amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-2-5: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
The following uses of land or structures, or both, may be permitted within any
LM or HM use district, subject to specific provisions of this Title:
Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment Facilities.
Extraction of gravel, sand, or other raw materials.
Municipal or privately owned recreation buildings or a community center.
Nursery schools, day nurseries, and childcare centers, provided there is a
minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to
be cared for and that the play area is fenced or screened from any adjoining
lot in any Residence Zone with planting.
Parking area, public, except for trucks over eight thousand (8,000) pounds.
Places of religious worship used for religious teaching and accessory
buildings.
Police stations, fire stations, or places for storage of municipal equipment.
Public administration building, auditorium, gymnasium, or any other publicly
owned structure.
Public or private park or playground.
Public utility facilities, filtration plant or pumping station, heat or power
plant, transformer station, and other similar facilities.
Radio and television antenna towers, commercial.
Railroad right of way, switch tracks, and rail connection facilities, but
excluding a general railroad terminal.
Schools, public or private. Telephone exchange. (1985 Code § 9-2-5; amd. 2016
Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-2-6: CEMENT AND/OR ASPHALT PLANTS:
Except within the cement and asphalt plant CA Zone designated pursuant to
Chapter 6, Article C of this Title where it shall be permitted use, elsewhere
within the boundaries of the Village, cement and/or asphalt plants are declared
and designated as a "special use" of real estate and, therefore, subject to the
rules and regulations as set forth in Chapter 12 of this Title. (Ord. 09-10,
10-12-2009; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-2-7: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Water and Sewage Disposal: All buildings erected or altered shall be
served by the water and sanitary sewer systems of the Village.
   B.   Water Pollution Control: No land shall be used or business permitted in
any Zone District, which will dispose into the waters of the Village any
organic or inorganic matter or wastes that shall cause pollution of such
waters. (1985 Code § 9-2-8; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-2-8: PARKING:
   A.   Parking is allowed in established parking areas and lots and on streets
based on the Zoning District.
   B.   All parking surfaces shall be concrete or asphalt.
   C.   No parking is allowed on grass or any unpaved hard surface. (Ord. 22-
04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Districts Established
10-3-2: Zoning Map
10-3-3: Zoning Of Annexed Land
10-3-4: Rezoning Of Public Lands
10-3-5: Performance Standards
10-3-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, the village shall be and is hereby divided into
zoning districts as follows:
R Residence zone
R   Residence zone
R-2 Residence and multiple dwelling zone
C   Commercial zone
LM  Light manufacturing zone
HM  Heavy manufacturing zone
CA  Cement and asphalt plant zone
S   Special use zone(s)
PUB Public lands
MH  Manufactured home community
 
(1985 Code § 9-3-1; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-3-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Authorization and Location of Map: The boundaries of the districts are
as indicated on the Zoning map of the Village, a copy of which is on file in
the office of the Village Clerk in the Village Hall and is identified on its
face as part of this Title. Said zoning map, with all notations, references,
and other matters thereon, is as much a part of this Title as if such
notations, references, and other matters were specifically set forth herein. No
building shall be erected or altered, nor shall any building or premises be
used for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which said
building or premises is located, except as provided in Chapter 11 of this Title
relating to nonconforming uses.
   B.   Interpretation Of District Boundaries: In the event, uncertainties
exist with respect to the intended boundaries of the various districts as shown
on the Zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   The district boundaries are the centerlines of streets unless
otherwise indicated, and where the designation of a boundary line on the Zoning
map coincides with the location of a street, the centerline of such street
shall be construed to be the boundary of such districts.
      2.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets but do coincide with lot lines; such lot lines shall be construed to be
the boundary of such districts.
      3.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets or lot lines, the district boundaries shall be determined by the use of
the scale indicated on the Zoning map. (1985 Code § 9-3-2; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-
11-2022)
10-3-3: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Areas annexed to the Village shall be Zoned only after a public hearing as
provided for by statute. It shall be the duty of the Village President to
immediately appoint a Zoning Committee to hear and consider the Zoning of such
areas annexed and to make its recommendations to the Village Board. Until such
public hearing and Zoning, the area so annexed shall be deemed to be Zoned in
the district in which it was under any other comprehensive Municipal Zoning
Ordinance prior to its annexation. (1985 Code § 9-3-3; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-
2022)
10-3-4: REZONING OF PUBLIC LANDS:
An area indicated on the official Zoning map as a municipal area, public lands,
public park or recreation area, public utility area, cemetery, public school
site, or semipublic open space shall not be used for any other purpose, and
when the use of the area is discontinued, it shall automatically be Zoned R-
2 Residence and Multiple Dwelling Zone, until otherwise Zoned. (1985 Code § 9-
3-4; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-3-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Jurisdiction: Any use hereafter established in any Zoning District in
the Village shall be used and maintained in such a manner as to comply with
applicable performance standards as hereinafter set forth governing noise,
smoke, particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, odors, fire, and explosive
hazards, vibration, radiation, or glare or heat for the district in which such
use shall be located; and no use already established on the effective date
hereof shall be so altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict
with applicable performance standards for the district in which such use is
located.
   B.   Noise: Each land use must conform to the standards set forth in the
Hodgkins noise ordinance, as follows:
      1.   General Provisions:
         a.   Definitions: Except as hereinafter stated, and unless a different
meaning of a term is clear from its context, the definitions of terms used in
this subsection shall be the same as those used in the Illinois Environmental
Protection Act. All definitions of acoustical terminology shall be in
conformance with those contained in ANSI S1.1-1960 "Acoustical Terminology" or
subsequent revisions.
ANSI:                                American National Standards Institute or
                                     its successor bodies.
                                     Every motor vehicle designed for carrying
                                     more than ten (10) passengers and used for
BUS:                                 the transportation of persons, and every
                                     motor vehicle, other than a taxicab,
                                     designed and used for the transportation
                                     of persons for compensation.
                                     On site erection, fabrication,
                                     installation, alteration, demolition, or
                                     removal of any structure, facility, or
CONSTRUCTION:                        addition thereto, including all related
                                     activities, including, but not restricted
                                     to, clearing of land, earthmoving,
                                     blasting, and landscaping.
dB (A):                              Sound level in decibels determined by the
                                     a weighting of a sound level meter.
DAYTIME HOURS:                       Seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock
                                     (7:00) P.M., local time.
                                     A unit of measure, on a logarithmic scale
                                     to the base 10, of the ratio of the
                                     magnitude of a particular sound pressure
DECIBEL (dB):                        to a standard reference pressure, which,
                                     for purposes of this subsection B, shall
                                     be twenty (20) micronewtons per square
                                     meter (uN/m2).
                                     Any property line noise source, the
                                     construction or establishment of which
                                     commenced prior to August 1, 1983. For the
EXISTING PROPERTY LINE NOISE SOURCE: purposes of this subsection B, any
                                     property line noise source whose class R1
                                     and use classification changes on or after
                                     August 1, 1983, shall not be considered an
                                     existing property line noise source.
                                     As specified by American National Standard
FAST METER RESPONSE:                 Institute in document S1.4-1971, or
                                     subsequent revisions.
                                     The maximum loaded weight for which a
                                     motor vehicle is registered, or for
GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT (GVW):          vehicles not so registered, the value
                                     specified by the manufacturer as the
                                     loaded weight of the vehicle.
                                     The entire width between the boundary
                                     lines of every way publicly maintained
HIGHWAY:                             when any part thereof is open to the use
                                     of the public for the purposes of
                                     vehicular travel.
                                     Every motorcycle, motor scooter, or
MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE:                  bicycle with a motor attached, with less
                                     than one hundred fifty (150) cubic
                                     centimeter piston displacement.
                                     Every vehicle, which is self-propelled,
MOTOR VEHICLE:                       and any combination of vehicles which are
                                     propelled or drawn by a vehicle which is
                                     self-propelled.
                                     Every motor vehicle having a seat or
MOTORCYCLE:                          saddle for the use of the rider and is
                                     designed to travel on not more than three
                                     (3) wheels in contact with the ground.
                                     Any property line noise source, the
NEW PROPERTY LINE NOISE SOURCE:      establishment of which commenced on or
                                     after August 1, 1983.
NIGHTTIME HOURS:                     Seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. to seven o'clock
                                     (7:00) A.M., local time.
                                     The emission of sound that unreasonably
NOISE POLLUTION:                     interferes with the enjoyment of life or
                                     with any lawful business or activity.
                                     A motor vehicle designed for the carrying
                                     of not more than ten (10) persons,
                                     including a multipurpose passenger
PASSENGER CAR:                       vehicle, except any motor vehicle of the
                                     second division as defined by 625 Illinois
                                     Compiled Statutes 5/1-146, and except any
                                     motorcycle or motor driven cycle.
                                     Any individual, corporation, partnership,
                                     firm, association, trust, estate, a public
                                     or private institution, group, agency,
PERSON:                              political subdivision of this state, or
                                     any state or political subdivision or
                                     agency thereof or any legal successor,
                                     representative, agent or agency of the
                                     foregoing.
                                     Any equipment or facility, or a
                                     combination thereof, which operates within
                                     any land used as specified by subsection
PROPERTY LINE NOISE SOURCE:          B2a of this section. Such equipment or
                                     facility, or a combination thereof, must
                                     be capable of emitting sound beyond the
                                     property line of the land on which
                                     operated.
                                     A self-propelled device designed for
SNOWMOBILE:                          travel on snow or ice or natural terrain
                                     steered by skis or runners and supported
                                     in part by skis, belts, or cleats.
SOUND:                               An oscillation in pressure in the air.
                                     In decibels, a weighted sound pressure
                                     level determined by the use of metering
SOUND LEVEL:                         characteristics and frequency weightings
                                     specified in ANSI S1.4-1971
                                     "Specifications for Sound Level Meters" or
                                     subsequent revisions.
                                     In decibels, twenty (20) times the
                                     logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL:                the magnitude of particular sound pressure
                                     to the standard reference pressure. The
                                     standard reference pressure is twenty (20)
                                     micronewtons per square meter.
                                     Every vehicle not designed or used
                                     primarily for the transportation of
                                     persons or property and only incidentally
                                     operated or moved over a highway,
                                     including, but not limited to ditch
                                     digging machinery and road construction
                                     and maintenance machinery such as asphalt
SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT:            spreaders, bituminous mixers, bucket
                                     loaders, tractors other than truck-
                                     tractors, leveling graders, finishing
                                     machines, motor graders, road rollers,
                                     scarifiers, earthmoving carryalls and
                                     scrapers, power shovels and drag lines,
                                     and self-propelled cranes and other
                                     earthmoving equipment.
                                     A safety relief valve used and designed to
                                     be actuated by high pressure in the pipe
                                     or vessel to which it is connected and
UNREGULATED SAFETY RELIEF VALVE:     which is used and designed to prevent
                                     explosion or other hazardous reaction from
                                     pressure buildup, rather than being used
                                     and designed as a process pressure
                                     blowdown.
 
         b.   Prohibition of Noise Pollution: No person shall cause or allow
the emission of sound beyond the boundaries of his property, as property is
defined in subsection B2a of this section, to cause noise pollution within the
corporate limits of the Village or to violate any provision of this subsection
B.
         c.   Measurement Procedures: The Village shall follow measurement
procedures, which are consistent with those adopted by the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
         d.   Burden Of Persuasion Regarding Exceptions: In any proceeding
pursuant to this subsection, if an exception stated in this subsection would
limit a liability or eliminate either an obligation or a liability, the person
who would benefit from the application of the exception shall have the burden
of persuasion that the exception applies and that the terms of the exception
have been met. The Village shall cooperate with and assist persons in
determining the application of the provisions of this Chapter.
         e.   Severability: If any provision of these rules or regulations is
adjudged invalid, or if the application thereof to any person or in any
circumstance is adjudged invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity
of this subsection B as a whole or of any part, subpart, sentence or clause
thereof not adjudged invalid.
      2.   Sound Emission Standards and Limitations for Property Line Noise
Sources: All terms defined in subsection B1 of this section, which appear in
this subsection B2, have the same definitions specified by subsection B1a of
this section.
         a.   Classification Of Land According To Use:
Class R land use includes land classified by the Hodgkins Zoning Title for
single-family residence uses and multiple-family residence uses in Residence R
Zone and Residence R-2 Zone, and commercial property uses in Commercial C Zone.
Class land use includes land classified by Hodgkins Zoning District provisions
for light industry and any use not permitted by class R.
            (1)   Sound Emitted To Class R Land During Daytime Hours: No person
shall cause or allow the emission of sound during daytime hours from any
property line noise source to any receiving class R land which exceeds any
allowable A weighted sound pressure levels specified in table one (1) of this
section when measured at any point within such receiving class R land;
provided, however, that no measurement of A weighted sound pressure levels
shall be made less than twenty five feet (25') from such property line noise
source.
TABLE 1
ALLOWABLE A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS OF SOUND EMITTED TO ANY RECEIVING
CLASS R LAND FROM
 
Class I Land Class R Land
61 dB(A)     55 dB(A)
 
            (2)   Sound Emitted To Class R Land During Nighttime Hours: No
person shall cause or allow the emission of sound during nighttime hours from
any property line noise source to any receiving class R land which exceeds any
allowable A weighted sound pressure level specified in table two (2) of this
section, when measured at any point within such receiving class R land;
provided, however, that no measurement of A weighted sound pressure levels
shall be made less than twenty five feet (25') from such property line noise
source.
TABLE 2
ALLOWABLE A-WEIGHTED BAND SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS OF SOUND EMITTED TO ANY
RECEIVING CLASS R LAND FROM
 
Class I Land Class R Land
51 dB(A)     45 dB(A)
 
Exceptions to Subsection B2a:
            (3)   Subsections B2a (1) and B2a (2) of this section shall not
apply to sound emitted from emergency warning devices and unregulated safety
relief valves.
            (4)   Subsections B2a(1) and B2a(2) of this section shall not apply
to sound emitted from lawn care maintenance equipment, snow blowers, or chain
saws used during daytime hours.
            (5)   Subsections B2a (1) and B2a (2) of this section shall not
apply to sound emitted from equipment being used for construction during the
hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. if approved by
the Village Administration.
            (6)   Subsection B2a(2) of this section shall not apply to sound
emitted from existing property line noise sources during nighttime hours;
provided; however, that sound emitted from such existing property line noise
sources shall be governed during nighttime hours by the limits specified in
subsection B2a(1) of this section.
            (7)   Subsections B2a(1) and B2a(2) of this section shall not apply
to the operation of any vehicle registered for highway use while such vehicle
is being operated within any land used as specified in subsection B2a of this
section in the course of ingress to or egress from a highway.
      3.   Sound Emission Standards And Limitations For Motor Vehicles:
         a.   Standards Applicable To All Passenger Cars And To Other Motor
Vehicles With GVW of Eight Thousand (8,000) Pounds Or Less:
            (1)   Applicability: This subsection shall apply to all passenger
cars regardless of weight and to other motor vehicles with a gross vehicle
weight of eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less, except motorcycles and motor
driven cycles.
            (2)   Standards For Highway Operation: No person shall operate or
cause or allow the operation of a motor vehicle subject to this rule at any
time under any conditions of highway grade, load, acceleration, or deceleration
in such a manner as to exceed the limit of seventy four (74) dB(A), on any
roadway within the corporate limits of the Village, as measured with fast meter
response at fifty feet (50') from the street line of travel or an equivalent
sound level limit measured in accordance with procedures established in
subsection B1c of this section.
         b.   Standards Applicable To Motor Vehicles With GVW In Excess of
Eight Thousand (8,000) Pounds.
            (1)   Applicability: This rule shall apply to motor vehicles with a
gross vehicle weight in excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds, except
passenger cars.
            (2)   Standards For Highway Operation: No person shall operate or
cause or allow the operation of a motor vehicle subject to this rule at any
time under any conditions of highway grade, load, acceleration, or deceleration
in a manner as to exceed eighty six (86) dB(A) on any roadway within the
corporate limits of the Village, as measured with fast meter response at fifty
five (50') from the centerline of the lane of travel, or an equivalent sound
level limit measured in accordance with procedures established in subsection
B1c of this section.
         c.   Standards Applicable To Motorcycles And Motor Driven Cycles:
            (1)   Applicability: This rule shall apply to all motorcycles and
motor driven cycles.
            (2)   Standards For Highway Operation: No person shall operate or
cause or allow the operation of a motor vehicle subject to this rule at any
time or under any conditions of highway grade, load, acceleration, or
deceleration in such a manner as to exceed eighty (80) dB(A) on any roadway
within the corporate limits of the Village as measured with fast meter response
at fifty feet (50') from the centerline of the lane of travel, or an equivalent
sound level limit measured in accordance with procedures established in
subsection B1c of this section.
         d.   Exceptions To This Subsection B3: The standards and limitations
of subsections B3a, B3b, and B3c of this section shall not apply to:
            (1)   Any vehicle used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
            (2)   Any lawn care maintenance equipment or snow blowers.
            (3)   Warning devices such as horns and sirens; or to emergency
equipment and vehicles such as fire engines, ambulances, police vans, and
rescue vans when responding to emergency calls or snowplows when in operation.
      4.   Miscellaneous Provisions:
         a.   Violation Of Noise Regulations On Public Property: Sound sources
such as radio, stereo, tape player, or other sound producing equipment shall
not exceed fifty five (55) dB(A) during daytime hours or forty five (45) dB(A)
during nighttime hours when measured in excess of twenty five feet (25') from
the sound source.
         b.   Church Bells: The standards for church bells shall be in
accordance with those set forth by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
         c.   Exception to This Subsection B4: The standards and limitations of
subsections B4a and B4b of this section shall not apply to Village approved
parades.
      5.   Compliance And Penalty:
         a.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the subsections in
this subsection B shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in the sum of not less
than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each offense.
   C.   Vibration: Each land use must conform with section
9-7-1-11 of this code, Chapter 56.
   D.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: Each land use must conform to the
standards set forth from time to time by the Air Pollution Control Ordinance of
the Village and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. Such standards
shall include, but not be limited to, the requirements as outlined in the
publication entitled "State of Illinois Smoke and Particulate Matter," adopted
by the Illinois Air Pollution Control Board and dated April 14, 1972, or
subsequent revisions.
   E.   Toxic Matter: Each land use must conform to the standards set forth
from time to time by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, whichever is more stringent.
   F.    Fire And Explosive Hazards:
      1.   Each land use must conform with section
9-7-1-11 of this code, Chapter 56.
      2.   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of solid materials or
products ranging from free or active burning to intense burning is permitted,
provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized, or
manufactured within completely enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior
walls and protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing system.
         b.   Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized, or
manufactured so as to comply with the Fire Code adopted in section
9-7-1-11 of this code.
   G.   Glare and Heat: Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to
create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines. Exposed sources of light
shall be shielded so as not to create a nuisance across lot lines.
   H.   Odorous Matter: Each land use must conform to the standards set forth
from time to time by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. Such
standards shall include, but not be limited to, the requirements as outlined in
the publication entitled "State of Illinois Odorous Matter," adopted by the
Illinois Air Pollution Control Board and dated April 14, 1972, or subsequent
revisions.
   I.   Radiation Hazards:
      1.   Release Outside Property Lines: In any district, the release of
radioactive materials or the emission of ionizing radiation outside of property
lines shall be in accordance with the standards set forth from time to time by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. Such standards shall include, but
not be limited to, the requirements as outlined in the rules and regulations of
the State of Illinois "Rules and Regulations for Prevention of Radiation
Hazards," adopted April 18, 1961, amended May 15, 1967, or subsequent
revisions.
      2.   Unsealed Radioactive Materials: In any district, unsealed
radioactive materials shall not be manufactured, utilized, or stored except
when such materials are stored in a fireproof container at or below ground
level.
   J.   Water Pollution: Each land use must conform to the standards set forth
from time to time by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. Such
standards shall include, but not be limited to, the requirements as outlined in
the publication entitled "Water Pollution Regulations of Illinois," dated March
7, 1972 (Division of Water Pollution Control) or subsequent revisions. (1985
Code § 9-3-5; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENCE ZONES
ARTICLE A. RESIDENCE R ZONE
SECTION:
10-4A-1: Uses Permitted
10-4A-2: Site And Structure Requirements
10-4A-3: Performance Standards
10-4A-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Residence R Zone:
Accessory buildings.
Automobile parking space to be provided as required in Chapter 10 of this
Title. Places of religious worship and home occupations as defined in section
10-1-4 of this Title with restrictions listed below.
Publicly owned buildings and lands.
Signs. One on each lot not exceeding six (6) square feet in area pertaining to
the lease or sale of the building or premises on which the sign is located. See
Chapter 13 for additional sign requirements.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one (1) year.
Truck gardening and other horticultural uses, where no building is involved and
not operated for profit. (1985 Code § 9-4A-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-4A-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any
building or structure, shall be hereafter erected or maintained in the
Residence R Zone to exceed two and one half (2-1/2) stories, nor shall it
exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
   B.   Areas: No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or
structure, in the Residence R Zone shall be hereafter erected or maintained
unless the following described yards and lot areas are provided and maintained
in connection with such building, structure or enlargement:
      1.   Yards:
         a.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall
have a front yard of not less than twenty feet (20'). Where lots comprising
forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage between two (2) intersecting
streets are developed with buildings having front yards with a variation of not
more than fifteen feet (15') in depth, the average of such front yards shall
establish the minimum front yard depth for the entire frontage. In no case
shall a front yard of more than twenty feet (20') be required.
         b.   Side Yard:
            (1)   Interior Lots: On interior lots, there shall be a side yard
on each side of a main building having a width of not less than five feet (5')
or less than ten percent (10%) of the lot width, whichever is greater.
            (2)   Corner Lots: On corner lots, the side yard requirements shall
be the same as for interior lots; except that there shall be maintained a side
yard of not less than ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to the street, which
intersects the street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage.
            (3)   Reversed Corner Lots: On a reversed corner lot, there shall
be maintained a setback from the side street of not less than fifty percent
(50%) of the front yard required on the lots in the rear of such corner lots,
but such setback need not exceed twenty feet (20'). No accessory building on a
reversed corner lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the
adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located nearer than three feet (3') to the
side lot line of an adjacent lot.
         c.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having an average depth of
not less than thirty feet (30') and not less than six (6') feet in any one
location.
   C.   Yard obstructions allowed.
      1.   All other allowances and restrictions are applicable.
         a.   Front - Bow or bay windows, trellises, fences, sidewalks, and
driveways.
         b.   Side yards - AC compressors, bow or bay windows, sidewalks,
driveways, generators, and chimneys.
         c.   Rear yards - AC compressors, bow or bay windows, sidewalks,
driveways, generators, and chimneys.
      2.   Lot Coverage: Not more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a lot
may be covered by main buildings, structures, or accessory buildings.
      3.   Lot Area: Every dwelling erected or structurally altered shall be on
a lot having an area of not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet and a
width at the established building line of not less than fifty feet (50');
provided, however, that a single lot having less area and width, the title to
which has been recorded before the effective date hereof, may be improved with
a single-family dwelling, provided all yards and open spaces are within seventy
five percent (75%) of those required herein; and provided further, the total
lot area is not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      4.   Accessory Buildings:
         a.   Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the front yard. They
may encroach upon the side yards, provided no buildings are closer to the lot
lines than three feet (3') and provided further that on a corner lot, accessory
buildings shall not encroach upon the front or side yards adjacent to the
abutting streets.
         b.   Accessory buildings shall include within its definition garages,
and any garage size may be used, provided that the floor dimensions do not
exceed nine hundred sixty (960) square feet and a maximum height of seventeen
feet (17') from the finished floor.
         c.   All newly constructed attached garages or additions to existing
garages shall have the roofline conform with the main building's roof line. A
secondary roofline is not allowed.
         d.   The total area of the accessory building and main building shall
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the lot size area.
         e.   The total area of a shed and a garage shall not exceed nine
hundred sixty (960 square feet.
      5.   Shed shall not be closer than ten feet (10') to the primary
structure, a minimum of three (3') feet from the side and rear yard, not
allowed in the front yard, and have a maximum height of twelve feet (12').
   D.   Size Of Dwelling:
      1.   Every one-story dwelling erected in any Residence R Zone shall have
a total ground floor area of not less than one thousand three hundred fifty
(1,350) square feet, measured from the outside of the exterior walls, but
excluding porches, garages, and other spaces that are not used frequently or
during extended periods for living, eating, or sleeping purposes, except that
rooms intended for such purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed
within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such ground floor
areas.
      2.   Every dwelling of more than one story erected in any Residence R
Zone shall have a total floor area, measured from the outside of the exterior
walls, of not less than one thousand six hundred eighty (1,680) square feet,
including utility rooms but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, garages
and other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods of
time for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except, that rooms intended for
such purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed within a
reasonable time may be considered in computing such ground floor area.
   E.   Use of Basement: The basement can be used as additional living area but
shall not be used as a separate apartment or living unit.
   F.   Home Occupation Restrictions are as follows:
      1.   No vehicles requiring greater than a B plate are allowed in the home
driveway.
      2.   A maximum of one company vehicle with a B plate is allowed to park
in the driveway.
      3.   The primary driver of the company vehicle shall reside in the home.
(1985 Code § 9-4A-2; amd. Ord. 97-13, 4-14-1997; Ord. 00-06, 4-10-2000; Ord.
06-13, 8-14-2006; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-4A-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises, and uses permitted in this district are subject to the
applicable performance standards in section
10-3-4 of this Title. (1985 Code § 9-4A-3; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENCE AND MULTIPLE DWELLING R-2 ZONE
SECTION:
10-4B-1: Uses Permitted
10-4B-2: Site And Structure Requirements
10-4B-3: Performance Standards
10-4B-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted in the residence and Multiple Dwelling R-
2 Zone: Any use permitted in the Residence R Zone. Multiple dwellings, but not
for more than three (3) dwelling units two-family dwelling structures. (1985
Code § 9-4B-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-4B-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall be erected or enlarged in the
Residence and Multiple Dwelling R-2 Zone to exceed two and one half (2-1/2')
stories in height, and no more than one family per story shall be permitted to
occupy said dwelling. The height of each dwelling in an R-2 Zone shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35') to the ridgepole and twenty five feet (25') to
the eaves of said dwelling.
   B.   Areas: No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing structure
be enlarged or altered in the residence and Multiple Dwelling R-2 Zone unless
the following yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection
with such building, structure, or enlargement:
      1.   Minimum Floor Area: Each family dwelling unit in two-family
structures erected, converted, or reconstructed in any residence and Multiple
Dwelling R-2 Zone shall have a total ground floor area of not less than eight
hundred fifty (850) square feet.
      2.   Setbacks:
         a.   There will be a five foot (5') setback on the minimum side of the
dwelling with a minimum seventeen foot (17') paved (concrete or asphalt) drive
on the maximum side of the building to extend the length of the dwelling or
large enough to provide for two (2) parking spaces per dwelling unit.
         b.   The front yard is to conform with the requirements set forth for
property located in an R Zone.
         c.   There will be a fifty foot (50') minimum from the rear of the
dwelling to the property line establishing a minimum fifty foot (50') backyard.
         d.   See allowable obstruction in the previous section.
   C.   Lot Coverage:
      1.   The total area of an accessory building and the main building shall
not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the lot size area.
      2.   Every dwelling erected or structurally altered to accommodate two-
family dwelling units shall be on a lot having a width at the established
building line of not less than fifty feet (50') and an area per dwelling unit
of not less than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet.
   D.   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   An accessory building shall include, within its definition, garages,
and any garage size may be used, provided that the floor dimensions do not
exceed nine hundred sixty (960) square feet and a maximum height of seventeen
feet (17') from the finished floor.
      2.   An accessory building may be constructed on the minimum fifty foot
(50') backyard.
      3.   The maximum total combined area of a garage and a shed shall be nine
hundred sixty (960) square feet.
   E.   Parking: There shall be no vehicle parking in front of the building.
All such parking shall be restricted to the side or rear of the building as
provided herein. (See section
10-10-1 for parking requirements)
   F.   Garbage Receptacles: Garbage receptacles shall be restricted to one
designated contained area. The designated area for the garbage receptacle shall
not be in front of the building. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-4B-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises, and uses permitted in this district are subject to the
applicable performance standards in section
10-3-4 of this Title. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 5
COMMERCIAL C ZONE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Uses Permitted
10-5-2: Building Height
10-5-3: Yard Areas
10-5-4: Performance Standards
10-5-5: Accessibility For Persons With Disabilities
10-5-6: Cannabis Related Facilities
10-5-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Commercial C Zone:
Agricultural implement sales and service conducted wholly within completely
enclosed buildings.
Auction rooms.
Auditoriums.
Automobile sales rooms for sale of new and used cars (where display and sale of
new and used cars are under the roof).
Beverage distributors, but not including bottling plants.
Business and professional offices.
Cannabis related facilities (See Chapter 14 for additional requirements).
Clubs, lodges, or fraternal organizations when not operated for profit.
Dwelling units; provided they are located above the first floor and above a
business use permitted in this district; and provided further, no more than two
(2) dwelling units are constructed; and provided further, each dwelling unit
shall meet the minimum square foot requirements provided in subsection 10-4 of
this Title.
Hotels.
Launderettes and laundromats.
Massage establishments.
Meat market or poultry stores, if no slaughter or stripping is involved.
Motels.
Printing and bookbinding.
Restaurants.
Retail commercial business.
Schools.
Signs. One for sale or lease sign not exceeding twenty (20) square feet in
area, or a sign advertising the occupant's business and not exceeding one
hundred (100) square feet in area.
Taverns or retail sale of alcoholic liquors, subject to the regulations of
other provisions of this code. Temporary buildings incidental only to
construction of a permitted use.
Theaters, indoor (not including outdoor theaters).
Undertaking establishments.
Wholesale commercial business. (1985 Code § 9-5-1; amd. 2016 Code 9-4B-1; Ord.
22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-5-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered in the
Commercial C Zone to exceed a height of three (3) stories, nor shall it exceed
forty five feet (45') in height (The height limitation does not apply to
parapets, walls, towers, spires, flagpoles, or similar structures). (1985 Code
§ 9-5-2 9-4B-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-5-3: YARD AREAS:
Yards shall be provided in accordance with the following regulations:
   A.   No building shall be erected or enlarged unless a front yard of not
less than twenty five feet (25') is provided and maintained.
   B.   Where lots in a C Zone front on the street and at least eighty percent
(80%) of the frontage directly across the street between two (2) consecutive
intersecting streets is in a Residence District, the front yard regulations for
the Residence District shall apply to said lots in the Commercial Zone.
   C.   In a C Zone, where a side lot line coincides with a side or rear lot
line of property in an adjacent Residential District, a yard shall be provided
along such side lot line. Such yard shall be equal in dimension to the minimum
side yard, which would be required under this Title for a residential use on
the adjacent property in the Residence District.
   D.   In a C Zone, where a rear lot line coincides with a side lot line of
property in an adjacent Residential District, a yard shall be provided along
such rear lot line. Such yard shall be equal in dimension to the minimum side
yard, which would be required under this Title for residential use on the
adjacent property in the Residence District.
   E.   In a C Zone, where a rear lot line coincides with a rear lot line of
property in an adjacent Residence District, a yard shall be provided along such
rear lot line. Such yard shall be twenty feet (20') in depth.
   F.   In a C Zone, where the extension of a front or side lot line coincides
with the front lot line of an adjacent lot located in a Residence District, a
yard of not less than ten feet (10') shall be provided.
   G.   All yards shall be unobstructed from the lowest level to the sky,
except as allowed in this Title. (Ord. 89-5, 6-12-1989; amd. 2016 Code 9-4B-1;
Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-5-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises, and uses permitted in this district are subject to the
applicable performance standards in section
10-3-4 of this Title. (1985 Code § 9-5-3; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-5-5: ACCESSIBILITY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
Any commercial facility either constructed or altered after the effective date
hereof shall comply with the applicable sections of federal and state laws in
effect regarding accessibility for persons with disabilities. (Ord. 92-21, 6-8-
1992; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-5-6: CANNABIS RELATED FACILITIES:
See Chapter 14 for additional requirements. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 6
MANUFACTURING ZONES
ARTICLE A. LIGHT MANUFACTURING LM ZONE
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Uses Permitted
10-6A-2: Accessory Uses Permitted
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses Permitted
10-6A-4: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6A-5: Accessibility For Persons With Disabilities
10-6A-6: Cannabis Related Facilities
10-6A-7: Performance Standards
10-6A-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted in the industrial Light Manufacturing LM
Zone:
Cannabis related facilities (See Chapter 14 for additional requirements).
Machine shops.
Maintenance shops.
Manufacturing.
Processing food; except the processing of food from animal or vegetable wastes
or fats, reduction of garbage, or slaughtering of animals, poultry, or fish.
Processing, material; except the processing of material from animal or
vegetable wastes or fats, reduction of garbage, or slaughtering of animals,
poultry, or fish.
Signs. Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof which is used
to advertise, identify, display, direct, or attract attention to an object,
place, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event, or
location by any means including words, letters, figures, designs, symbols,
fixtures, colors, motion, illumination or projected images. The term "sign"
includes, but is not limited to, every projecting sign, freestanding sign,
ground sign, pole sign, window sign, vehicle sign, awning, canopy, marquee,
changeable copy sign, illuminated sign, flashing sign, animated sign,a
temporary sign, portable sign, pennant, banner, streamer, or any other
attention-getting device, or other display, whether affixed to or separate from
any building.
Storage shall include warehouses and distribution establishments but shall not
include truck parking areas as defined in section
10-1-3 of this Title.
Wholesaling. (1985 Code § 9-6A-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6A-2: ACCESSORY USES PERMITTED:
Accessory uses incidental to the main use and on the same Zoned premises
including, but not limited to, offices, garages, parking areas, storage,
central heating, and air conditioning plants; facilities used solely for
operating, servicing, or maintaining improvements on said premises; overnight
accommodations for security and protective personnel; restaurant, and amenities
for employees shall be permitted in the Light Manufacturing LM Zone. (1985 Code
§ 9-6A-2; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES PERMITTED:
Conditional uses as set forth in section
10-2-5 of this Title shall be permitted in the Light Manufacturing LM Zone.
(1985 Code § 9-6A-3; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6A-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Building Height: No building or structure (except a water tower or
standpipe) shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a height of three
(3) stories, nor shall it exceed forty five feet (45') in height except as
provided in this Title, or provided:
      1.   Buildings or structures may be erected to a height of sixty feet
(60'), provided:
         a.   The building or structure is part of a Zoning lot exceeding one
hundred fifty (150) acres;
         b.   The building or structure is set back not less than six hundred
feet (600') from any adjoining Park District; and
         c.   The building or structure is set back not less than three hundred
feet (300') from a perimeter arterial highway and/or three hundred feet (300')
from any residential use.
      2.   Structures used for outdoor lighting or radio antennas may be
erected to a height of one hundred feet (100') provided:
         a.   If outdoor lighting is erected, only "down" lights with the light
housing constructed so that no part of the light source protrudes below the
bottom of the light frame or shield;
         b.   All light fixtures exceeding forty five feet (45') in height are
located not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') from a perimeter street or
highway and/or three hundred feet (300') from any residential use; and
         c.   If radio antennas are erected, any part of the antenna or
supporting structure exceeding fifty five feet (55') in height must be located
not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') from a perimeter street or highway
and/or three hundred feet (300') from any residential use.
   B.   Areas:
      1.   Lot Coverage: The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings
shall be not more than eighty percent (80%) of the area of the lot or tract on
which a building permit has been issued, provided that the following shall
always prevail.
      2.   Yards:
         a.   Front Yard:
            (1)   There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
ten feet (10') where there shall be no structure of any kind, open storage of
materials, equipment, or parking of vehicles, provided, however, that twenty
five percent (25%) of the frontage of the building facing the front yard may be
used for loading dock purposes.
            (2)   Said front yard shall be maintained with a green strip.
            (3)   Buildings constructed in which more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the frontage of the building facing the street is used for loading
dock purposes shall be set back so that a ten foot by twenty five foot (10' x
25') green strip shall be maintained.
            (4)   Driveways entering upon a public street shall not exceed
ninety feet (90') in width.
         b.   Side Yard:
            (1)   There shall be a minimum side yard of not less than ten feet
(10'), but where the property is adjacent to an R or R-2 Zone, there shall be a
side yard of not less than twenty five feet (25') on the side nearest to the
residential lot.
            (2)   The parking of any vehicle may be permitted within the side
yard areas but not closer than twenty five feet (25') to any lot Zoned for
residential use.
   C.   Rear Yard:
      1.   A rear yard of sixteen feet (16') is required; except that where a
lot abuts upon an R or R-2 Zone, a twenty five foot (25') rear yard is
required; provided, however, where the rear lot line abuts a railroad lead
right of way and the property is serviced with an enclosed service track, no
rear yard is required.
      2.   No materials or equipment shall be stored within twenty five feet
(25') of any residential lot or lots.
      3.   The parking of any vehicles may be permitted within the rear yard
area but not closer than twenty five feet (25') to any lot Zoned for
residential use.
   D.   All Yard Areas and Vacant Lots: Container storage is prohibited within
any yard area referred to herein or on any vacant lot. (1985 Code § 9-6A-4;
Ord. 91-18, 6-21-1991; amd. Ord. 98-11, 6-8-1998; Ord. 07-05, 4-9-2007; Ord.
08-10, 7-14-2008; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6A-5: ACCESSIBILITY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
Any industrial facility either constructed or altered after the effective date
hereof shall comply with the federal and state laws in effect regarding
accessibility for persons with disabilities. (Ord. 92-21, 6-8-1992; amd. 2016
Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6A-6: CANNABIS RELATED FACILITIES:
See Chapter 14 for additional requirements. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6A-7: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Buildings, premises, and uses permitted in this district are subject to the
applicable performance standards in section
10-3-4 of this Title. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
ARTICLE B. HEAVY MANUFACTURING HM ZONE
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Uses Permitted
10-6B-2: Uses Prohibited
10-6B-3: Site And Structure Requirements
10-6B-4: Performance Standards
10-6B-5: Accessibility For Persons With Disabilities
10-6B-1: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted in the industrial Heavy Manufacturing HM
Zone:
Any use permitted in the Light Manufacturing LM Zone.
Public services facilities, including electric, gas, and telephone distribution
substations and similar uses. Provided; however, any public service facility
described herein shall have any and all buildings or structures set back not
less than fifty feet (50') from a perimeter arterial highway, and said public
service facility adjoining a perimeter arterial highway shall be screened with
a berm not less than four and one half feet (4-1/2') in height, which berm
shall include tree plantings.
Rail yards, including intermodal yards and accessory repair, office, switching,
and storage facilities.
Storage shall include warehouses and distribution establishments and accessory
repair, office, and maintenance. This entry shall not affect any of the
territory which is the subject of a certain annexation agreement or amendments
thereto by and between the Village, Brookind Corporation, and the Santa Fe
Railway Company dated June 21, 1991.
Any other manufacturing or processing establishment, except as provided in
section
10-6B-2 of this article; provided, it shall be so operated so as to comply with
the performance standards governing toxic matter and noxious and odorous matter
as set forth in the Air Pollution Control Ordinance of the Village, and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Act, as amended, whichever is more stringent.
(1985 Code § 9-6B-1; amd. Ord. 91-18, 6-21-1991; Ord. 97-22, 10-21-1997; 2016
Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6B-2: USES PROHIBITED:
The processing of food or material from animal or vegetable wastes or fats,
reduction of garbage, or slaughtering of animals, poultry, or fish is
prohibited. (1985 Code § 9-6B-2; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6B-3: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
The height and area requirements shall be the same as set forth in section
10-6A-4 of this Chapter. (1985 Code § 9-6B-3; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6B-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Noise and Vibration: The standards for noise and vibration shall be the
same as set forth in subsections
10-3-4 B and C of this Title.
   B.   Smoke and Particulate Matter: The standards for smoke and particulate
matter shall be the same as set forth in subsection
10-3-4 D of this Title.
   C.   Fire and Explosive Hazards: The standards for fire and explosive
hazards shall be the same as set forth in subsection
10-3-4 F of this Title.
   D.   Glare and Heat: The standards for glare and heat shall be the same as
set forth in subsection
10-3-4 G of this Title. (1985 Code § 9-6B-4; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6B-5: ACCESSIBILITY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
Any industrial facility either constructed or altered after the effective date
hereof shall be constructed or altered in compliance with the applicable
sections of the federal and state laws regarding accessibility for persons with
disabilities. (Ord. 92-21, 6-8-1992; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
ARTICLE C. CEMENT AND ASPHALT PLANT CA ZONE
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Zone Designated; Purpose
10-6C-2: Uses Permitted
10-6C-3: Site Standards
10-6C-4: Accessibility For Persons With Disabilities
10-6C-1: ZONE DESIGNATED; PURPOSE:
On the Zoning map, the area defined and labeled as CA is hereby determined to
be a cement and asphalt plant Zone for the purpose of operating a cement and/or
asphalt plant and for the manufacture of products kindred thereto. (Ord. 09-10,
10-12-2009; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6C-2: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses shall be permitted in the cement and/or asphalt plant CA
Zone:
Any use permitted in the Light Manufacturing LM zone and the Commercial C Zone.
Asphalt plant.
Cement plant.
Crushing and recycling operation, including a dumping/transfer site for
concrete, stone, aggregates, and asphalt.
On site fueling of trucks, equipment, and vehicles.
Outdoor material and equipment storage.
Outdoor truck parking area. A business license for the operation of the parking
and storage is required.
Quality control and quality assurance testing and control laboratories,
equipment, and facilities for building and paving materials.
Repair facility for trucks, equipment, and vehicles including, but not limited
to, oil change, wash station, painting station, and welding facility. (Ord. 09-
10, 10-12-2009; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6C-3: SITE STANDARDS:
   A.   Berms:
      1.   On all sites in this Zone which are adjacent to non-manufacturing
Zones, there shall be erected and maintained buffering earthen berms adjacent
to the non-manufacturing Zones with a minimum height of twenty five feet (25')
and a width no less than ten feet (10'). Erosion controlling landscaping
consisting of sod, prairie grass, or ground cover shall be maintained on said
berms.
      2.   All berms erected adjacent to Residential Zones shall have planted
on their crown evergreen trees or shrubs, which are spaced at initial planting
no further apart than twelve feet (12').
   B.   Sound Emission: All installed equipment, which causes the emission of
sound beyond the boundaries of the property shall be, if necessary, screened or
filtered with sufficient noise mitigation devices, walls, or other adequate
screening so as to comply with the Village noise performance standards at
section
10-3-4 of this Title.
   C.   Other Standards: All other Village performance standards as provided in
section
10-3-4 of this Title governing noise, smoke, particulate matter, toxic and
nontoxic matter, odors, fire and explosion hazards, vibration, radiation or
glare, or heat in Manufacturing Zones shall apply to this Zone. (Ord. 09-10,
10-12-2009; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-6C-4: ACCESSIBILITY FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
Any industrial facility either constructed or altered after the effective date
hereof shall comply with the applicable sections of the federal and state laws
in effect regarding accessibility for persons with disabilities. (2016 Code;
amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
Reserved by Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022
CHAPTER 8
MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY
SECTION:
10-8-1: Findings
10-8-2: Definitions
10-8-3: Application, Interpretation And Compliance
10-8-4: License And Permit Requirements
10-8-5: Manufactured Home Space Requirements
10-8-6: Utilities, Facilities And Services
10-8-7: Pest Control
10-8-8: Streets And Driveways
10-8-9: Requirements For Manufactured Homes Within Communities
10-8-10: Compliance With Building Codes
10-8-11: Occupancy Of Dependent Manufactured Homes, Shelters And Vehicles
Prohibited
10-8-12: Attendant Required
10-8-13: Records, Forms And Rules, And Regulations
10-8-14: Registration Requirements
10-8-15: Enforcement
10-8-16: Penalties
10-8-1: FINDINGS:
The Village Board of Trustees finds:
   A.   Housing options within the Village have included manufactured homes for
the last sixty (60) years;
   B.   While many manufactured homes are contemporary, there are a significant
number of older structures still being occupied by our residents;
   C.   Industry standards over the last few decades have enhanced safety
regulations; and
   D.   It is paramount to the safety of occupants that inspections prior to
the resale of existing manufactured homes ascertain compliance with applicable
manufactured home regulations. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-
2022)
10-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the words and phrases set forth
in this Chapter shall have the meanings set forth in this section:
DEPENDENT MANUFACTURED HOME:   A manufactured home which does not have toilet
                               and bath or shower facilities.
                               Means a manufactured home served by individual
                               utilities, resting on a permanent perimeter
IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOME: foundation, which extends below the established
                               frost depth with the wheels, tongue, and hitch
                               removed and the home secured in compliance with
                               the Manufactured Home Tie Down Act.
INDEPENDENT MANUFACTURED HOME: A manufactured home which has self-contained
                               toilet and bath or shower facilities.
                               As used in this Chapter, means the provision for
                               each manufactured home of a separate metered
INDIVIDUAL UTILITIES:          connection to electrical service, separately
                               tapped water service from an approved public
                               water supply, and a separately tapped connection
                               to an approved public sewer system.
LICENSE:                       Manufactured Home Community operator's license.
                               A structure designed for permanent habitation
                               and so constructed as to permit its transport on
                               wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to
                               its frame, from the place of its construction to
                               the location, or subsequent locations, at which
MANUFACTURED HOME:             time it is intended to be permanent habitation
                               and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as
                               a dwelling place for one or more persons,
                               provided that any such structure resting on a
                               permanent foundation, with wheels, tongue, lug
                               bolts, and hitch permanently removed, shall not
                               be construed as a manufactured home.
                               An area of land or lands upon which five (5) or
                               more independent manufactured homes are
                               harbored, either free of charge or for revenue
MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY:   purposes, and shall include any building,
                               structure, tent, vehicle, or enclosure used or
                               intended for use as a part of the equipment of
                               such Manufactured Home Community.
PERMANENT HABITATION:          A period of two (2) or more months.
                               As used in this Chapter shall include, but not
                               be limited to, monies or other valuable
REVENUE PURPOSES:              consideration paid by a tenant or lessee or paid
                               by a contract purchaser pursuant to a contract
                               for deed, sale, or purchase prior to the
                               delivery of the deed conveying legal Title.
                               The lot on which the manufactured home is
SITE:                          harbored. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-
                               04, 4-11-2022)
 
10-8-3: APPLICATION, INTERPRETATION AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Application And Interpretation: Nothing in this Chapter shall be
construed to include the State Park of Illinois, and the term "Manufactured
Home Community" shall not be construed to include buildings, tents, or other
structures maintained by any individual or company on their own premises and
used exclusively to house their own farm labor, or any military establishment
of the United States or of this State where a travel trailer or manufactured
home may be located or harbored.
   B.   Compliance Required: Each Manufactured Home Community licensed or to be
constructed under the provisions of this Chapter shall be operated and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   C.   Code Adopted: The Village of Hodgkins has adopted the regulations of
the Illinois Department of Public Health, Manufactured Homes Part 860 and known
as the Manufactured Home Community Code.
The Building Official, Village Code/Life Safety Officer, and Pleasantview Fire
Protection District are authorized to perform necessary inspections in order to
assure compliance with the provisions adopted herein. Any violations shall be
subject to fines up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) per occurrence. (Ord. 18-
10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-4: LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License required; Term: No person, firm, or corporation shall
establish, maintain, conduct or operate a Manufactured Home Community without
first obtaining a license therefore from the Village. "Conduct or operate a
Manufactured Home Community," as used in this section, shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, supplying or maintaining common water, sewer, or
other utility supply or service, or the collection of rents directly or
indirectly from five (5) or more independent manufactured homes. Such license
shall expire one (1) year from the date of issue, and a new license may be
issued upon proper application and payment of the annual license fee, provided
the applicant is in substantial compliance with the rules and regulations of
the Village. The fee to be paid is stated pursuant to section 4-1A-1 of this
code.
   B.   Construction Permit Required; Application; Fee; Term:
      1.   In order to obtain a permit to construct a Manufactured Home
Community, the applicant shall file with the Village a written application and
plan documents, and such plan documents shall be prepared by a registered
engineer or architect licensed to practice in the State of Illinois, with
registration seal affixed, setting forth:
         a.   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants or names
and addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership or the names
and addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the
present or last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the
application.
         b.   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon
which the Manufactured Home Community is proposed to be operated and
maintained.
         c.   The proposed and existing facilities in the Manufactured Home
Community for water supply, sewage, garbage, waste disposal, and fire
protection, and the proposed alterations therein and the maintenance thereof.
         d.   The proposed method of lighting, structures, and land upon which
the Manufactured Home Community is to be located.
         e.   The plot plans of the Manufactured Home Community, building plans
and specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities, all as may be required by the rules and regulations of the
Village under the provisions of this Chapter.
         f.   A statement of the firefighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the Manufactured Home Community.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of License Or Permit:
      1.   Upon the receipt of an application for a permit to construct a
Manufactured Home Community or an application for a license to operate and
maintain the same, the Village shall, if the Community is, or the proposed
Community will be, in conformity with this Chapter and the rules and
regulations adopted by the Village pursuant hereto, issue a permit to construct
or an original license, as the case may be. If the application for a permit to
construct or a license is declined, the Village shall give the reasons
therefore in writing to the applicant, and if the objections can be corrected,
the applicant may amend his application and resubmit it for approval.
      2.   If a permit to construct a Community has been issued, the applicant,
upon completion thereof, shall notify the Village. The Village shall then
inspect the Community, and if completed in accordance with the accepted
application, the Village shall issue a license.
      3.   No change in any sanitary facilities, methods of water supply,
sewer, drainage, garbage, or waste disposal, and no change in the plot plan
shall be made without first making a written application to the Village and
receiving a written permit therefrom. Such application shall be made in the way
and manner herein before set forth, except that a fee amounting to two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) shall accompany each application for a permit to
increase the size of a Community. No application fee shall be required to
accompany an application for a permit to alter a Manufactured Home Community
where such alteration involves only a reduction in the number of manufactured
home spaces to a number less than that for which such Community is currently
licensed.
      4.   The Village shall not issue any permit until the applicant receives
written certification from the Village Board of Trustees that such Community is
not in violation of any Zoning Ordinance. Further, the Village shall not issue
a license to operate and maintain a Manufactured Home Community where any
violation of a Village Ordinance or regulation exists.
   D.   License Fees:
      1.   In addition to the application fee provided herein, the licensee
shall remit to the Village on or before January 1st of each year or at such
other dates as the Village may designate an annual license fee of nine hundred
dollars ($900.00).
      2.   The licensee shall pay the Village fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
additional manufactured home space added to the Community under the authority
of a written permit to alter the Community as provided in subsection B of this
section, payment for which the additional manufactured home spaces are to be
made and an amended license, therefore, obtained before any manufactured homes
are accommodated on the additional manufactured home spaces. The Village shall
issue an amended license to cover such additional manufactured home spaces when
they are to be occupied before the end of the license year, for which an annual
license has been previously issued.
      3.   Provided that subsequent to the effective date hereof, an applicant
for an original license to operate a new Community constructed under a permit
issued by the Village shall be required to pay a prorated fee based on the
remaining months of the license year for the first year of operation.
      4.   Each license fee shall be paid to the Village, and any license fee
or any part thereof, once paid to and accepted by the Village, shall not be
refunded.
      5.   The Village shall deposit all funds received under this Chapter in
the Village General Fund.
   E.   Display of License and Permit; Non-transferability of License: No
person, firm, or corporation shall construct a Manufactured Home Community
without first obtaining a permit to do so. All permits to construct, all
licenses to operate, and all permits to make alterations therein shall be
prominently displayed in the Community office. All licenses issued under this
Chapter shall be nontransferable.
   F.   Revocation or Suspension of License: Any license granted hereunder
shall be subject to revocation or suspension by the Village. However, the
Village shall first serve or cause to be served upon the licensee a written
notice in which shall be specified the way or ways in which such licensee has
failed to comply with this Chapter or any rules or regulations promulgated by
the Village pertaining hereto. The notice shall require the licensee to remove
or abate any nuisance or unsanitary or objectionable condition specified in the
notice within five (5) days or within a longer period of time as may be allowed
by the Village. If the licensee fails to comply with the terms and conditions
of the notice within the time specified or such extended period of time, the
Village may revoke or suspend the license.
   G.   Notices And Hearings:
      1.   If the Village denies a permit to construct or alter a Community,
denies a license or suspends or revokes a license, the Village shall give
notice by registered mail to the Community Representative, operator, or the
applicant, as the case may be, within fifteen (15) days of such decision. Any
person refused a permit to construct or alter a Community or refused a license,
or whose license is suspended or revoked shall have the right to a hearing
before the Village. A written notice of a request for such a hearing shall be
served upon the Village within twenty (20) days of the mailing of such refusal
of a permit to construct or alter or refusal of a license or suspension or
revocation thereof.
      2.   The hearing shall be conducted through its administrative
adjudication hearing process by a Hearing Officer designated by the Village
(hereinafter "Hearing Officer").
      3.   The Hearing Officer may compel, by subpoena or subpoena duces tecum,
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of books and
papers, and administer oaths to witnesses. The hearing shall be conducted at
such place as designated by the Village. The Village shall give written notice
of the time and place of hearing, by registered mail, to the Community
Representative, Community Operator, or license applicant, as the case may be,
at least ten (10) days prior to such hearing.
      4.   The Hearing Officer shall permit the applicant or licensee to appear
in person and to be represented by counsel at the hearing, at which time, the
applicant or licensee shall be afforded an opportunity to present all relevant
matter in support of his application for license or renewal of license or in
resisting the revocation thereof.
      5.   In the event of the inability of any party or the Village to procure
the attendance of witnesses to give testimony or produce books and papers, such
party or the Village may take the deposition of witnesses in accordance with
the provisions of the laws of the State. All testimony taken at a hearing shall
be reduced to writing, and all such testimony and other evidence introduced at
the hearing shall be a part of the record of the hearing.
      6.   The Hearing Officer shall make findings of fact in such hearing, and
the Hearing Officer shall render his decision within thirty (30) days after the
termination of the hearing unless additional time is required for a proper
disposition of the matter.
      7.   Technical errors in proceeding before the Hearing Officer or his
failure to observe the technical rules of evidence shall not constitute grounds
for the reversal of any administrative decision unless it appears to the court
that such error or failure materially affects the rights of any party and
results in substantial injustice thereto.
      8.   All subpoenas issued by the Hearing Officer may be served as
provided for in civil action. The fees for witnesses for attendance and travel
shall be the same as the fees for witnesses before the Circuit Court and shall
be paid by the party to such proceedings at whose request the subpoena is
issued. If such subpoena is issued at the request of the Village, the witness
fee shall be paid as an administrative expense.
      9.   In cases of refusal of a witness to attend or testify or to produce
books or papers concerning any matter upon which he might be lawfully examined,
the Circuit Court of Cook County, upon application of any Illinois party to the
proceeding, may compel obedience by similar order of said court.
   H.   Judicial Review of Administrative Decisions: The Illinois
Administrative Review Act shall apply to and govern all proceedings of final
administrative decisions of the Village hereunder. The term "administrative
decision" is defined under the Illinois Administrative Review Act. (Ord. 18-10,
5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-5: MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Area: Each space or site on which each manufactured home is
accommodated shall have a minimum of two thousand five hundred (2,500) square
feet; provided that the spaces or sites existing in Communities prior to
November 8, 2004, shall contain an area of not less than one thousand (1,000)
square feet or as previously required by the regulatory agency.
   B.   Location Restrictions; Access: No manufactured home shall be parked
closer than five feet (5') to the side lot lines of a Community, nor closer
than ten feet (10') to a public street, alley, or building. Each individual
site shall abut or face on a private or public driveway or roadway of not less
than twenty four feet (24') in width, which driveway or roadway shall have
unobstructed access to a public highway or alley. There shall be an open space
of at least ten feet (10') adjacent to the sides of every manufactured home and
at least five feet (5') adjacent to the ends of every manufactured home. (Ord.
18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-6: UTILITIES, FACILITIES AND SERVICES:
   A.   Water Supply: An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality,
approved by the Village, shall be furnished at each Community. Each site shall
be provided with a cold water tap located in accordance as per regulations of
the Village and the Illinois Plumbing Code.
   B.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   All sewage and other water carried wastes shall be disposed of into
the Village sewerage system whenever the interceptor or sewer main of such
system is adjacent to the Community.
      2.   When a water carriage system of sewage is used, each site shall be
provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid waste outlet or
outlets of each manufactured home. It shall be the duty of the owner or manager
of the Community to provide an approved type of watertight and odor tight
connection from the manufactured home drainage outlets to the sewer connection,
and it be the duty of the owner or manager of the Manufactured Home Community
to make and maintain such connection and keep all occupied manufactured homes
connected to the sewer while located in the Community. Sewer connections in
unoccupied sites shall be so closed that they will emit no odors or cause a
breeding place for flies. No water or waste shall be allowed to fall on the
ground from a manufactured home.
   C.   Solid Waste Disposal:
      1.   A sufficient number of adequate insect proof and watertight
containers, in acordance with rules and regulations adopted by the Village
shall be supplied for the storage of garbage except where a centralized
dumpster system is in place.
      2.   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least once a week and shall
not be filled to over flowing or allowed to become foul smelling or a breeding
place for insects.
      3.   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the Village.
   D.   Electrical Supply: Electrical outlets for each individual site shall be
provided, and the installation shall be in accordance with all state or local
codes and ordinances.
   E.   Maintenance Of Community Services:
      1.   The management of every Community shall assume full responsibility
for maintaining all sanitary, electrical, and safety appliances in the
Community and shall promptly bring such action as is necessary to prosecute or
eject from the Community any person or persons who fail to comply with the
regulations of this Chapter.
      2.   When Community kitchens, dining rooms, laundries, or other
facilities are provided, such facilities and equipment as are supplied must be
maintained in a sanitary condition and kept in good repair, and subject to such
rules and regulations as may be issued by the Village.
   F.   Surface Water Drainage; Wastewater Deposits Restricted: No Community
shall be so located that the drainage of the Community area will endanger any
water supply. All such Communities shall be well drained. No wastewater shall
be deposited on the surface of the ground within the Manufactured Home
Community. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-7: PEST CONTROL:
Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All buildings
shall be fly proof and rodent proof, and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the Community or pathways. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018; amd.
Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-8: STREETS AND DRIVEWAYS:
All streets and driveways in each Community must be maintained in a passable
condition at all times, and streets in Communities constructed after November
8th, 2004, shall have a minimum width of twenty four feet (24'). (Ord. 18-10,
5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-9: REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES WITHIN COMMUNITIES:
   A.   Only new manufactured homes may be moved into or relocated within a
Manufactured Home Community in the Village, and the following requirements
shall apply.
      1.   Smoke Detectors and Carbon Monoxide Detectors: Electric smoke
detectors and carbon monoxide detectors must be operable and the detector
connected by a permanent wiring method into a general electrical circuit. There
must be no switches in the current to the detector other than the overcurrent
protective device protecting the branch circuit. The smoke detector cannot be
placed on any branch circuit protected by a ground fault circuit interrupter.
      2.   Exit Doors: Two (2) functional and unobstructed doorways are
required in all manufactured homes. Exit doors may not have deadbolt locks that
require a key to unlock them from the inside. Temporary storm doors or
excessive weather stripping that would hamper the use of the door as an exit is
forbidden. One exit door must be accessible from the doorway of each bedroom
without traveling more than thirty five feet (35').
      3.   Egress Windows: Every bedroom in a manufactured home must have at
least one egress window to the outside, having a clear window opening of five
(5) square feet or more, with the bottom of the window opening not more than
thirty six inches (36") above the floor.
      4.   Design Loads: Wall construction must be constructed to withstand the
equivalent design load of construction grade two feet by four feet (2' x 4')
lumber sixteen feet (16') on center, or greater design load. The roof must be
manufactured to a tested design load of twenty (20) pounds per square foot or
more.
      5.   Roof: All new manufactured homes placed on the lot must have a
pitched shingled roof.
      6.   Minimum Bedroom Size: Bedrooms must have a minimum of fifty (50)
square feet of living space, excluding closets. Bedrooms designed for two (2)
people must have a minimum of seventy (70) square feet, excluding closets. An
additional fifty (50) square feet of living space is required for each person
in excess of two (2). If more than two (2) people are living in the
manufactured home, each adult person must be allocated an additional fifty (50)
square feet.
      7.   Foundation Requirements: All foundations for manufactured home
installations must be designed and constructed in accordance with 24 CFR 3285,
commonly referred to as the Manufactured Home Construction Safety Standards
"MHCSS"), including but not limited to six-inch (6") concrete slabs and vapor
barriers.
   B.   Manufactured homes in a Manufactured Home Community shall be equipped
with fire extinguishers, in working order, of a type approved by and located as
directed by appropriate fire prevention authorities. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018;
amd. Ord. 18-20, 11-29-2018; Ord. 18-22, 12-10-2018; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-10: COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODES:
All buildings constructed or altered, all plumbing, electrical, and heating
installations shall be in accordance with existing Municipal and County
Building Ordinances and the rules and regulations of the Village. (Ord. 18-10,
5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-11: OCCUPANCY OF DEPENDENT MANUFACTURED HOMES, SHELTERS AND VEHICLES
PROHIBITED:
In no event shall a dependent manufactured home or nonpermanent shelter or
other vehicle designed or used for sleeping purposes, other than an independent
manufactured home, be permitted for occupancy at any time in a Manufactured
Home Community. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-12: ATTENDANT REQUIRED:
Every Community shall have a responsible attendant or caretaker on duty and
physically present at the Community for a minimum of forty (40) hours per week,
Monday through Saturday. It shall be the duty of the responsible attendant or
caretaker to maintain the Community, its facilities, and equipment in a clean,
orderly, and sanitary condition. The licensee shall be responsible for any
violation of the provisions of this Chapter.
An emergency telephone number shall be provided to all residents, and the
residents shall be provided with a response within one (1) hour. The office
shall be open during normal business hours, forty (40) hours a week, and the
office hours shall be posted for public inspection. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018;
amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-13: RECORDS, FORMS AND RULES, AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   When the Village has approved an application for a permit to construct
or make alterations upon a Manufactured Home Community or the appurtenances
thereto or a license to operate and maintain the same, it shall retain the
original and keep a file thereof, and one copy shall be returned to the
applicant or agent, one copy to the Village Clerk.
   B.   The Village shall draft and supply all forms and blanks and specify the
number and detail necessary to obtain permits to construct or make alterations
upon Community's and for a license to operate and maintain such a Community
according to this Chapter.
   C.   The Village shall keep a record of all Manufactured Home Communities,
said records to show the names and addresses of all Communities, names and
addresses of the licensees, number of manufactured home lots in each Community,
source of water supply, system of sewage and garbage disposal, and other
information desired by the Village.
   D.   The Village shall supply licensees of all Communities with any and all
health rules and regulations pertaining thereto made by the Village and any
change or changes that may be made from time to time, and such rules and
regulations shall be posted by the management of the Community in a protected,
conspicuous place within the Community. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-
04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-14: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
Each Manufactured Home Community shall be provided with a manager's office
where each manufactured home entering such Community shall be assigned to a
site, given a copy of the Community rules and regulations, and registered
according to the prescribed form.
Any person furnishing misinformation for purposes of registration shall be
subject to punishment as provided in this Chapter and as the law otherwise
permits. The registration records shall be neatly and securely maintained, and
no registration records shall be destroyed until six (6) years have elapsed
following the date of registration. The register shall be available at all
times for inspection by all law enforcement officers and by the Village. (Ord.
18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-8-15: ENFORCEMENT:
The Village shall enforce the provisions of this Chapter and the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant hereto affecting health, sanitation, water supply,
sewage, garbage, and waste disposal, and the Village shall inspect, at least
once each year, each Manufactured Home Community and all the accommodations and
facilities therewith. Such Officials or Officers are hereby granted the power
and authority to enter upon the premises of such Community at any time for the
purposes herein set forth. The Village may issue rules and regulations to carry
out the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-
11-2022)
10-8-16: PENALTIES:
Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter shall, except as otherwise
provided, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day's violation shall constitute a
separate offense. The Village may, in addition to other remedies provided in
this Chapter, bring action for an injunction to restrain such violation or to
enjoin the operation of any such Manufactured Home Community in the Circuit
Court of Cook County. (Ord. 18-10, 5-14-2018; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 9
SPECIAL USE S ZONES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Special Use Zone(s) Designated
10-9-2: Adult-Use Cannabis
10-9-1: SPECIAL USE ZONE(S) DESIGNATED:
On the Zoning map, the area defined and labeled as S is hereby determined to be
a Special Use Zone(s) for the purpose of quarry mining and the manufacture of
products kindred thereto. (1985 Code § 9-9-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-9-2: ADULT-USE CANNABIS:
All uses specified within Title 10, Chapter 14 shall only be performed within
the special use area as approved by the Board of Trustees following a hearing
before the Hodgkins Zoning Board of Appeals and legally described herein. (Ord.
21-07, 5-20-2021; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 10
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-10-1: Off Street Parking Spaces
10-10-1-1: Design And Development Requirements
10-10-1-2: Joint Use Of Facilities
10-10-1-3: Parking Lot In Residence Zone
10-10-1-4: Number Of Spaces Required
10-10-1-5: Parking Space Dimensions
10-10-2: Off Street Loading Spaces
10-10-1: OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
10-10-1-1: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Such parking spaces and access driveways required in all Zones, when
used in compliance with the provisions of this Title, shall be paved or
concrete surfaced. That part of the driveway connecting from the curb line or
roadway to the property line shall be paved with concrete or asphalt.
   B.   Nonresidential Uses:
      1.   Parking areas serving nonresidential uses of property shall be paved
as provided in subsection A1 of this section so as to properly drain off all
surface water.
      2.   When such parking areas or lots abut upon adjacent residential
properties, there shall be provided a wall or solid screen planting of
appropriate shrubs to a height of not less than four feet (4') along the entire
boundary, common to both the residential and parking areas.
      3.   Lights used to illuminate such parking lots shall be so arranged as
to reflect lighting away from the adjoining premises in a Residential Zone.
      4.   Such parking spaces shall be reserved for the sole use of the
occupants of the building or lots and their customers.
      5.   Places of religious worship, theaters, stadiums, auditoriums, and
other places of assembly may make arrangements for joint use of parking spaces
as specified in section
10-10-1-2 of this Chapter. (1985 Code § 9-10-1-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-10-1-2: JOINT USE OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Joint Use Allowed: The joint use of parking facilities may be permitted
in cases where major parking demands occur on different days of the week or
during different hours; provided that parking spaces will be available for each
use in accordance with standards specified in this Chapter and that the owners
agree in writing that any subsequent sale or division of the property or change
in the use thereof will not interfere with the joint use of the parking
facilities.
   B.   Plan and Completion of Improvements Required: A plan of parking
facilities shall accompany each application for a building permit. The
completion of the improvements for parking according to such plan shall be a
requisite for the validity of the permit and/or certificate of occupancy. (1985
Code § 9-10-1-2; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-10-1-3: PARKING LOT IN RESIDENCE ZONE:
The Board of Trustees may authorize a variance permit to allow a parking lot in
a Residence Zone for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this Chapter,
subject to the following limitations:
   A.   Public notice must be given and a public hearing held by the Zoning
Board of Appeals after a public hearing on the request for a variance.
   B.   Notice must be given by registered mail to all owners of property
within three hundred feet (300') of the land for which the special permit is
sought.
   C.   A variance shall not be granted unless the application shows and
warrants that, in the proposed development of the parking area, the front and
side yard requirements will be maintained. (1985 Code § 9-10-1-3; amd. Ord. 22-
04, 4-11-2022)
10-10-1-4: NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED:
In any Zone, every building erected or structurally altered, enlarged or
increased in capacity, and every land use shall be provided with minimum off
street parking facilities as follows:
Use             Number Of Spaces
                Five (5) parking spaces per alley, plus one (1) additional
Bowling Alleys  parking space per two hundred (200) square feet of floor area,
                excluding floor area of alleys
Places of       One (1) parking space for each five (5) seats or bench seating
Religious       spaces, based upon maximum seating capacity. For the purpose of
Worship,        this type of use, parking spaces already provided to meet off
Auditoriums,    street parking requirements for stores, office buildings, and
Gymnasiums,     industrial establishments, or off street parking facilities
Theaters, and   provided by the Village, lying within three hundred feet (300')
Other Places of of the place of public assembly as measured along the lines of
Public or       public access and not normally in use or made available for
Private         other parking, may be used to meet up to fifty (50%) percent of
Assembly        the total requirements of parking space for places of public
                assembly
Dance Halls and One (1) parking space for each fifty (50) square feet of floor
Private Clubs   area, to be provided on the premises or within three hundred
                feet (300') of the entrance
Funeral Homes   Fifteen (15) parking spaces on the premises, plus five (5)
                spaces for each area which can be used as a parlor
Hospitals       One (1) parking space for each four (4) hospital beds
Hotels, Motels
Clubs and       One (1) parking space for each guest sleeping room
Fraternal Homes
                One (1) parking space for each three (3) employees, based on the
Manufacturing   greatest number of employees at one (1) time, to be provided on
Establishments  the premises or at other off street locations within one
                thousand feet (1,000) of the main entrance
Manufactured    One and a half (1 ½ ) parking spaces for each Manufactured Home
Home            Community
Communities
Multiple-Family
Dwellings of    Two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit
more than two
(2) Families
Municipal or    One (1) parking space for each three (3) employees and one (1)
Public          parking space for each two (2) seats of bench sitting space,
Buildings       based upon maximum seating capacity
One- and Two-
Family          Two (2) parking spaces for each dwelling unit
Dwellings
                One (1) parking space for each three hundred (300) square feet
Stores and      of store space, to be provided on the premises or within two
other retail    hundred (200') feet of the entrances and off of the street;
establishments  except that restaurants or establishments whose primary use is
where such uses to serve meals and refreshments to patrons shall provide one (1)
are permitted   parking space for each one hundred (100) square feet of the
                dining area in the building
Wholesale and
distributing
establishments, One (1) parking space for each three (3) employees
including
telephone
exchanges
 
In any Zone, not less than the minimum number of prominently posted parking
spaces for persons with disabilities shall be provided in compliance with the
federal and state laws regarding parking and accessibility for persons with
disabilities.
Parking spaces required under this section may be reduced by the Zoning
Committee after a public hearing at a time when the capacity or use of a
building is changed in such a manner that new use or capacity would require
less space. Such reduction may not be below the standards set in this Chapter.
Loading or unloading areas shall not be considered as parking areas. (1985 Code
§ 9-10-1-4; amd. Ord. 92-21, 6-8-1992; Ord. 94-32, 12-12-1994; 2016 Code; Ord.
22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-10-1-5: PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONS:
 
Stall Width, Parallel to Aisle (forty five (45) Twelve point seven (12.7') feet
degree angle)
Stall Length of Line (forty five (45) degree    Twenty five (25') feet
angle)
Aisle Width (forty five (45) degree angle)      Twelve (12') feet
Stall Width, Parallel to Aisle (sixty (60)      Ten point four (10.4') feet
degree angle)
Stall Length of Line (sixty (60) degree angle)  Twenty two (22') feet
Aisle Width (forty five (45) degree angle)      Sixteen (16') feet
 
(Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-10-2: OFF STREET LOADING SPACES:
On the same lot with every building or part thereof to be used for other than
dwelling purposes or as an accessory use for dwelling purposes, there shall be
provided on the lot adequate space for motor vehicles in order to avoid undue
interference with the public use of streets or alleys. Such space, unless
otherwise adequately provided for, shall include a ten foot by twenty five foot
(10' x 25') loading space with fifteen feet (15') height clearance, and one
such space shall be provided for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, or
fraction thereof, of floor or lot area used for other than residence purposes.
(1985 Code § 9-10-2; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING LAND, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Existing Nonconformances
10-11-2: Continuance Of Existing Uses
10-11-1: EXISTING NONCONFORMANCES:
The lawful use of land or buildings existing at the effective date hereof may
continue, although such use does not conform to the regulations specified by
this Title for the Zone in which such land or buildings are located, subject to
the following conditions, specifications, and exceptions:
   A.   Any nonconforming use of land or building, which has ceased by
discontinuance or abandonment for a period of twelve (12) months, shall
thereafter conform to this Title.
   B.   In the event that a nonconforming building has been damaged by fire,
explosion, an act of God, or by a public enemy, or any other cause to any
extent up to and including one hundred percent (100%) of its assessed
valuation, the landowner or owners shall have two (2) years in which such
structure may be restored to the same nonconforming use as existed before such
damage. The Zoning Committee shall issue a letter of noncompliance to the
nonconforming use property owner(s) setting forth the provisions of this
subsection.
   C.   No nonconforming use of a building may be moved to any other part or
parcel of land upon which same was conducted at the effective date hereof.
   D.   A nonconforming use of land shall be permitted on any land where the
owner, contract or option purchaser, or lessee, shall:
      1.   Have a nonconforming use; and
      2.   Be an owner, contract, or option purchaser, or lessee, at the
effective date hereof; provided, however, that such additional nonconforming
use of land shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the land contiguous
therewith for which there is a nonconforming use.
   E.   The use of a nonconforming building may be changed only to a use
conforming to the Zone District in which the property is located except as
amended in Chapter 9, "Special Use S Zone(s), of this Title.
   F.   Any nonconforming use in an LM (except where used as R or R-2), HM, or
CA Zone which, by reason of the nonconforming use of the area, reduces the off
street parking requirements, shall be made to conform with this Title.
   G.   Any nonconforming use of the occupancy requirements shall conform with
this Title.
   H.   Any nonconforming use in any Zone which does not comply with the paving
of a driveway and parking lot or area used by vehicles, shall conform with this
Title.
   I.   Any nonconforming use in any Zone, which use is prohibited by law or
subsequently prohibited by law, shall immediately conform. (1985 Code § 9-11-1;
amd. Ord. 87-11, 9-14-1987; 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-11-2: CONTINUANCE OF EXISTING USES:
Nothing herein shall prevent the continuance of the present occupancy or lawful
use of any existing building or use of land, except as may be necessary for the
safety of life and property and except as specifically provided and made to
conform in this Title. (1985 Code § 9-11-2; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-12-1: Zoning Committee
10-12-2: Letters Of Compliance
10-12-3: Special Uses
10-12-4: Conditional Uses; Procedure
10-12-5: Public Hearings
10-12-6: Amendments
10-12-7: Fees
10-12-8: Enforcement
10-12-9: Penalty
10-12-1: ZONING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Created: There is hereby created the Zoning Committee. The
members of the Zoning Committee shall be the same as the Village Board.
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the Zoning Committee to be responsible
for the enforcement of the provisions of this Title, hold public hearings where
required herein, and have such other duties as the appointing authority may
require. (1985 Code § 9-12-1; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-12-2: LETTERS OF COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Letter Of Compliance:
      1.   Letter of Compliance Required:
         a.   No building or structure hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall be occupied and used until a letter of compliance has been issued
by the Zoning Committee. The letter of compliance shall be issued only after
the Zoning Committee reports a finding that the building has been erected or
structurally altered in conformance with the provisions of this Title and other
health and building regulations.
         b.   The use of a building already erected at the effective date
hereof shall not be changed to some other use or occupied for any other purpose
unless the owner applies for and receives a letter compliance; except that no
use shall be permitted in a Zone unless such use is authorized in said Zone by
this Title.
      2.   Application for Letter; Issuance: A letter of compliance shall be
applied for coincident with the application for a building permit and shall be
issued within ten (10) days after the erection or alteration of such buildings
shall have been satisfactorily completed. A record of all letters of compliance
shall be kept on file in the Office of the Building Official, and copies shall
be furnished, upon request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy
interest in the building affected.
   B.   Letter of Nonconforming Use: Upon application of any property owner,
the Zoning Committee may issue a letter of nonconforming use applicable to the
property concerned and extending the time for continuance or abandonment. Fees
for the hearing and the issuance of said letter shall be set by the corporate
authorities from time to time. (1985 Code § 9-12-2; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04,
4-11-2022)
10-12-3: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Use Regulations: Any use not specifically enumerated in this Title and
not a nonconforming use as defined in Chapter 11 of this Title is hereby
declared to be special use, and no such special use shall be made of any lot or
building without a public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals and the
approval of the Village Board by ordinance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
approve any special use of any lot area or building within any use Zone if,
after a public hearing pursuant to notice as provided in cases of variations,
it has determined that the special use is necessary at that location for public
convenience. All special uses shall conform as nearly as possible to the
comparable existing uses for the Zone in which the special use is intended or
comparable to the existing uses in a Zone adjacent to or near the lot or
building for which the special use is intended. The Zoning Board of Appeals,
with the approval of the Village Board, may impose such conditions and
restrictions upon the use of the premises benefited as may be necessary to
minimize the effect of any special use upon adjacent property.
   B.   Occupancy Use Permit: No change shall be made in the use of a building
or part thereof now or hereafter erected or structurally altered, or in the use
of land now or hereafter occupied, without a use permit having first been
issued by the Building Official. No such use permit shall be issued to make
such change unless it is in conformity with the provisions of this Title. (1985
Code § 9-12-3; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-12-4: CONDITIONAL USES; PROCEDURE:
Application for conditional uses, as defined herein, shall be considered at a
public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals
shall make its findings of fact and recommendation to the Village Board within
thirty (30) days after the public hearing. The Zoning Board of Appeals may
recommend such restrictions upon the height and build of any structure so
approved for conditional use as may be reasonable under the particular
circumstances; provided that such restrictions shall not be more restrictive
than the requirements established for the Zone in which such structure is
proposed to be located. (1985 Code § 9-12-4; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-12-5: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Where public hearings are required under this Title, such hearings shall be
held only after notice as in the case of amendments or variations as provided
in this Title and as required by state law. (1985 Code § 9-12-5; amd. Ord. 22-
04, 4-11-2022)
10-12-6: AMENDMENTS:
All amendments to this Title involving changes in use Zones shall only be made
after a hearing before the Zoning Committee and then only after a public
hearing as provided by statute. Application for a change in a use Zone shall be
made on forms furnished by the Village. The fee for said hearing shall be four
hundred dollars ($400.00) which shall be paid in advance. (1985 Code § 9-12-6;
amd. Ord. 97-31, 12-8-1997; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-12-7: FEES:
The fee required in section
10-12-6 of this Chapter shall apply to all requests for a variation and all
matters to be heard before the Zoning Board of Appeals. (1985 Code § 9-12-7;
amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-12-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Substandard Structures: The Village may acquire by purchase,
condemnation, or otherwise, any buildings or structures which do not conform to
the standards fixed by the Village under state law, all land which is necessary
or appropriate for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of any area blighted by
substandard buildings or structures; may remove or demolish all substandard
buildings and structures so acquired; may hold and use any remaining property
for public purposes; and may sell, lease or exchange such property as is not
required for public purposes subject to the provisions of this Title.
   B.   Proceedings To Prevent Violation:
      1.   In case any building or structure is constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained; or any building, structure, or
land is used in violation of this title or of any ordinance or other regulation
made under the authority conferred thereby or ordinances of the Village, the
proper Village authorities, or any owner or tenant of real property in the same
contiguous Zone as the building or structure in question, in addition to other
remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to:
         a.   Prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use.
         b.   Prevent the occupancy of the building, structure, or land.
         c.   Prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about
the premises.
         d.   Restrain, correct or abate the violation.
      2.   When any such action is instituted by an owner or tenant, notice of
such action shall be served upon the Village at the time suit is begun by
serving a copy of the complaint on the Village President. No such action may be
maintained by such owner or tenant until such notice has been given. (1985 Code
§ 9-12-8; amd. Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-12-9: PENALTY:
Any person, tenant, lessor or lessee, owner, rental agent, occupant, firm or
corporation, or agents, employees or contractors of such, who violate, disobey,
omit, neglect, or refuse to comply with, or who resist enforcement of any
provision of this Title, shall be subject to a fine as provided in section 10-
4-1 of this code for each offense, and each day a violation continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. The remedies or penalties enumerated
herein are cumulative. (1985 Code § 9-12-9; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-
2022)
CHAPTER 13
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Short Title
10-13-2: Purpose And Scope
10-13-3: Definitions
10-13-4: Prohibited Signs
10-13-5: Exempt Signs
10-13-6: Permit And Inspection Requirements
10-13-7: Conditions Applicable To Signs
10-13-8: Construction, Maintenance, And Alteration
10-13-9: Location
10-13-10: Size, Height, And Number Limitations
10-13-11: Illumination Standards
10-13-12: Unsafe And Unlawful Signs
10-13-13: Removal Of Certain Signs
10-13-14: Administration
10-13-15: Legal Nonconforming Signs
10-13-1: SHORT TITLE:
This section 13-1 shall be known and cited hereafter as the SIGN ORDINANCE OF
THE VILLAGE OF HODGKINS. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The regulation of signs by this section 13-1 is intended to
promote and protect public health, safety, and welfare by:
      1.   Reducing the depreciation of property values caused by signs which
are incompatible with surrounding land uses;
      2.   Creating a viable economic and business climate within the
commercial and industrial areas of the Village;
      3.   Enhancing and protecting the physical appearance of all areas of the
Village; and
      4.   Reducing the distraction, obstructions, and hazards to pedestrians
and auto traffic caused by the indiscriminate placement and use of signs.
   B.   Scope: This section 13-3 covers the location, construction, use, and
maintenance requirements for signs, as defined in section 13-4 of this Title,
and related structures.
   C.   Limitations:
      1.   The requirements in this Chapter do not apply to the following
areas, subdivisions, occupancies, addresses, or developments:
         a.   To the east: Area bounded by the west side of East Avenue;
         b.   To the south: Area bounded by the north side of 63rd Street;
         c.   To the west: Area bounded by LaGrange Road;
         d.   To the north: Area bounded by Joliet Road; and
         e.   6701 LaGrange Road;
      2.   With the following exceptions:
         a.   Advertising for off-site businesses or functions is not allowed;
and
         b.   No signs are allowed in the Right of Way. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter unless the context otherwise indicates:
                                                                                  Large inflatable devices comprising a long tube attached to a fan which causes
                                                                                  the tube to move in a dancing or flailing motion. Air dancers are generally
                                                                                  called an inflatable tubes or a moving figure, such as "windyman," "skydancer,"
AIR DANCERS:                                                                      "tube man," "wacky waving inflatable arm flailing tube man," and "flyguy."
                                                                                  Variants of an air dancer may resemble humans with tube arms. Air dancers are
                                                                                  generally about twenty feet (20') in total height and are often used in
                                                                                  advertising and at personal events.
BILLBOARD:                                                                        An outdoor sign, which advertises something other than a business, operated, or
                                                                                  product sold upon the premises occupied by such sign.
BUILDING OFFICIAL:                                                                The Officer or other person charged with the administration and enforcement of
                                                                                  the Sign Code or his duly authorized representative.
CODE:                                                                             The Municipal Code of the Village of Hodgkins, as amended.
ERECT:                                                                            To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, or affix, and shall also
                                                                                  include the painting of walls signs.
FACING:                                                                           The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the message of the sign
                                                                                  is exhibited.
                                                                                  A sign with or without characters, letters, illustrations, or ornamentations
                                                                                  applied to cloth, paper, flexible plastic, or fabric of any kind with only such
FEATHER FLAG:                                                                     material for backing. Feather flags are generally a single sign attached to a
                                                                                  support post and typically having a dimensional ratio of four (4) high to one (1)
                                                                                  wide. This definition also applies to teardrop flags, wind feather flags, bow
                                                                                  flags, falcon flags, dance flags, and other similar type signs.
LOCATION:                                                                         Any place whatsoever upon which a sign is erected, constructed, and maintained.
PERSON:                                                                           Includes any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
                                                                                  organization of any kind.
                                                                                  Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof which is used to
                                                                                  advertise, identify, display, direct, or attract attention to an object, place,
                                                                                  person, institution, organization, business, product, service, event, or location
                                                                                  by any means including words, letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures,
SIGN:                                                                             colors, motion, illumination or projected images. The term "sign" includes, but
                                                                                  is not limited to, every projecting sign, freestanding sign, ground sign, pole
                                                                                  sign, window sign, vehicle sign, awning, canopy, marquee, changeable copy sign,
                                                                                  illuminated sign, flashing sign, animated sign, a temporary sign, portable sign,
                                                                                  pennant, banner, streamer, or any other attention-getting device, or other
                                                                                  display, whether affixed to or separate from any building.
                                                                                  Any sign or part of a sign, which changes physical position by any movement or
   ANIMATED SIGN:                                                              rotation, or any sign, which presents the illusion of movement, or pictures,
                                                                                  which appear animated or moving up, down, or across the surface of the sign.
                                                                                  Any fixed sign, as well as a retractable or removable marquee, canopy, and
   AWNING, MARQUEE, OR CANOPY SIGN:                                            awning, respectively, projected over, suspended above, or erected upon any public
                                                                                  thoroughfare.
                                                                                  Any sign, with or without a frame, intended to be displayed by hanging and which
   BANNER OR PENNANT:                                                          bears any characters, symbols, letters, pictures, or colors affixed to paper,
                                                                                  plastic, or fabric, and shall include streamers. A "flag" as defined herein shall
                                                                                  not be deemed to be a banner or a pennant.
                                                                                  A sign such as an electronic variable message sign, an electronic or
   CHANGING SIGN (AUTOMATIC) (ALSO KNOWN AS AN ELECTRONICALLY VARIABLE MESSAGE electronically controlled public service time, temperature or date sign, message
SIGN (EVM)):                                                                      center or reader board, where different copy changes are shown at timed intervals
                                                                                  as hereinafter specified.
   CHASER SIGN:                                                                Any sign using illumination to create the illusion of lights moving directionally
                                                                                  about the sign.
                                                                                  A group of two (2) or more incandescent light bulbs, including string lights,
   FESTOON LIGHTING:                                                           hung or strung overhead, not on a building or structure, which are exposed to
                                                                                  persons on a public right of way, or which are not shaded or hooded to prevent
                                                                                  the direct rays of light from being visible from the property line.
   FLAG:                                                                       Any national, state, county, or municipal flag, or the symbolic flag of any not
                                                                                  for profit institution.
                                                                                  Any sign, exclusive of a changing sign (automatic) on which illumination
   FLASHING SIGN:                                                              intermittently flashes on and off, in whole or in part, or which includes the
                                                                                  illusion of intermittent or flashing light by means of animation or an externally
                                                                                  mounted intermittent light source.
                                                                                  A sign completely or principally self-supported by a post(s) or other support(s)
   FREESTANDING:                                                               independent of any building or other structure and anchored in or upon the
                                                                                  ground.
                                                                                  Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs, or outline illuminated
   ILLUMINATED SIGN:                                                           by electric lights or luminous tubes as a part of the sign proper or which are
                                                                                  directed toward the sign for the purpose of such illumination.
                                                                                  A sign legally in existence at the adoption of this Chapter, which is not in
   LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN:                                                   compliance with all of the regulations of this Chapter and/or any other
                                                                                  applicable code, ordinance, or regulation, or any amendment thereto, governing
                                                                                  the use of signs.
   NAMEPLATE:                                                                  A sign, which displays only the name and/or address of the occupant, is non
                                                                                  electrical and does not exceed one (1) square foot in area.
   OBSOLETE SIGN:                                                              A sign which advertises a business which is not being presently conducted upon
                                                                                  the premises on which the sign is located.
                                                                                  A sign, which directs attention to or advertises a use, business, commodity,
   OFF PREMISES SIGN:                                                          service, or activity not conducted, sold, or offered upon the premises where the
                                                                                  sign is located.
                                                                                  Any sign, which expresses a point of view on any political issue or candidate, or
   POLITICAL SIGN:                                                             which exhorts or elicits support for or against a political position, policy,
                                                                                  party, candidate, or proposition, or in any other manner expresses a political
                                                                                  idea or ideas.
                                                                                  Any sign that is not permanently affixed to a building structure or the ground
                                                                                  and is designed to be moved from place to place. These signs primarily include
                                                                                  but are not limited to signs attached to wood or metal frames designed to be
   PORTABLE SIGN:                                                              self-supporting and movable; paper, cardboard, or canvas signs wrapped around
                                                                                  supporting poles. Also included are those signs, commonly trailer mounted, which
                                                                                  are designed to be moved from place to place, and those signs commonly known as
                                                                                  sandwich signs.
   PUBLIC WAY:                                                                 All real estate owned by, or under the control or possession of, the Village of
                                                                                  Hodgkins or any other governmental entity.
   ROOF SIGN:                                                                  Any sign erected, constructed, and maintained wholly upon or over the roof of any
                                                                                  building with the principal support on the roof structure.
   ROOFTOP BALLOON SIGN:                                                       Any sign or banner that is inflated by air or gas and that is placed, affixed, or
                                                                                  tethered to the roof of any building.
   SEARCHLIGHT:                                                                Any searchlight designed for purposes of promotion or advertising, or attracting
                                                                                  attention.
                                                                                  The total exposed surface devoted to the sign's message, including all
                                                                                  ornamentation, embellishment, and symbols, but excluding the supporting
                                                                                  structure, which does not form part of the sign proper or of the display. The
   SIGN SURFACE AREA:                                                          area of a sign composed of characters or words attached to a wall and/or window
                                                                                  surface shall be the smallest rectangle, which encloses the whole group. In the
                                                                                  case of a ground sign with more than one exterior surface containing items of
                                                                                  information, the sign surface area shall be computed as including only the
                                                                                  maximum single display surface, which is visible from any one ground position.
   TEMPORARY SIGN:                                                             Any sign, with or without frames, for use for a limited period of time.
                                                                                  A.   TIME SIGNS: Time signs are devices which periodically display the time of
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGNS:                                                 day.
                                                                                  B.   TEMPERATURE SIGN: Temperature signs are devices which periodically display
                                                                                  the current temperature.
                                                                                  A type of sign located on a vertical light pole on a platted lot or public
   VERTICAL POLE BANNER SIGN:                                                  property that is not otherwise allowed as a freestanding sign and shall be
                                                                                  limited to cloth, flexible plastic vinyl, or similar material (i.e., no
                                                                                  cardboard, wood, rigid plastics, etc.).
                                                                                  Shall include all permanent flat signs of solid face construction, which are
   WALL SIGN:                                                                  affixed against a building or other structure and are attached to the exterior
                                                                                  front, rear, or side wall of any building or other structure. It may not project
                                                                                  more than fifteen inches (15") from the structure to which it is attached.
ZONING LOT:                                                                       A "Zoning lot" as defined in section 10-1-4. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
 
10-13-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs shall be prohibited:
   A.   Animated signs;
   B.   Changing signs (automatic and EVM):
   C.   Chasing Feather signs.
   D.   Festoon lighting.
   E.    Flashing signs.
   F.   Handbills.
   G.   Obsolete signs.
   H.   Off premises signs, except billboards where permitted;
   I.   Portable signs;
   J.   Roof signs.
   K.   Searchlights.
   L.   Signs in conflict with traffic signals;
   M.   Signs painted on the walls or windows of any building; and,
   N.   Temporary signs painted upon wood or other materials and hung on a wall
or fence. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-5: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs are exempt from the provisions of this section 10-3, except
for such instances when any sign listed herein is found to be unsafe or
unlawful, as provided herein:
   A.   Memorial Signs: Memorial plaques or tablets, grave markers, statuary,
or other remembrances of person or events that are noncommercial in nature.
   B.   Public Signs: Traffic and other signs erected and maintained by the
Village or other governmental agency, legal notices, and all other similar
signs required by law to be posted.
   C.   Holiday Decorations: Temporary decorations displayed in connection with
traditionally accepted patriotic or religious holidays.
   D.   Flags: Flags, emblems, and insignia of political, religious, or
educational organizations displayed for noncommercial purposes.
   E.   Directional Signs: Small non illuminated signs not exceeding two (2)
square feet in gross surface area, displayed strictly for the direction,
safety, or convenience of the public, including signs which identify rest
rooms, freight entrances, telephones, and the like.
   F.   Works of Art: Works of fine art, when not displayed in conjunction with
a commercial enterprise, which enterprise may benefit direct commercial gain
from such display.
   G.   Vending Machines: Permanent, nonflashing signs on vending machines, gas
pumps, or ice containers indicating only the contents of such devices and
limited in size to three (3) square feet.
   H.   Occupant Signs: Signs limited in content to the name of the occupant
and the address of the premises and are further limited to:
      1.   Wall and ground signs.
      2.   No more than two (2) per street frontage.
      3.   No more than three (3) square feet in gross surface area per sign.
      4.   No more than fifteen feet (15') in height.
      5.   Signs, which may be illuminated but shall not be flashing or moving
signs.
   I.   Any signs, which conforms with the following descriptions, shall be
exempt from the requirements of this Chapter.
      1.   A sign not visible beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel upon
which it is situated or from any public thoroughfare or right of way.
      2.   An official sign of any public or governmental agency.
      3.   Any sign of any official court or public notices thereof, or any
flag, emblem, or insignia of a government, school, or religious group.
      4.   Any sign which is located completely within an enclosed building and
which sign is not visible from the outside of the building.
      5.   Any tablet, grave marker, headstone, statuary/memorial plaque, or
remembrance of persons or events which is noncommercial in nature.
      6.   Any official traffic sign authorized by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes or the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      7.   Any temporary sign celebrating the occasion of a traditionally
accepted patriotic holiday as well as a national and state holiday.
      8.   Any sign of a noncommercial nature and in the public interest,
erected by or on the order of a Public Officer.
      9.   Any sign on a truck, bus, trailer, or other vehicle used in the
normal course of a business which is not primarily the display of such signs.
      10.   Changing of the copy of a sign, bulletin board, display encasement
or marquee, or maintenance where no structural change is made, or changing of
letters on a sign designed for use of interchangeable letters.
      11.   Any private (noncommercial) nameplate identification sign or street
address identification sign when the sign does not exceed one square foot in
area.
      12.   Any tablet, such as a memorial, cornerstone, name of a building,
date of erection, when built into a wall of the building or affixed thereto.
      13.   Any temporary sign for an event of a general Village wide civic or
a public benefit as may be authorized by the Village Board, which sign shall be
removed within twenty four (24) hours after the expiration of such event.
      14.   Any no trespassing sign, warning sign (e.g., "Beware of Dog"), and
other such sign regulating the use of the property when such sign does not
exceed two (2) square feet in area.
   J.   Except for wall signs and ground signs, all signs listed as exempted in
the International Building Code shall be exempted under this Chapter.
   K.   Highway directional signs and markers, which shall be made and
installed in accordance with the specifications of the Village or the Illinois
Department of Transportation announcing or directing traffic to given
locations.
   L.   Traffic or directional signs designating entrances, exits, and
conditions of use of parking facilities accessory to the main use of the
premises may be maintained provided they are located within the property lines
of the premises. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-6: PERMIT AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Expiration: Except as otherwise provided herein, no
sign shall be located, constructed, erected, structurally altered, relocated,
or enlarged without the owner thereof first having obtained a sign permit. All
required sign permits shall be issued by the Building Official.
No permanent sign exceeding two (2) square feet in area shall hereafter be
erected, constructed, or maintained within the Village except as provided in
these regulations and until a permit for the same has been issued by the
Building Department.
Sign permits shall be valid for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of
issuance. In the event that the work authorized under the permit has not been
completed within said ninety (90) day period, the permit shall become null and
void, and the applicant thereon shall be required to apply for an additional
permit.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application shall be made upon forms provided
by the Village and shall include the following information:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number, and signature of the applicant and,
if the applicant is someone other than the owner of the property upon which the
sign is constructed or to be constructed, the name, address, telephone number,
and signature of the owner of said property. The application shall further
identify the owner of the sign and the name of the person erecting,
constructing, altering, or relocating the sign.
      2.   The location by street number and any common name applied to any
building, structure, or premises to or upon which the sign is to be attached or
erected.
      3.   The position of the sign in relation to nearby buildings,
structures, or premises to or upon which the sign is to be attached or secured,
together with a landscape plan, if required, the location shall be indicated on
an Official Plat of Survey.
      4.   Such number of copies of the plans and specifications, description
of the method of construction, location, and support, sealed by a registered
architect, structural engineer, or professional engineer or prepared by a sign
manufacturer, including such measurement of dimensions as the Building Official
may reasonably request.
      5.   Sketch showing sign faces, exposed surfaces, and proposed message
thereof, accurately represented in the scale as to size, proportion, and color.
      6.   The Zoning classification of the property on which the sign will be
erected.
      7.   Such other information as the Building Official may reasonably
require.
      8.   The terms, conditions, and requirements of the International
Building Code, as adopted by the Village from time to time, shall apply to the
construction, repair, and alteration of signs and other related structures
defined herein. A copy of said International Building Code is filed in the
Village Clerk's office.
      9.   Each application shall be accompanied by the payment of a signed
construction permit fee of one dollar twenty five cents ($1.25) per square foot
of each side where advertising appears.
      10.   Issuance or Denial of Permit: The Building Official shall examine
all plans and specifications, the premises upon which a sign is to be erected,
constructed, altered, or relocated, the sign or other advertising structure,
and other relevant data or material. Should the Building Official conclude that
the proposed sign is in compliance with all requirements of this code, a permit
shall be issued. If the Building Official determines that the proposed sign is
not in compliance with all requirements of this code, the permit shall be
denied the application and give written notice thereof to the applicant,
together with a brief statement of the reasons for the denial.
   C.   Suspension or Revocation of Permit: The Building Official may, in
writing, suspend or revoke any permit issued under provisions of this section
if he shall determine that the holder thereof failed to comply with any
provisions of this section. All construction shall cease, and the work done
will be removed or changed to comply with all provisions of this code and the
plans and specifications therefore approved by the Building Official.
   D.   Examination And Issuance Of Permit: Upon the filing of an application
for a sign permit, it shall be the duty of the Building Official to examine
such application and other required data, and if it shall appear that the
proposed sign structure is in compliance with all applicable regulations, the
Building Official shall approve and recommend the issuance of the permit. If
the work authorized under the permit has not been completed within six (6)
months after the date of issuance, the permit shall become null and void.
   E.   Inspections:
      1.   The Village shall be permitted to make inspections at any time when
it reasonably believes that any sign may pose a threat or danger to public
safety.
   F.   Special Event Permit: It is recognized that special or extraordinary
circumstances or events, such as grand openings, may warrant the temporary
setting aside of the requirement of strict compliance with the existing sign
regulations. To accommodate such circumstances, a temporary "special event"
permit is created and may be issued subject to the following:
      1.   Upon receipt of an appropriate application, the Building Official is
authorized to recommend that the Clerk issue a temporary special event permit,
which will permit the use of such things as streamers, pennants, banners,
searchlights, and outdoor displays and sales, otherwise prohibited.
      2.   Those things otherwise prohibited but permitted by any such permit
will be limited to those which are specifically stated in the issued permit.
      3.   The Building Official will be the sole judge of whether any
applicant qualifies for such permit.
      4.   No special event permit shall be valid for a period in excess of
forty (40) days.
      5.   Applications for such permits, and all other requirements in
connection therewith, shall be as provided in this section for all other
permits.
      6.   No applicant (separate applicants on behalf of the same business or
premises shall be considered the same applicant) shall receive more than nine
(9) special event permits within any calendar year. No special event permit
shall exceed forty (40) days, and no more than one special event permit shall
be issued to any applicant within any fifty (50) day period.
   G.   Fees; New Signs: Every applicant, before being granted a permit to
erect a new sign, shall pay to the Village Clerk the following permit fee for
each such sign, or in the case of a special event permit, a forty (40) day fee
covering everything allowed thereby, unless otherwise exempted under the
provisions of subsection D of this section, according to the following
schedule:
      1.   Non illuminated sign: Fifty dollars ($50.00) per sign.
      2.   Marquee, fixed canopies, and fixed awnings: Fifty dollars ($50.00)
per marquee, canopy, or awning.
      3.   Illuminated signs and street clocks: One hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) per sign.
      4.   Retractable canopies and awnings: Fifty dollars ($50.00) per
retractable canopy or awning.
      5.   Special event: For applicants that have a valid Village of Hodgkins
Business License, a special event sign permit shall be issued without charge
when the applicant has obtained a permit for the event itself. For applicants
that have a valid Hodgkins Business License but are not obtaining a permit to
host an event of any kind, the first four (4) special event sign permits shall
be issued without charge, and thereafter each special event sign permit shall
be fifty dollars ($50.00). For applicants without a valid Village of Hodgkins
Business License, each special event sign permit shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) and shall be in addition to any permits and fees required for the
event itself.
      6.   Daily promotional signs: A sign six (6) square feet or less is fifty
dollars ($50.00) per quarter, and thirty two (32) square feet or less is one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) per quarter.
      7.   Freestanding sign: Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per sign.
   H.   Exceptions: Unless otherwise specified in this Chapter, no permit shall
be required for the construction, erection, or maintenance of the following
sign, provided such signs fully comply with the regulations of the Village
Sign, Building, and Zoning Ordinances.
      1.   Direction or information signs of a public or quasi public nature,
not exceeding six (6) square feet in area, may be permitted in any district
without a permit except as hereinafter provided. Such signs may be illuminated,
but any illumination thereof shall be nonflashing, uncolored, diffused, and
confined to the face of the sign; or they may be of the beaded reflector type.
No advertising matter whatsoever shall be contained in signs of this type,
which signs may be used for the purpose of stating:
         a.   Signs of a permanent nature which indicate the name or location
of a town, Village, hospital, community center, private school, college, YMCA,
and official or civic body such as a Chamber of Commerce, Rotary, Kiwanis, or
Lions Club.
         b.   Temporary signs indicating an event of public interest, such as a
local or general election, church or public meeting, and other similar
community affairs, may be erected on a thirty (30) day nonrefundable permit on
approval of the Building Official.
      2.   Real estate, for sale or for rent signs when not exceeding four (4)
square feet in area.
      3.   Vertical pole banner signs.
      4.   The exceptions permitted above shall apply only to the requirements
for a permit and shall not be constructed as relieving the owner of the sign
from responsibility for its erection and maintenance in a good and safe
condition and in compliance with the regulations of this Chapter.
   I.   Revocation of Permits: The Building Official is hereby authorized and
empowered to revoke any permit issued hereunder upon failure of the holder
thereof to comply with any provision of this Chapter within ten (10) days after
receiving written notice of such violation from the Building Official or other
authorized Village Official or employee. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-7: CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO SIGNS:
The following provisions are applicable to all signs subject to the provisions
of this section:
   A.   Signs Painted On Walls, Fences, And Roofs: No sign shall be painted on
masonry or frame walls, roofs, or fences, and all existing signs painted on
walls, fences, or roofs shall be removed within seven (7) years from the
effective date hereof.
   B.   Roof Signs: Signs shall not be erected on the roof of any building or
structure.
   C.   Signs over Public Ways: No sign, streamer, banner, flag, pennant, or
other advertising structure shall encroach upon, over, or across any public
street, alley, sidewalk, parkway, or park except a temporary sign, as provided
in this section.
   D.   Obstructions: No sign shall block any required access way, exit
discharge, or window or line of site to the public street or sidewalk.
   E.   Signs on Trees: No sign shall be attached to a tree.
   F.   Signs on Vacant Property: No sign other than an authorized temporary
sign may be erected on vacant property.
   G.   Signs on Awnings, Marquees, and Canopies: Signs on awnings, marquees,
and canopies shall be considered to be wall signs under the terms of this
section and subject to regulations; therefore, where applicable.
   H.   Sign Not To Constitute Traffic Hazard: No sign or related structure as
regulated by this Chapter shall be erected at the intersection of any streets
in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location
where, by reason of the position, shape or color, it may interfere with,
obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or
device; or which makes use of lights or any word, phrase, symbol or character
in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
   I.   Lighting near Residence District Regulated: No business or outdoor
advertising sign may be located within seventy five feet (75') of a Residence
District line. The illumination of any sign located within one hundred feet
(100') of a Residence District line shall be diffused or indirect, nonflashing,
and designed so as not to reflect direct rays of light into adjacent
residences.
   J.   Off Site Advertising: No person may maintain any advertising sign,
other than a billboard, which does not direct attention to or advertise a use,
business, commodity, service, or activity conducted, sold, or offered upon the
premises on which the sign is located.
   K.   Protection And Clearance Over Public Property: Signs, awnings, and
marquees may extend beyond the building line but not over a public way and
shall not be constructed closer to the property line than two feet (2') back of
a vertical line at the property line, and shall have a clearance of not less
than ten feet (10') above finished grade. Signs located within three feet (3')
of an alley, driveway, or parking area shall have a clearance of fourteen feet
(14') above finished grade.
   L.   Exposed Lighting Source Limitation: The exposed lighting source of an
illuminated sign shall be shaded, shielded, or directed in such a manner that
the light intensity or brightness will not be objectionable to the surrounding
areas. No exposed reflecting type bulb or incandescent lamp which exceeds
fifteen (15) watts shall be used in any sign.
   M.   Brightness Limitation: Sign brightness shall be no greater than the
recommended values for "luminous background sign luminance's" specified in the
latest edition of "Illuminating Engineering Society Of North America."
   N.   Illumination Limitations: Illuminated signs shall produce no more than
a one half (1/2) foot candle of illumination in an adjoining Residential
District or three (3) foot-candles' illumination in an adjoining Commercial
District. The maximum permitted illumination levels shall be measured
perpendicularly to the sign at the property line at ground level.
   O.   Blinking and Flashing Lights Limitations: No illuminated sign shall
contain blinking, flashing, or flurry lights or other illuminating devices
which have a changing light intensity, brightness, or color. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-
2022)
10-13-8: CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND ALTERATION:
All signs shall be constructed, maintained, and altered as follows:
   A.   Compliance with Building Code: All signs shall be constructed of
approved materials and maintained, repaired, and altered in compliance with the
requirements of the Building Code of the Village.
   B.   Compliance with Electrical Code: All signs employing or containing any
electrical wiring and/or connections shall comply with the Electrical Code of
the Village.
   C.   Metal Signs: The face and background of all metal signs shall be
constructed of metal not thinner than no. 28 B&S gauge. A metal faced sign may
utilize a wood frame and may contain letters, figures, characters, borders, or
moldings made of wood. Any wooden border shall not exceed three inches (3") in
width.
   D.   Maintenance of Signs: Owners shall paint and maintain all parts and
supports of each sign owned by them, as necessary to prevent rusting, rotting
or deterioration, or the endangering of public health or safety.
   E.   Wind Pressure and Dead Load Requirements: Every sign shall be designed
and constructed to withstand a wind pressure of thirty (30) pounds per square
foot and to receive dead loads as required by the Building Code or other
applicable ordinances or regulations.
   F.   Glass Requirements: Glass forming any part of a sign shall be heavy
safety glass having a minimum thickness of one fourth inch (1/4"). Any single
piece or pane of glass exceeding three (3) square feet in area shall be wired
glass or plexiglass.
   G.   Alterations: No sign or other advertising structure shall be altered,
rebuilt, enlarged, extended, or relocated except in conformance with the
provisions of this section. The repainting, changing of parts, and preventive
maintenance of signs shall not be deemed to be alterations. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-
2022)
10-13-9: LOCATION:
Signs shall be located on the same premises as the principal use served and in
yards or attached to buildings as follows:
   A.   Residential Districts: Permitted signs may be located anywhere on the
property but not closer than three feet (3') to any lot line.
   B.   Nonresidential Districts: No sign shall project into the public right
of way, nor shall a sign attached to a building extend more than twelve inches
(12") from the face of the building.
   C.   Height: No building sign shall extend above the top line of the face of
the building and, in no case, exceed a height of twenty feet (20') above
average surrounding grade. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-10: SIZE, HEIGHT, AND NUMBER LIMITATIONS:
   A.   All Residential Districts; Nonflashing, Non illuminated Accessory
Signs:
      1.   Nameplates and identification signs, subject to the following:
         a.   For one and two-family dwellings, there shall be not more than
one nameplate, not exceeding one (1) square foot in area, for each dwelling
unit, indicating the name and address of the occupant or permitted occupation.
         b.   For multiple-family dwellings, for apartment hotels, and for
buildings other than dwellings, a single identification sign not exceeding
twelve (12) square feet in area and indicating only the name and address of the
building and the name of the management thereof may be displayed.
         c.   No sign shall project higher than one story or fifteen feet (15')
above curb level, whichever is lower.
      2.   For sale and to rent signs, subject to the following:
         a.   There shall be not more than one such sign per lot, except that
on a corner lot, two (2) signs, one (1) facing each street, shall be permitted.
No sign shall exceed eight (8) square feet in area nor be closer than eight
feet (8') to any other Zoning lot.
         b.   No sign shall project higher than one story or fifteen feet (15')
above curb level, whichever is lower.
      3.   Signs accessory to parking areas, subject to the following:
         a.   Signs designating entrances or exits to or from a parking area
and limited to one sign for each such exit or entrance and to a maximum size of
three (3) square feet each shall be permitted. One sign per parking area
designating the conditions of use or identity of such parking area and limited
to a maximum size of eight (8) square feet shall be permitted, provided that on
a corner lot, two (2) such signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
         b.   No sign shall project higher than seven feet (7') above curb
level.
      4.   Church bulletins, subject to the following:
         a.   There shall be not more than one sign per lot, except that on a
corner lot, two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted. No sign
shall exceed eighteen (18) square feet in area nor be closer than eight feet
(8') to any other Zoning lot.
         b.   No sign shall project beyond the property line into the public
way.
         c.   No sign shall project higher than one story or fifteen feet (15')
above curb level, whichever is lower.
   B.   All Nonresidential Districts: Every business, as defined herein, shall
be permitted to erect signs indicating only the business name and address and
the major enterprise or the principal product offered for sale on the premises.
The following standards shall apply:
      1.   a.   Wall signs shall be permitted. A wall sign containing a sign
surface area not to exceed two hundred fifty (250) square feet shall be
permitted for any one premises housing a single nonresidential entity. Should
any one premises house more than a single nonresidential entity, a wall sign
shall be permitted for each entity based upon the following: Each such entity
will be permitted two and one half (2-1/2) square feet of sign surface area for
each front foot the entity occupies in the building or structure at the
premises up to a maximum of two hundred fifty (250) square feet.
         b.   Opaque metal sides and backs with external surfaces shall be
primed and painted. Faces will be flat (not formed) virgin acrylic. Faces are
to be internally lighted using neon with number of tubes to ensure even
illumination, showing neither dark nor hot spots. All letters are to be
internally lighted with neon and have no exposed neon. Transformers are to be
concealed in each letter or concealed behind the sign band wall above the
ceiling in the tenant space.
         c.   Face retainers shall be metal or plastic, such as "trim cap," and
encompass the entire perimeter of each letter. No tab mounted letter faces will
be permitted.
      2.   Building or window identification signs shall be permitted. A
building or window identification sign containing a sign surface area of not to
exceed thirty percent (30%) shall be permitted.
      3.   Ground signs shall be permitted. A ground sign containing a sign
surface not to exceed two hundred (200) square feet shall be permitted.
      4.   A shopping center containing two (2) or more businesses may elect to
construct or erect two (2) freestanding or ground signs identifying said
shopping center, subject to the following criteria:
         a.   No other freestanding or ground sign shall be constructed or
erected within the area compromising the shopping center except for shopping
center "outparcels," which shall each be allowed two (2) ground signs and two
(2) wall signs as provided herein. Said "outparcel" ground signs shall be
mounted on a masonry base with no exposed pole structure and shall not exceed
eight feet (8') in height nor one hundred (100) square feet in surface area.
         b.   The freestanding or ground sign shall not contain any
advertisement other than the identity of the shopping center and the businesses
located therein.
         c.   The total sign surface area of such shopping center freestanding
or ground sign shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet in sign surface
area.
      5.   In addition to the signage permitted herein, establishments whose
principal business is the sale of gasoline and the repair of motor vehicles
shall be permitted the following accessory signs:
         a.   Signs, as required by law, indicating the price of gasoline
available on the premises, limited so as not to exceed the maximum of sixty
(60) square feet for any one premise.
         b.   Racks for the orderly display of cans of engine oil located on or
at the ends of pump islands. A maximum of six (6) of such racks shall be
permitted for any premises.
         c.   Racks for the orderly display of tires, not more than eight feet
(8') in length, six feet (6') in height, and five feet (5') in depth. A maximum
of two (2) such racks shall be permitted for any premises.
      6.   Building signs shall be no higher than the height of the building
and no lower than five feet (5') above average surrounding grade; provided,
however, that no such sign shall be lower than ten feet (10') above the average
surrounding grade when located above any entrance, sidewalk, walkway, or other
area available for pedestrian traffic. No freestanding or ground sign shall be
constructed or erected to a height greater than twenty feet (20') above the
average surrounding grade.
      7.   The sign surface area provisions set forth herein above are
applicable only where only one sign is constructed or erected upon any one
premises. If more than one sign is constructed or erected upon any one
premises, the total permissible sign surface area for each type of sign erected
or constructed on any premises shall be reduced by twenty five percent (25%)
for each such sign erected in excess of one. The construction or erection of a
shopping center freestanding or ground sign as permitted in subsection B4 of
this section shall not be considered in applying the sign surface area
reduction requirements set forth herein above. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-11: ILLUMINATION STANDARDS:
   A.   Signs in direct line of vision of motorists approaching any traffic
signal shall not have red, green, or amber illumination.
   B.   Neither the direct nor reflected light from primary light sources shall
create traffic hazards for or confuse operators of motor vehicles on public
thoroughfares.
   C.   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights or other
illuminating devices which have a changing light intensity, brightness, or
color. Beacon lights are not permitted.
   D.   No exposed reflective type bulb or incandescent lamp which exceeds
fifteen (15) watts shall be used on the exterior surface of a sign so as to
expose the face of the bulb, light, or lamp to any public street or adjacent
property.
   E.   All sources of light, whether by direct exposure, surface reflections,
or transmissions, having an intrinsic brightness greater than thirty (30) foot
lamberts shall be shielded so that the source of light cannot be seen at any
point within a Residence District.
   F.   Any luminous source of light, whether direct exposure, surface
reflection, or transmission, whose total area is larger than one square foot
and which can be seen from any point within a Residence District, shall exceed
a brightness value of one hundred fifty (150) foot lamberts.
   G.   No source of light shall be permitted to cause illumination in excess
of one half (1/2) foot candle in a Residence District.
   H.   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded, or
directed that the light intensity or brightness will not be objectionable to
surrounding areas. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-12: UNSAFE AND UNLAWFUL SIGNS:
If it is found that any sign regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or is a
menace to the public, or has been constructed or erected, or is being
maintained in violation of the provisions of this or any applicable Village
Code, Ordinance, or regulation, written notice to shall be given the permittee
thereof. If the permittee fails to remove or alter the structure so as to
comply with the required standards within ten (10) days after receipt of such
notice, such sign may be removed or altered to comply by the Village at the
expense of the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is located. No
further permits shall be issued to any permittee or owner who refuses to pay
costs so assessed.
The Village may cause any sign, which is an immediate peril to persons or
property, to be removed summarily and without notice. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-13: REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS:
Any sign now or hereafter existing intended to advertise a use, business,
commodity, service, or activity conducted, sold, or offered at the premises
upon which the sign is located but which no longer advertises that use,
business, commodity, service, or activity, shall be taken down and removed by
the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the land, building or
structure upon which such sign may be found within ten (10) days after written
notification from the Village to do so, and, upon failure to comply with such
notice within the time specified in such notice, the Village may cause removal
of such sign, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of
the land, building or structure upon which such sign is located. (Ord. 22-04,
4-11-2022)
10-13-14: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the Building Official to
administer and enforce the provisions of this Chapter, the same to be done in
conjunction with other applicable codes and ordinances of the Village. In case
of a conflict between any of the provisions of this Chapter and those of
another code or ordinance, in a given instance, the more restrictive of the two
(2) shall govern.
   B.   Variations:
      1.   Application for Variation: Applications for variations may be filed
by any person having a proprietary interest in property. Such applications for
variation shall be filed with the Clerk of the Village, who shall forward a
copy of same to the Zoning Board of Appeals without delay. The application
shall be in such numbers of copies, be in such form, and contain such
information as the Village may prescribe from time to time, but shall in all
instances contain the following:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant and the owner of the
property in question;
         b.   Street address of the property in question;
         c.   A concise written statement explaining the nature of the
variation being sought, or the sections of this Chapter from which the
variation is being sought, and the extent of the sign's compliance with the
standards set forth; and
         d.   Photographs and/or scale drawings as may be appropriate to
explain the nature of the sign or to explain the need for the variation.
      2.   The Hearing: The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village shall hold a
public hearing thereon pursuant to the rules for public hearings applicable to
all other hearings before said Board. Following the hearing, the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall transmit to the Village President and Village Board a written
report giving its findings as to the proposed variation and giving its
recommendations for action to be taken by the Village President and Village
Board.
      3.   Standards: With respect to existing signs, a variation from existing
regulations shall not be granted unless evidence is presented that:
         a.   Because of the age, cost, or unique characteristics of the sign
(s) in question, the strict enforcement of such regulations would impose an
undue hardship on the applicant;
         b.   The proposed variation would not merely serve as a convenience to
the applicant but would alleviate some demonstrable hardship not generally
applicable to other properties;
         c.   The waiver of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any other
applicable regulation, would not have a detrimental effect on any other nearby
property;
         d.   The proposed variation is in harmony with the spirit and intent
of this Chapter.
      4.   With respect to the erection of new signs, a variation from existing
regulations shall not be granted unless evidence is presented that:
         a.   The proposed variation will not be materially detrimental to
other nearby property;
         b.   That notwithstanding the benefits, the property in question will
suffer some demonstrable and irreversible hardship if made to conform to the
strict letter of applicable regulations;
         c.   The alleged hardship has not been created by anyone presently
having a proprietary interest in the property; and
         d.   The proposed variation is in harmony with the spirit and intent
of this Chapter. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-13-15: LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   All signs legally in existence on the date of the adoption of this
Chapter, and not specifically prohibited in Section
10-13-5 hereof, which are not in compliance with this Chapter or any other
applicable code, ordinance or regulation, or any amendment thereto governing
the use of signs shall be termed legal nonconforming signs and may be continued
only as provided in this Chapter.
   B.   Whenever a legal nonconforming use of a sign has been discontinued for
a period of six (6) consecutive months, or whenever there is evidently a clear
intent on the part of the owner to abandon a legal nonconforming sign use, such
use shall not, after being discontinued or abandoned, be reestablished, and the
use of the sign thereafter shall be in conformity with the all applicable
regulations.
   C.   Normal maintenance of a legal nonconforming sign is permitted,
including necessary nonstructural repairs and incidental alterations, which do
not extend or intensify the legal nonconforming use.
   D.   No structural alteration, enlargement, or extension shall be made for a
legal nonconforming sign, except in the following situations:
      1.   When the alteration is required by law;
      2.   When the alteration will actually result in the elimination of the
nonconforming use.
   E.   If a legal nonconforming sign is damaged or destroyed by any means to
the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its replacement value at that
time, the sign can be rebuilt or used thereafter only for a conforming use and
in compliance with the provisions of this Code. In the event the damage or
destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, based
upon prevailing costs, the sign may then be restored to its original condition
and use until the legal nonconforming sign use is otherwise abated by the
provisions of this code. In either event, restoration or repair of the sign
must be started within a period of six (6) months from the date of damage or
destruction and diligently pursued to completion. In every case, the
reconstructed sign shall conform to the Building and Electrical Codes in force
at the time of its reconstruction.
   F.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, all legal
nonconforming signs shall be brought into compliance:
      1.   Immediately upon their becoming an obsolete sign as defined in this
Chapter; or,
      2.   Immediately upon discontinuation when the nature of the business
using and/or advertising upon any such sign is changed.
   G.   No conforming sign shall be erected on the same Zoning lot with an
existing legal nonconforming sign until the legal nonconforming sign has been
removed or made to conform. However, in commercial centers, the fact that one
particular business or activity has a legal nonconforming sign will not
prohibit another business or activity within the same center from erecting a
conforming sign. (Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
CHAPTER 14
ADULT USE CANNABIS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose Adult-Use Cannabis
10-14-2: Conditional Use
10-14-3: Components For Compliance
10-14-4: Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
10-14-5: Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center
10-14-6: Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
10-14-7: Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization
10-14-8: Additional Requirements
10-14-9: Co-location Of Cannabis Business Establishments
10-14-1: PURPOSE ADULT-USE CANNABIS:
Purpose and Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of the section to
provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing, and dispensing of
Adult-Use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the Village of
Hodgkins. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Act, as it may be amended from time to time and regulations promulgated
thereunder and the regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is
amended, the more restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
(Ord. 20-08, 3-9-2020, amd. Ord. 21-06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-14-2: CONDITIONAL USE:
Conditional Use: Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment facilities, as
defined herein, requiring approval of a condition use in the respective
districts in which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with
section
10-2-5 (Conditional Uses) of this Title and this Chapter 14 (Adult-Use Cannabis
Facility Components) as provided herein. (Ord. 20-08, 3-9-2020, amd. Ord. 21-
06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-14-3: COMPONENTS FOR COMPLIANCE:
Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components: In determining compliance with section
10-2-5 (Conditional Uses) of this Title, the following components of the Ault-
Use Cannabis Facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the
circumstances affecting the particular property in the context of the existing
and intended future use of the properties:
   A.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
   B.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including co
tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan, and Building Code Compliance.
   C.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
   D.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
   E.   Anticipated parking demand and available private parking supply.
   F.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
   G.   Proposed signage plan.
   H.   Compliance with all requirements provided in section
10-14-4 (Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower); section
10-14-5 (Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center); section
10-14-7 (Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization).
   I.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
section
10-2-5 Conditional Uses of this Title. (Ord. 20-08, 3-9-2020, amd. Ord. 21-06,
5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-14-4: ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:
Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower: In those Zoning Districts in which an Ault-Use
Cannabis Craft Grower may be locate, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500')
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, daycare center, daycare home, or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
   B.   The facility must be in an area Zoned "Light Manufacturing."
   C.   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis Craft
Grower shall be classified as Light Manufacturing per section 6A of this Title.
   D.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with this section
10-14-4 and all other requirements of the Act. (Ord. 20-08, 3-9-2020, amd. Ord.
21-06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-14-5: ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:
Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center: In those Zoning Districts in which an
Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center may be located, the proposed facility
must comply with the following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500')
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, daycare center, daycare home, or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
   B.   Facility must be located in area Zoned "Light Manufacturing."
   C.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
   D.   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Cultivation Centers shall be classified as "Light Manufacturing" provided;
however, the Village may require that additional parking be provided as a
result of the analysis completed through section
10-2-5 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
   E.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with this section
10-14-5 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act. (Ord. 20-08,
3-9-2020, amd. Ord. 21-06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-14-6: ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION:
Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those Zoning districts in which
an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization may be locate, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500')
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, daycare center, daycare home, or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of the section.
   B.   Facility must be located in an area Zoned "Commercial" or "Light
Manufacturing."
   C.   Facility may be shared with an Adult-Use Craft Grower, but separation
of activities and employed personnel of the Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing
Organization must be in accordance with the Act.
   D.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution other than as
authorized by the Act.
   E.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Commercial" per section
10-5-1 of the Village of Hodgkins Zoning Code, provided, however, that the
Village may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the
analysis completed through this section
10-2-5 (Adult- Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
   F.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with section
10-14-6 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act. (Ord. 20-08,
3-9-2020, amd. Ord. 21-06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-14-7: ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION:
Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization: In those Zoning Districts in which an
Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization may be located, the proposed facility
must comply with the following:
   A.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred (1,500')
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, daycare center, daycare home, or
residential care home. Learning centers and purposes of this Section.
   B.   Facility shall be located in a "Light Manufacturing" Zoning area.
   C.   An infuser may share premises with an Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
or an Adult-Use Dispensing Organization, or both provided each licensee
operates in accordance with the Act.
   D.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall be
classified as "Light Manufacturing" per Section
10-6A-1 of the Village of Hodgkins Zoning Code provided; however, the Village
may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the analysis
completed through section
10-2-5 (Adult-Use Cannabis: Conditional Use) herein.
   E.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the Village affirming
compliance with this section
10-14-7 as provided herein and all other requirements of the Act. (Ord. 20-08,
3-9-2020, amd. Ord. 21-06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-14-8: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Additional Requirements: Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such
as security cameras, lighting, or other improvements, as set forth in the
conditional use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and customers of the
Adult-Use cannabis business establishments, as well as its environs. Said
improvements shall be determined based on the specific characteristics of the
floor plan for an Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment and the site on
which it is located, consistent with the requirements of the Act. (Ord. 20-08,
3-9-2020, amd. Ord. 21-06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
10-14-9: CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS:
Co-Location of Cannabis Business Establishments: The Village may approve the
co-location of an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization with an Adult-Use
Cannabis Craft Grower Center or an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization, or
both, subject to the provisions of the Act and the Conditional Use criteria
within the Village of Hodgkins Zoning Code. In a co location establishment, the
uses therein shall be exclusive to the Facility. (Ord. 20-08, 3-9-2020, amd.
Ord. 21-06, 5-20-2021; Ord. 22-04, 4-11-2022)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Administrative Authority
11-1-5: Definitions
11-1-6: Compliance With Village Standards
11-1-7: Effect Of Zoning Provisions; General Requirements
11-1-8: Variations
11-1-9: Name Of Subdivision
11-1-10: Copies Of Provisions
11-1-11: Penalties
11-1-1: TITLE:
The regulations contained in this title shall be referred to officially as the
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF THE VILLAGE OF HODGKINS, ILLINOIS, and the term
"regulations" or "subdivision regulations" when used in this chapter shall mean
and shall have the force and effect of ordinance provisions of the village.
(1985 Code § 10-1-1)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
In order to provide subdivision requirements before the realization of the
official plan of the village; in order to provide reasonable requirements for
public streets, community facilities and other public grounds; in order to
provide for the health, safety, comfort and conveniences of the residents of
the village and contiguous territory; and in order that developers of land may
have a procedural guide, the regulations of this title establishing reasonable
standards of design and procedure for subdivision and for resubdivision of
unimproved land of areas subject to redevelopment within the village and
contiguous and unincorporated territory, are hereby adopted as part of the
official plan of the village. (1985 Code § 10-1-2)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
   A.   This title shall be applicable to all subdivisions and resubdivisions
of improved and unimproved land, whether residential, commercial or industrial,
and areas subject to redevelopment within the corporate limits of the village
and contiguous unincorporated territory.
   B.   The provisions of this title shall apply to all new subdivisions as
defined herein; except, that the provisions for hearings before the reference
for the submittal to the zoning board of appeals may be waived by the village
president upon application, in which case, the plan may be submitted directly
to the president and board of trustees for approval. This waiver shall not be
exercised when the large tracts of the industrial area or motor freight
terminal area are to be developed for residential purposes. (1985 Code § 10-1-
3)
11-1-4: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
Authority for the administration of this title shall be vested in the zoning
board of appeals, which may be hereafter referred to as the ZBA. (1985 Code §
10-1-4)
11-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
ALLEY: A minor public right of way used primarily for vehicular service access
to the rear or side of properties.
   BUFFER PLANTING STRIP: A narrow area planted with trees and shrubs for
screening purposes.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line indicating the minimum horizontal distance
between the property line and buildings, either at the front or side of the
lot.
   CROSSWALKWAY: A public right of way, ten feet (10') or more in width,
between property lines, which provides pedestrian access to adjacent
properties.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A short street having one end open to traffic and being
terminated at the other end by a vehicular turnaround.
   EASEMENT: A grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by others for
specific purposes.
   FINAL PLAT: The final map or drawing on which the subdivision plan is
submitted to the zoning committee for approval and which, if approved by the
zoning committee and the trustees, will be submitted to the county recorder for
recording. The final plat must be prepared by a registered Illinois land
surveyor.
   IMPROVEMENTS, PUBLIC: Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, roadway, parkway strip, sidewalk, planting strip, crosswalkway, off
street parking area, or other facility for which the village may ultimately
assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation.
   LOT: A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of ownership
or for development.
   LOTS OF RECORD: See section
10-1-3 of this code.
   MAJOR STREET: A street of great continuity, sometimes called an arterial
street or highway, which serves or is intended to serve as a principal
trafficway for fast or heavy traffic and which, taken together with other major
streets, comprises the basic structure of the street system of the village and
surrounding area.
   MAJOR STREET PLAN: A part of the official plan showing the location and
dimensions of principal thoroughfares.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A street running parallel to and adjacent to or in
the immediate vicinity of a major street or highway and which has as its
purpose, the relief of such major street or highway from the local service of
abutting properties.
   MINIMUM STREET SETBACK LINES: The minimum setback from the center of the
street from which all setback lines shall be measured.
   MINOR STREET: A street of limited continuity which serves or is intended to
serve the local needs of a neighborhood.
   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER: One employed by the village in its public works
department.
   OFFICIAL PLAN: The village zoning map or any portion thereof made and
adopted by the village. After the receipt of and approval by the board of
trustees, the comprehensive plan adopted by the plan commission and so
approved, shall be the official plan.
   PARKWAY STRIP: A strip of land between the roadway and the sidewalk or
sidewalk site.
   PERSON WITH DISABILITIES: A mentally or physically impaired person.
   PRELIMINARY LAYOUT: The preliminary map or drawing on which the proposed
layout of the subdivision is submitted to the zoning committee for
consideration and tentative approval.
   ROADWAY: The portion of a street available for vehicular traffic; where
curbs are laid, the portion between curbs.
   SECONDARY STREET: A street of considerable continuity, sometimes called a
collector street, which serves or is intended to serve as a secondary
trafficway and as a feeder between minor streets in a neighborhood and one or
more major streets.
   SIDE YARD: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building and
located between said building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the street line to the rear yard.
   SIDEWALK: The portion of a street or crosswalkway, paved or otherwise
surfaced, intended for pedestrian use only.
   STREET: A public right of way having the primary purpose of providing for
vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person, group or corporation acting as a unit or any agent
thereof, dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a
"subdivision" as defined herein.
   SUBDIVISION: The division of any lot, tract or parcel of land, regardless of
zoning, into two (2) or more lots or other divisions (including condominiums)
of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership
or for building development; or if a new street or easement is involved or
required for use of the land, or by the official plan, any division of such
parcel. The term includes resubdivisions and, where appropriate to the context,
shall relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
Application for permit to construct two (2) or more dwellings on a parcel or
tract of land or to construct one or more additional dwellings on a parcel or
tract of land where one or more dwellings already exist shall be construed as a
building development envisioning future transfer of ownership and shall be
regarded as a subdivision. For the purpose of administration of this title, a
lot, parcel or tract of land shall be deemed to have the boundaries and
dimensions given in the current maps of record of the county of Cook; except,
that such lot, parcel or tract shall not be construed to be a lot of record
where it has not been platted as such. No subdivision plat is required for the
assembly of entire lots of record into a larger lot or lots.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER: Such registered professional engineer or firm as may be
appointed by the president to serve as the village engineering representative
and approved by the trustees. (1985 Code § 10-1-5; amd. Ord. 92-22, 6-8-1992;
2016 Code)
11-1-6: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE STANDARDS:
   A.   Official Plan: This title is hereby made a part of the official plan of
the village, and subdivisions shall conform to the said official plan or the
portions thereof existing, and shall not encroach upon areas designated in the
official plan for future public facilities.
   B.   Subdivision Regulations:
      1.   No grading, building or construction of any kind relating to
development of land within the definition of "subdivision" in section
11-1-5 of this chapter shall be started except in accordance with this title.
      2.   Construction of improvements shall be in accordance with this title.
      3.   Construction of buildings and dwellings shall be started only after
issuance of building permits, and no building permit shall be issued prior to
recording of the final plat. (1985 Code § 10-1-6)
11-1-7: EFFECT OF ZONING PROVISIONS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
No piece or parcel of land, lot or block, whether in a previously recorded or
registered subdivision or not on the effective date of the zoning title, shall
be divided, apportioned or resubdivided into lots for building purposes unless
a plat of such piece or parcel of land, lot or block has been authorized by the
village board and said plat registered or recorded as required by law in
relation to plats. This provision shall not apply, however, where there is a
previously recorded or registered subdivision plat and, in order to meet the
minimum requirements of the zoning title, a dwelling is to be erected on a full
lot or more and parcel of an adjoining lot. The subdivision shall provide for
sanitary sewer, water, sidewalks, street lighting, dedicated streets of at
least sixty six feet (66') in width; except, that half section lines shall be
eighty feet (80') in width and section line streets one hundred feet (100') in
width; paved streets of cement or asphalt materials with curb, gutter, and
storm drainage according to "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction" adopted by the Illinois department of transportation then in
force, and lot sizes of a minimum of six thousand (6,000) square feet;
provided, the frontage is a minimum of fifty feet (50'); the improvements to be
installed at the owner's expense with sufficient surety to cover the cost based
on the estimate of the village engineer; and provided further, that on roads in
industrial subdivisions, sidewalks shall only be required on the roads abutting
a residential area or zone. (1985 Code § 10-1-7; amd. 2016 Code)
11-1-8: VARIATIONS:
Variations and exceptions from the design and dimensional standards and
improvement requirements of this title may be made by the ZBA in cases where,
owing to exceptional conditions, there are extreme difficulties or hardships in
the way of carrying out the strict letter hereof. Resubdivision of a single lot
of a platted block of an old subdivision shall be considered as an exceptional
condition meriting departure from the strict letter of this title. No variation
or exception shall be made that will be detrimental to the public welfare or
that will affect adversely the official plan, and no variation shall be allowed
without a public hearing before the ZBA, in accordance with the procedure for
public hearings provided for in the zoning title; however, no additional fee
shall be charged. (1985 Code § 10-1-8)
11-1-9: NAME OF SUBDIVISION:
The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate, nor too closely approximate
phonetically, the name of any other subdivision within or near the village.
(1985 Code § 10-1-9)
11-1-10: COPIES OF PROVISIONS:
Copies of this title may be made available at the village office for purchase
by any interested person at a cost of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per copy.
(1985 Code § 10-1-10; amd. 2016 Code)
11-1-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Unless a separate fine or penalty is otherwise provided in this title,
any person who violates, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists or
opposes the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title, shall be fined
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense; and every such person shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for every day on which such violation, neglect or refusal
shall continue. Any owner who shall apportion or divide any land without
complying with or in violation of any of the provisions of this title; any
surveyor, engineer, or person drawing plans or subdividing any lands in
violation of the provisions of this title; any builder or contractor who shall
construct any building in violation of any of the provisions of this title; and
any architect designing, drawing plans for or having charge of any such
building or who shall permit it to be constructed in violation of the
provisions of this title, shall be liable to the penalties provided and imposed
by this section. (1985 Code § 10-1-11; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   In addition to the penalty provided in subsection A of this section,
the village may file suit and proceed to demolish, repair, enclose, recover
cost or sue to cause compliance. (1985 Code § 10-1-11)
CHAPTER 2
PLATTING PROCEDURE
SECTION:
11-2-1: Preliminary Consultations
11-2-2: Preliminary Plat
11-2-2-1: Submission
11-2-2-2: Required Form And Information
11-2-2-3: Approval Procedure
11-2-2-4: Fees
11-2-3: Final Plat
11-2-3-1: Submission
11-2-3-2: Plat Requirements And Information
11-2-3-3: Approval Procedure
11-2-4: Commercial And Industrial Developers
11-2-1: PRELIMINARY CONSULTATIONS:
While the subdivision plan is still in sketch form, the subdivider may consult
with the plan commission to determine conformity to the official plan,
including the major street plan, the zoning title, and compliance with this
code and with other village ordinances not in conflict herewith. (1985 Code §
10-2-1)
11-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
Prior to the completion of the final survey of streets and lots of any
subdivision and before any map of the subdivision is made in form suitable for
recording, a preliminary layout, prepared in accordance with the regulations
set forth herein, shall be submitted to the plan commission for its review and
recommendations. In the event a proposed subdivision is one acre or less in
area, the subdivider shall have the right to dispense with preparation of the
preliminary layout and to proceed directly with submission of the final plat.
In such case, the fee provided in section 11-2-2-4 of this chapter shall be
payable upon submission of the final plat. The subdivider must submit
preliminary plans. (1985 Code § 10-2-2)
11-2-2-1: SUBMISSION:
An application, in writing, in quadruplicate for the conditional approval of
the subdivision, together with ten (10) prints of the preliminary layout shall
be filed in the village hall at least five (5) days prior to the regular
monthly meeting of the plan commission to receive action at such meeting. The
plan commission shall determine whether the preliminary layout is in proper
form and shall not receive or consider the application as filed until all
documents are in accordance with the requirements set forth herein. (1985 Code
§ 10-2-2-1)
11-2-2-2: REQUIRED FORM AND INFORMATION:
The preliminary layout tracings and prints shall have dimensions that are
multiples of nine inches (9") along one side and multiples of twelve inches
(12") along the adjacent side. Tracings shall be submitted rolled in a mailing
tube, and prints shall be submitted folded to nine inches by twelve inches (9"
x 12"). The drawing shall be to a scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1"
= 100'). The preliminary layout shall contain the following information:
   A.   Name of the subdivision.
   B.   Legal description of location.
   C.   Scale of the layout or plat.
   D.   Date.
   E.   Statement of whether the north point is true or magnetic and whether
bearings shown on the plat are true or magnetic.
   F.   Boundary lines of the subdivision with length and bearing lines.
   G.   Relationship of the subdivision to section and half section lines and
to any adjacent village boundary lines and distances and bearings to nearest
official monuments.
   H.   The location, widths and names of streets or other public ways,
easements, railroad and utility rights of way, both within the subdivision and
those adjacent to or leading into the subdivision.
   I.   Proposed methods of providing for stormwater, sanitary sewage and
water.
   J.   Location of land intended to be dedicated to public use or reserved in
the deeds for the use of all property owners in the subdivision.
   K.   Numbers and dimensions of lots and blocks.
   L.   Minimum front and side setback lines.
   M.   Location of watercourses and other important features. Indicate flood
levels of watercourses.
   N.   Contours, with intervals of five feet (5') or less, referred to sea
level datum.
   O.   Name and address of the owner and subdivider and name of the designer
of the preliminary layout.
   P.   The names of subdivisions immediately adjacent and the names of the
owners of record of adjacent unsubdivided tracts.
   Q.   Existing permanent buildings or structures within or adjacent to the
tract.
   R.   Where the preliminary layout covers only a part of the subdivider's
entire holding, a sketch of the prospective street system of the unsubmitted
part shall be furnished, and the street system of the submitted part will be
considered in light of adjustments and connections with the street system of
the part not submitted.
   S.   If the informal consideration indicates that the subdivision is a
portion of a unit area for development on the official plan, the preliminary
layout shall include a small scale study of the unit area. (1985 Code § 10-2-2-
2)
11-2-2-3: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   The plan commission shall study the preliminary layout in connection
with the official plan, if one is adopted by the village, including the major
street plan, the zoning title and the topography of the area, and will take
into consideration the general requirements of the community, the particular
requirements for parks, playgrounds, school sites, major streets, and adequacy
of street connections and the suitability of the land for development. The
preliminary layout will also be subject to check by the president.
   B.   The plan commission shall communicate its conditional approval or its
disapproval, in writing, to the subdivider within sixty (60) days of the time
at which application for conditional approval is made, giving, in cases of
conditional approval, the specific changes which it will require in the
preliminary layout and the character and extent of the required public
improvements. Conditional approval by the plan commission of the preliminary
layout does not constitute acceptance of the plat of the proposed subdivision,
acceptance of proposed improvements or final agreement as to improvement
specifications or costs. It is to be considered only as approval of general
layout design.
Conditional approval of the preliminary layout shall be effective for a maximum
period of twelve (12) months; except, that submission within this period of a
final plat applying to a portion of the area covered by the preliminary layout
shall extend the effective period of conditional approval to a maximum of
twenty four (24) months from the date of submission of the preliminary layout.
If a final plat has not been submitted to the plan commission within these time
limits, the preliminary layout shall again be submitted to the plan commission
within these time limits, and the preliminary layout shall again be submitted
to the plan commission for conditional approval. (1985 Code § 10-2-2-3)
11-2-2-4: FEES:
   A.   In order to cover the costs of examining the layout, advertising and
holding public hearings, recording fees and other expenses incidental to the
approval of a subdivision, the subdivider shall pay a fee at the time of
application for conditional approval of a preliminary plat. There will be no
refund of any portion of the fee if the subdivider fails to apply for final
approval of the subdivision. If, because of the failure of the subdivider to
submit a final plat within twelve (12) months after receiving conditional
approval of a preliminary plat, it is necessary to resubmit a preliminary plat
for conditional approval, the subdivider shall be required to pay the fee
currently in effect at the time of resubmission. The fees for approval of a
subdivision shall be charged and collected at the following rates:
      1.   Where a public hearing is required, as in the case of variations:
Three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
      2.   Where no public hearing is required: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   All fees established by this section are in addition to any sums paid
to cover costs of preparation of improvement plans and field inspection of
construction as required under the provisions of this chapter, tax search,
copies and recording. (1985 Code § 10-2-2-4)
11-2-3: FINAL PLAT:
11-2-3-1: SUBMISSION:
After approval of the preliminary layout by the plan commission and fulfillment
of the required conditions, the subdivider shall apply in writing to the chair
of the plan commission for approval of a final plat. The final plat shall
conform substantially to the preliminary layout as given conditional approval.
The application shall be in duplicate and shall be accompanied by the original
inked plat on tracing cloth or vellum, one Van Dyke or sepia reproduction and
ten (10) prints certified by the surveyor as a true copy of the original. The
final plat will not be considered as submitted unless in agreement with
specifications and accompanied by required documents. Approval shall be given
only at regular meetings of the plan commission open to the public. (1985 Code
§ 10-2-3-1)
11-2-3-2: PLAT REQUIREMENTS AND INFORMATION:
   A.   Specifications And Information: The final plat shall conform to the
dimensional and scale standards of the preliminary layout and shall contain all
the information of subsections 11-2-2-2A through H and J through M of this
chapter and, in addition, shall contain the following information:
      1.   Accurate location and reference of all monuments which shall be
concrete blocks, six inches by six inches (6" x 6") and thirty inches (30")
long, properly centered and sunk to grade levels. Two (2) such monuments shall
be placed within each block as directed by the village engineer.
      2.   Certification by a registered professional engineer, registered land
surveyor or the village engineer to the effect that the plat represents a
survey made by him and that the monuments shown thereon actually exist as
located and that all dimensional and other details, such as curve data, are
correct.
      3.   Notarized certification by the owner or owners of the land or other
persons having an interest therein of the adoption of the plat and the
dedication of streets and other public areas.
      4.   Certification by signature of proper officials of Cook County that
there are no tax delinquencies. (1985 Code § 10-2-3-2)
      5.   Certification by signature of the village comptroller that there are
no special assessment delinquencies or other liens. (1985 Code § 10-2-3-2; amd.
2016 Code)
      6.   Approval by signature of the village attorney that satisfactory
conveyances and dedications to the village have been provided applying to
rights of way for streets, alleys and easements, and land for parks,
playgrounds and other public use.
      7.   Approval by signatures of the building inspector, village engineer
or municipal engineer indicating that the plat has been checked, that all
working drawings and specifications for improvements have been prepared in
conformance with village standards and requirements, that engineering fees have
been paid, and that said plat complies with the floodplain requirements.
      8.   Certification by signatures of the building inspector and village
attorney that satisfactory provisions have been made for guarantee of
performance for construction of required improvements where the improvements
are not in place. On items where construction has already been completed, there
shall be certification by the building inspector and village engineer that
construction has been completed and inspected and found to be in accordance
with village standards and requirements and that surety has been posted to
provide for repair of damage done while the subdivision is being completed.
      9.   Space for approval of the plan commission by date and signature of
its chair.
      10.   Space for approval of the village board by date and signature of
the clerk and the village seal.
   B.   Accompanying Documents:
      1.   Twelve (12) copies of the final plat shall be submitted and it shall
be accompanied by documents including the following:
         a.   Two (2) copies of working drawings and specifications for
improvements.
         b.   Two (2) copies of restrictions to be incorporated into deeds or
covenants to be recorded with the plat to be approved by the village attorney.
      2.   The documents and papers required by this section shall be
substantially the following:
         a.   Survey certification.
         b.   Certificate of ownership.
         c.   Additional certification if the property is under trusteeship.
         d.   County clerk certification. (1985 Code § 10-2-3-2)
         e.   Village comptroller certification. (1985 Code § 10-2-3-2; amd.
2016 Code)
         f.   Conveyance certification (when required).
         g.   Engineering approval (when required).
         h.   Guarantee of improvements (when required).
         i.   Plan commission approval.
         j.   Board of trustees approval. (1985 Code § 10-2-3-2)
11-2-3-3: APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
The plan commission shall communicate, in writing, to the subdivider its
disapproval or recommendation for approval of the final plat, together with the
reasons therefor, within sixty (60) days after the date on which application
for such approval is made. If the plan commission approves the final plat, such
approval will be entered upon the tracings by signature of the chair. The
tracings shall then be transmitted to the village board by the plan commission
with recommendation for board approval. Upon approval by board action, the
tracings shall be signed by the president and clerk and the village seal
affixed. Approval by the board shall be by resolution or ordinance setting
forth all conditions upon which approval is predicated. The original tracing
shall be recorded by the village attorney with the appropriate officials of
Cook County, and after recording, a certified copy shall be returned to the
village and filed by the clerk. The signed duplicate tracing shall be returned
to the plan commission for filing. Appropriate notifications shall be given the
plan commission and the subdivider advising board approval or disapproval. If
the plat is disapproved, the tracings are to be returned to the plan commission
with a statement of the reasons. Approval of the final plat by the plan
commission and the village board shall be null and void if the plat is not
acceptable for recording in the office of the recorder of deeds of Cook County.
(1985 Code § 10-2-3-3)
11-2-4: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPERS:
Developers of commercial and industrial areas shall proceed as if they were
proposing a planned unit development and follow this chapter as to those
sections that are applicable. (1985 Code § 10-2-4)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Street Plan
11-3-2: Streets And Alleys
11-3-3: Blocks
11-3-4: Lots
11-3-5: Natural Features
11-3-1: STREET PLAN:
   A.   If a suggested plan for the neighborhood or area in which the tract to
be subdivided is located has been made by the plan commission, the street
layout of the subdivision shall be in general conformance thereto.
   B.   Whenever a subdivision embraces a major street, as shown on the major
street plan, such major street shall be platted in the location and of the
width indicated on the major street plan. (1985 Code § 10-3-1)
11-3-2: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Street Layout:
      1.   The street layout shall be devised for the most advantageous
development of the entire neighborhood area. Where necessary to the
neighborhood pattern, existing principal streets in adjoining subdivisions
shall be continued and shall be at least as wide as such existing streets and
in alignment with them. The street layout shall provide for the future
projection of the principal streets into unsubdivided lands adjoining.
      2.   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through traffic
will be discouraged.
      3.   There shall be a minimum number of intersections of minor streets
with major streets.
   B.   Secondary Streets: Secondary streets shall be included when it is
apparent that sufficient traffic will flow from the minor streets within the
subdivision and that such traffic will need to be channeled in control of the
numbers of access points to the major street.
   C.   Marginal Access Streets: Where a subdivision has frontage on a major
street, as shown on the major street plan, or on a superhighway or other high
volume trafficway and where it is not feasible to have the lot's back to such
high volume streets, provisions shall be made for marginal access streets.
These marginal access streets shall be approximately parallel to and on each
side of the major street right of way and separated from such right of way by a
strip of land at least ten feet (10') wide. Separation strips may be provided
with screen planting, but such planting shall be so placed that it does not
obstruct vision at intersections.
   D.   Streets Authorized Adjacent To Railroads, Waterways Or Major Streets:
Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right of way, waterway or
major street, the plan commission may require a street approximately parallel
to and on each side of such right of way or major street, at a distance
suitable for appropriate use of the intervening requirements of approach grades
and future grade separations.
   E.   Streets At Business Centers: In front of areas zoned or designed for
industrial or commercial use, the street width and the roadway width shall be
increased on the side or sides on which the property for commercial use is
located by a merging lane at least fifteen feet (15') wide. This is to ensure
the free flow of traffic without interference by vehicles entering or leaving
the parking area. This is not a parking space requirement and shall in no way
affect or diminish requirements by the zoning title or otherwise for off street
parking facilities; neither shall fulfillment of this requirement and its
acceptance by the plan commission be deemed approval or endorsement of any
change in zoning necessary for such commercial use.
   F.   Alleys: Paved rear alleys not less than twenty feet (20') wide will be
required in all business and industrial districts or subdivisions except where
special conditions make alleys impracticable; in such cases, adequate off
street loading space, suitably surfaced, shall be provided. Dead end alleys
shall be avoided, or if provided, a turnaround shall be included. In general,
alleys will not be approved for residential districts or subdivisions.
   G.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be permitted only under exceptional
circumstances.
   H.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed four hundred feet (400') in
length and shall have a turnaround not less than one hundred twenty feet (120')
in diameter of right of way and pavement diameter of ninety feet (90') at the
closed end.
   I.   Street Grades: Street grades shall conform in general to the terrain
and shall not be less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) nor more than five
percent (5%). Street grades shall be such as to provide natural surface
drainage of stormwater regardless of the presence or absence of storm sewers.
The intent is to avoid depressions or inverts that will flood in flash storms
for which storm sewers are inadequate.
   J.   Street Widths:
      1.   Right Of Way Widths: The minimum right of way widths for streets,
alleys and crosswalks shall be:
Type Of Street Width (Feet)
Type Of Street                                                    Width (Feet)
Major, including section line (except in cases where a greater or 100
lesser width is shown on the major street plan)
Half section line                                                 80
Secondary                                                         66
Minor, for other residences                                       60
Cul-de-sac, radius                                                30
Marginal access (without intersecting streets)                    40
Alley                                                             20
Crosswalkway                                                      10
 
Greater right of way widths may be required in industrial and commercial areas.
      2.   Roadway Width: The following roadway widths from outside to outside
of curbs are required:
Type Of Roadway Width (Feet)
Type Of Roadway                                                  Width (Feet)
Major (except in cases where a greater or lesser width is shown) 51
Secondary street                                                 38
Industrial or commercial (greater widths may be required)        38
Minor street                                                     34
Cul-de-sac, radius:                                               
 Residential                                                    30
 Industrial or commercial                                       66
Marginal access (without intersecting streets)                   30
Alley:                                                            
 In business or industrial district                             20
 In residential district, where permitted by exception          16
Crosswalkway                                                     5
Sidewalk                                                         5
 
   K.   Street Curves: The minimum of curvature of streets on the centerline
shall be:
 
Type Of Street Curvature (Feet)
Major          600
Secondary      300
Minor          100
Cul-de-sac     100
 
Between reversed curves on major and secondary streets, there shall be a
tangent at least one hundred feet (100') long.
   L.   Angle Of Intersections: Street intersections shall be at right angles
or nearly so. Where, because of topographic or other reasons, an intersection
cannot be at right angles, such intersections shall be so designed as to ensure
safety.
   M.   Curb Radii: Curb radii shall not be less than twenty feet (20'). Where
an angle of intersection less than sixty degrees (60°) is permitted, curb radii
shall be increased as necessary for safety.
   N.   Street Names: Street names shall conform to extensions of existing
streets and shall be subject to the approval of the board. (1985 Code § 10-3-2)
11-3-3: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length Of Blocks: Except in industrial or commercial areas, blocks
shall not exceed one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length nor be less
than two hundred fifty feet (250') in length. Blocks longer than eight hundred
feet (800') in length may be required to have crosswalkways.
   B.   Blocks For Industrial And Commercial Use: Blocks intended for
industrial or commercial use shall be designed specifically for such purpose,
with adequate space set aside for off street parking and loading and meet
minimum requirements for parking.
   C.   Blocks On Major Streets: It is preferred that blocks adjacent to major
streets be so arranged that the long dimension of the block be parallel to the
major street and that lots do not front on or have access to the major street.
Where this arrangement is not feasible, marginal access streets may be
required. (1985 Code § 10-3-3)
11-3-4: LOTS:
   A.   Allowance For Future Streets And Subdivisions: If a tract is subdivided
into larger parcels than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged
to allow the opening of future streets and logical further subdivision.
   B.   Building Sites: Every lot must contain a suitable building site and be
able to conform to the requirements of the building and zoning regulations for
the erection and location of building structures.
   C.   Shape Of Lots: The shape of lots and their orientation shall be
appropriate to the location of the proposed subdivision and to the type of
development contemplated.
   D.   Width And Depth: Lots for residential use shall be at least fifty feet
(50') wide at the building setback line, and shall be at least six thousand
(6,000) square feet in area. In a resubdivision of lots of record, the plan
commission may vary the size of the lots to less than six thousand (6,000)
square feet, but not less than thirty seven and one-half feet (371/2'). The
maximum depth of any lot, exclusive of unusable land, shall be three and one-
half (31/2) times the width of the lot.
   E.   Lots To Abut On Streets: Every lot shall abut on a dedicated and
improved street for at least twenty five feet (25').
   F.   Setbacks And Side Yards: Setbacks and side yards shall conform to the
zoning title. When the side yard is to be used as a side drive, it shall be not
less than nine feet (9') in width. Rear yard setback shall be at least three
feet (3') from the rear property line. All front setback lines shall be
measured from the minimum street setback lines.
   G.   Property Lines At Corners: Property lines at street intersection
corners shall be arcs having radii of at least ten feet (10') or shall be
chords of such area.
   H.   Side Lines: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles
or radial to the street line.
   I.   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots, other than corner lots,
will be permitted only under unusual circumstances. (1985 Code § 10-3-4)
11-3-5: NATURAL FEATURES:
Outstanding natural and cultural features, such as scenic spots and
watercourses, shall be preserved insofar as possible. (1985 Code § 10-3-5)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General Requirements
11-4-2: Street Improvements
11-4-3: Sidewalks
11-4-4: Landscaping
11-4-5: Public Utilities
11-4-6: Easements
11-4-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The plan commission shall have the power to require one or more of the
following improvements depending upon the nature and scope of the subdivision.
Particular attention shall be given to means for disposition of stormwater and
to the desirability of curb and gutter or other provision to prevent breakdown
of pavement edges. The design, layout and carrying capacities of stormwater,
sanitary sewer and water facilities shall recognize the future requirements of
adjacent undeveloped areas as to the following features:
Crosswalks.
Curb and gutter.
Driveways.
Public utilities, underground.
Sanitary sewage facilities.
Sidewalks.
Stormwater drainage facilities.
Street and alley grading and surfacing.
Street signs.
Streetlights.
Survey monuments.
Topsoil where appropriate.
Water mains and hydrants. (1985 Code § 10-4-1)
11-4-2: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider shall, at his own expense, improve all streets with a minimum of
nine inches (9") and a bituminous concrete wearing surface of not less than two
inches (2") in thickness; provided, however, that the village board may impose
more stringent specifications for industrial or commercial streets or through
streets within or adjoining a subdivision as a condition precedent to accepting
any subdivision plat. The minimum specifications shall conform to "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" prepared by the Illinois
department of transportation. (1985 Code § 10-4-2; amd. 2016 Code)
11-4-3: SIDEWALKS:
Any sidewalk planned, constructed or repaired after the effective date hereof
shall be ramped anywhere that the sidewalk planned, under construction or
repair meets a street, alley, parking lot or other interruption, to ensure
accessibility for persons with disabilities in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 92-22, 6-8-1992; amd. 2016 Code)
11-4-4: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Reserve Strips: There shall be no reservation of strips of land that
prevent or limit access to land dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public
use.
   B.   Buffer Planting Strips And Fences: Where a residential subdivision
adjoins a railroad right of way, a waterway, an industrial area, a business
area or other land use which would have a depreciating effect on the
residential use of the property, a buffer planting strip ten feet (10') to
fifteen feet (15') in width and suitably planted to form a screen, or a fence,
may be required by the plan commission.
   C.   Trees: Valuable large trees shall be preserved whenever possible. Where
planting strips are provided with trees, such trees shall not be of a low bushy
species that might obstruct vision. Trees or shrubs with a forty foot (40')
radius from intersecting property lines at a street intersection shall not have
branches closer than eight feet (8') to the ground. (1985 Code § 10-4-3)
11-4-5: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   All aboveground utilities shall be placed on rear or side property
lines, except in those cases where said utilities are already in place.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, all utility
distribution lines for telephone and electric service to be installed shall be
placed underground within easements or dedicated public ways. The installation
of such facilities shall be made in compliance with applicable orders, rules
and regulations of the Illinois commerce commission now or hereafter in effect,
and the owner or subdivider of any property to be served from such underground
installations shall be responsible for compliance with the rules and
regulations now and hereafter in effect and filed with said commission pursuant
to the Illinois public utilities act 1 , of any public liability whose services
will be required with respect to the provision of such underground facilities.
   C.   Utility lines for telephone and electric service may be carried in the
subdivision on overhead poles in the following locations:
      1.   On rights of way which are utility opened and on street crossings
intersecting such rights of way;
      2.   At locations where overhead lines exist, including service drops
carrying house voltage; and
      3.   In industrial or commercial areas. (1985 Code § 10-4-4)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
11-4-6: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, an appropriate
easement shall be provided for the watercourse in either an open cut or in an
underground conduit, depending upon the density of development.
   B.   Where water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, gas mains, telephone
lines, power lines or other utilities are located on or adjacent to property
lines, adequate easements, together with right of ingress or egress thereto and
therefrom, shall be provided and platted. Said easement shall provide that no
structure, building or pavement except a division fence, where not prohibited
under this code, shall be placed on said easement and the plat of subdivision
shall so state.
   C.   Easements shall not be less than ten feet (10') in width and shall be
centered upon the centerline of the utility. Where more than one utility is to
occupy the easement, the easement shall be of such width as to extend five feet
(5') at each side beyond the centerline of the outermost utilities. Additional
width shall be provided where necessary to accommodate utility pole bracing.
The plan commission may require evidence of approval of easement width by the
public utility company.
   D.   Where side lot easements occur adjacent to a driveway, there shall not
be less than ten feet (10') clearance between the easement line and the extreme
projection of the building structure. (1985 Code § 10-4-5)
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4A-1: Compliance With Village Standards
11-4A-2: Construction Plans; Procedure
11-4A-3: Performance Of Work
11-4A-4: Inspections
11-4A-5: Maintenance Of Improvements
11-4A-6: Guarantee Of Completion And Maintenance
11-4A-7: Improvement Acceptance
11-4A-8: Fees
11-4A-9: Protection And Repair Of Existing Improvements
11-4A-1: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE STANDARDS:
   A.   All improvements shall be in accordance with village standards and
requirements as given in this code and other ordinances and regulations in
effect at the time of submission of the final plat.
   B.   None of the provisions of these regulations pertaining to permission,
surety, fees, acceptances and approval shall be construed as exempting
subdividers, general contractors, sidewalk contractors, cement contractors,
building contractors, plumbing contractors or plumbers, sewer contractors,
sewer builders, drain layers, electrical contractors, electricians or any other
contractor or craftsman from any other ordinance or regulation of the village
with respect to licenses, fees, surety, inspection or other control. (1985 Code
§ 10-4A-1)
11-4A-2: CONSTRUCTION PLANS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Working Drawings; Specifications:
      1.   Before considering the approval of the final plat and for
subdivision, the board shall require that complete working drawings and
specifications be submitted for those improvements requested at the time of
conditional approval of the preliminary layout.
      2.   The developer shall have the option of having working drawings and
specifications for improvements prepared by a registered professional engineer
retained by the developer or of having such drawings and specifications
prepared by the village. The engineer retained by the developer shall be other
than an engineer on the village payroll or retained by the village as village
engineer.
      3.   Under either option, all working drawings, specifications and cost
estimates shall be checked by the village engineer or by a consulting firm duly
retained by the village. The developer shall reimburse the village for
preparation and for checking of working drawings, specifications and cost
estimates in accordance with section
11-4A-8 of this article.
      4.   Working drawings and specifications shall be in strict accordance
with village standards and requirements and shall be subject to written
approval by the building inspector.
   B.   Approval:
      1.   Village Board Of Trustees: Approval of the board of trustees shall
be secured before commencement of construction of any improvement. Approval of
the final plat by the board shall constitute permission to proceed with
construction, providing the plat is accepted for recording by the county
recorder. If the developer elects, as provided in this article, to construct an
improvement prior to approval of the final plat, the board may extend
permission to proceed upon recommendation of the ZBA, together with
certification by the building inspector that working drawings and
specifications have been prepared and that engineering fees have been paid and
that inspection bond has been posted.
      2.   County And State Officers: The developer shall also secure any
permission required by law of the state and county officials, and permission
extended by the board shall not relieve the developer of responsibility to
secure state and county approval. If such permission is required, written
permission is to be filed with the building inspector. (1985 Code § 10-4A-2)
11-4A-3: PERFORMANCE OF WORK:
The developer shall file with the building inspector a list of all contractors
and subcontractors who are to participate in construction of public
improvements. Such contractors and subcontractors shall be subject to the
licensing provisions of this code and village ordinances and shall be subject
to disqualification by reason of faulty performance upon past construction work
done in the village. (1985 Code § 10-4A-3)
11-4A-4: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority: All improvements shall be subject to inspection by duly
authorized and qualified village inspectors both during the course of
construction and after construction is complete. The inspector shall have
authority over materials of construction, methods of construction and
workmanship to ensure compliance with working drawings and specifications. The
contractor shall provide for reasonable tests and proof of quality of materials
as requested by the inspector. Upon due cause, the inspector may require that
work be suspended and due cause shall include weather conditions, questionable
materials of construction, method of construction, workmanship or nonadherence
to specifications and drawings.
   B.   Reports: The inspector shall prepare and submit to the building
inspector each day, a report stating progress of work and giving his findings
as to quality and quantity of materials used and quality of methods and
workmanship. He shall, in particular, call attention to any circumstances that
entail departures from working drawings and specifications such as unforeseen
difficulties of drainage, groundwater, poor subsoil, unstable fill material,
unconventional or faulty practices of contractors or other circumstances.
Whenever, in his opinion, such departures are likely to cause either a lower
ultimate standard of performance or a higher construction cost than could
reasonably be anticipated, he shall immediately notify the building inspector.
When an improvement has been completed, he shall prepare a summary report.
   C.   Approval Specifications: Approval by the inspector or absence of
inspection shall in no way relieve the developer of full responsibility for
adherence by his contractors to specifications and working drawings nor for
high standards of materials, methods and workmanship. Approval by the inspector
shall not be deemed acceptance of the improvement by the village. Acceptance
shall be only by action of the board of trustees, and acceptance shall be
contingent upon a favorable inspection report signed by the building inspector
and village engineer.
   D.   Request For Inspection: It shall be the responsibility of the developer
or his contractor to notify the building inspector when work is to be started
and to request assignment of an inspector. The initial notification that a
particular improvement is to be started shall be in writing and shall reach the
building inspector in advance of the date that inspection is to begin. The
notice shall be accompanied by an inspection bond in accordance with subsection
11-4A-8E of this article. (1985 Code § 10-4A-4)
11-4A-5: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
As further assurance of serviceable construction and to provide for repair of
damage resulting from subsequent construction operations, the developer shall
be responsible for all maintenance of an improvement for a period of not less
than fifteen (15) months following completion of construction of that
improvement; provided, in addition, that the developer shall be responsible for
all maintenance of roadways, curb and gutter, sidewalk, parkway strips and
extension boxes and hydrants of water facilities until all construction work
has been completed upon other improvements, dwellings, buildings, fill and
landscaping adjacent to the improvement under consideration. The guarantee of
completion and maintenance shall recognize the possibility of maintenance
costs, and the terms of the guarantee shall provide for reimbursement to the
village for any maintenance expenses incurred by the village in performing
maintenance work after failure of the subdivider to perform such work upon due
notice. An improvement shall not be accepted by the village sooner than fifteen
(15) months after completion of construction nor before all construction work
has been completed upon adjacent improvements, dwellings, buildings, fill and
landscaping nor until all maintenance work is complete. (1985 Code § 10-4A-5)
11-4A-6: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE:
The ZBA shall not consider approval of the final plat unless and until the
developer has guaranteed the completion of all required improvements within a
reasonable period and in compliance with working drawings and specifications
and has guaranteed to maintain said improvements until they are accepted by the
village. This guarantee shall be by one or a combination of one or more of
three (3) methods. Only one method shall be applied to one specific
improvement:
   A.   Performance Bond: The developer may post a performance bond prepared in
a form approved by the village attorney and underwritten by a surety company
listed as approved by the board. The amount of the bond shall be not less than
one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the final estimate of cost of the
improvements as estimated by the village engineer. There shall be no reduction
in the amount of that portion of the bond applying to a particular improvement
unless and until that improvement is complete and accepted or approved by the
board. The subgrade, base course and surface course of a street, alley or
parking area shall be considered as a single improvement from the standpoint of
acceptance.
   B.   Cash Deposits: The developer may deposit a cash bond with the village
in accordance with a specific escrow agreement approved by the village attorney
and building inspector in an amount of not less than one hundred twenty five
percent (125%) of the final estimate of the cost of the improvements as
estimated by the village engineer. The deposit shall be held in a special
account by the village, and the agreement may provide for partial payouts as
work progresses in amounts recommended by the village engineer and approved by
the building inspector as corresponding to the original estimate of unit costs.
Partial payouts shall be contingent upon favorable inspection reports, and the
sum of partial payouts for a single improvement shall not exceed eighty five
percent (85%) of the original deposit for the improvement until and unless the
improvement is complete and accepted or approved by the board. The subgrade,
base course and surface course of a street, alley or parking area shall be
considered a single improvement from the standpoint of acceptance.
   C.   Improvements Completed Prior To Final Plat Approval: Upon specific
permission of the board, as recommended by the ZBA, the subdivider may elect to
complete one or more improvements prior to approval of the final plat. Where
the subdivider elects to guarantee completion of an improvement by this method,
approval of the final plat shall be contingent upon certification by the
building inspector and village engineer that the improvement has been completed
in accordance with drawings and specifications; that the inspection reports are
favorable; and that guarantee has been provided to cover the cost of
maintenance of the improvement in accordance with section 11-4A-5 of this
article. (1985 Code § 10-4A-6)
11-4A-7: IMPROVEMENT ACCEPTANCE:
Acceptance of an improvement for the village shall be only by resolution of the
board of trustees upon recommendation of the building inspector and village
engineer. Recommendation shall be contingent upon:
   A.   Fulfillment of the requirements of section
11-4A-5 of this article.
   B.   An opinion by the village attorney that satisfactory and proper
conveyances and dedications have been made by the subdivider to the village.
   C.   Improvements being complete and in good repair in accordance with
village standards and requirements.
   D.   Inspection reports indicating compliance with working drawings and
specifications.
   E.   A single improvement shall not be accepted in part; it shall be
complete throughout the subdivision as indicated in the final plat and working
drawings. The subgrade, base course and surface course of a street, alley or
parking area shall be considered as a single improvement.
   F.   Acceptance of an improvement shall constitute release of the applicable
portion of the performance bond or of the applicable portion of the balance of
cash deposit. (1985 Code § 10-4A-7)
11-4A-8: FEES:
To defray the engineering and inspection expenses incurred by the village in
preparation or checking of preliminary and final cost estimates, working
drawings, and specifications, in checking the final plat (prepared by others),
and in executing inspection responsibilities, the subdivider shall be required
to reimburse the village as follows. These are separate and distinct charges
from the fee paid at the time of submission of the preliminary layout: (1985
Code § 10-4A-8)
   A.   Bond For Estimate Of Construction Costs: If the subdivider elects to
have working drawings and specifications prepared by the village, he shall make
a request for preparation of a preliminary estimate of construction costs for
improvements. This request shall be in writing to the building inspector and
shall be accompanied by a certified check in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) to be receipted for by the village comptroller. This bond is to
guarantee the expenses of preparation of the preliminary estimate by the
village engineer.
   B.   Engineering Fee: When notified of the amount of the preliminary
estimate of construction costs, the subdivider shall make a further written
request to the building inspector for preparation by the village engineer of a
final estimate of construction costs, working drawings and specifications to be
employed in the construction and inspection of the improvements. In making this
request, the subdivider shall pay to the village comptroller an engineering fee
equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the engineer's quoted charge to the
village as based upon the practices recommended in the "Manual Of Professional
Practice For Civil Engineers" published by the American Society Of Civil
Engineers.
   C.   Refund Of Bond: Upon payment of the engineering fee, the five hundred
dollar ($500.00) bond shall be refunded. The five hundred dollar ($500.00) bond
shall be forfeited if the engineering fee is not paid within twelve (12) months
after notification of the amount of the preliminary estimate of construction
costs, and a new bond shall be posted with a new request for preliminary
estimate. There shall be no refund of the engineering fee if the project is
abandoned or if approval of the final plat is denied. Any revision of working
drawings, for whatever reason, shall be subject to an additional engineering
fee, paid in advance, in an amount quoted by the engineer.
   D.   Checking Drawings And Specifications: If the subdivider elects to have
working drawings, specifications and cost estimates for improvements prepared
by an engineer retained by himself, he shall apply in writing to the building
inspector, making a request that such drawings, specifications and estimates be
checked by the village engineer. The application shall be accompanied by two
(2) sets of construction prints, specifications and estimates. The building
inspector shall inform the subdivider of the amount of the charge for this
service, and the charge shall be based upon practices recommended by the
"Manual Of Professional Practice For Civil Engineers". Checking shall proceed
after the subdivider has paid this fee to the village comptroller. Additional
fees shall be paid for rechecking of drawings, specifications and estimates
arising from revisions made by or required of the subdivider. There shall be no
refund of engineering fees if the project is abandoned for any reason
whatsoever. The engineering fee is intended to include preparation or checking
of preliminary and final cost estimates, working drawings, specifications and
staking, but it is not intended to include inspection.
   E.   Inspection Bond:
      1.   Before grading or construction of improvements is started, the
subdivider or his contractor shall post with the village comptroller a cash
inspection bond in an amount agreed upon between the village engineer and the
subdivider or contractor as being sufficient to provide for inspection charges
at the current per diem rates. From this bond shall be deducted each day the
inspection expense incurred by the village at the rates set forth below. Any
excess of the bond over total inspection charges will be refunded to the
depositor and any overdraft on the bond shall be provided for immediately by
the contractor to ensure continuity of inspection. (1985 Code § 10-4A-8; amd.
2016 Code)
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider or contractor to
notify the building inspector in advance as to the dates that construction work
will commence and be completed for purposes of determining the number of days
of inspection charge. In event of dispute, only notification in writing shall
be considered as proof of notice.
      3.   Per diem inspection rates shall be equal to one hundred percent
(100%) of the engineer's quoted charge to the village. If inspection is
performed by an inspector on the village payroll, the charge shall be one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the regular salary paid to the inspector,
computed on an hourly basis. There shall be not less than a four (4) hour
charge for time spent in any one day. For time spent outside of the regular
working hours of the inspector, the hourly charge shall be two hundred fifty
percent (250%) of the regular salary paid to the inspector, computed on an
hourly basis. (1985 Code § 10-4A-8)
11-4A-9: PROTECTION AND REPAIR OF EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider and his contractors and suppliers shall be responsible that
existing improvements and the property of the village are not damaged or
rendered less useful or unsightly by the operations of the subdividers and his
contractors or suppliers. This provision is intended to include damage or
nuisance with respect to the land, improvements or landscaping of the village;
damage to existing streets, sidewalks, curb and gutter, or parkways by passage
thereover of equipment or trucks or by excavation for any purpose; the spillage
or tracking of earth, sand or rock onto existing streets, sidewalks, curb and
gutter, or parkways; the washing by stormwater of earth or sand onto streets,
sidewalks, curb and gutter, or parkways or into catch basins; and damage to
water mains, sanitary sewers, culverts or storm sewers. To reduce or localize
the possibility of damage to streets by heavy trucking, the building inspector
shall instruct the subdivider as to the streets to be used for access to the
subdivision by equipment and trucks, and the subdivider shall be responsible
for enforcement of this instruction upon his contractors and their suppliers.
The subdivider shall make provisions to prevent washing of earth or sand onto
sidewalks, streets, and curb and gutter and into catch basins by stormwater.
Where deemed advisable, the building inspector shall have the power to require,
either prior to commencement of construction or after construction is in
process, that the subdivider post a surety to guarantee repair of damages or
abatement of nuisance. Where need for surety becomes apparent after
construction is in process, the building inspector shall have the power to
order construction discontinued until surety has been posted. Expenses incurred
by the village in repairing damages and cleaning streets, catch basins and
sewers shall be deducted from the surety. (1985 Code § 10-4A-9)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FLOOD CONTROL PROVISIONS;
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statute Authority; Purpose
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: General Administration And Enforcement Provisions
12-1-4: Duties Of Building Inspector
12-1-5: Base Flood Elevation
12-1-6: Variances
12-1-7: Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-8: Penalties
12-1-9: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-1-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
This title is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, and 5/
11-31-2. The purpose of this title is to maintain the village's eligibility in
the national flood insurance program; to minimize potential losses due to
periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare;
and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve economic
and natural values and provide for the wise utilization of water and related
land resources. This title is adopted in order to accomplish the following
specific purposes:
   A.   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g,
rivers, lakes and streams act;
   B.   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   C.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   D.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   E.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program;
   G.   To comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 CFR 59 - 79, as amended;
   H.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources; and
   I.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate floodwater and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following definitions are adopted:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A nonhabitable structure which is on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure.
   ACT: An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams
of the state of Illinois, 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
   APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
   APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible
and will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed
are as specified in section
12-3-3 of this title.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in section
12-1-5 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT: That portion of the building having its floor subgrade below
ground level on all sides.
   BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes,
prefabricated buildings, and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
   CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface water or groundwater flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris, or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form
of channel modification involving a significant change in the channel cross
section and typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this title, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as built plans.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that
FEMA will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood
boundaries or floodway as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map, once the as built plans are submitted and approved.
   CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that
passes through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water
surface elevation.
   CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare
of the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk. Examples of critical facilities where flood
protection should be required include: emergency services facilities (such as
fire and police stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care
facilities, major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone
switching stations or electrical transformers), and hazardous materials storage
facilities (chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances). Examples
of critical facilities where flood protection is recommended include: sewage
treatment plants, water treatment plants, and pumping stations.
   DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Dams may also include weirs, restrictive
culverts or impoundment structures. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: A. The channel, including on stream lakes, and that
portion of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse, generally
depicted on the FEMA FIRM map, which is needed to store and convey the existing
100-year frequency flood discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in
stage due to the loss of flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten
percent (10%) increase in velocities.
   B.   The floodways are designated on the countywide flood insurance rate map
of Cook County prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008. When two (2)
floodway maps exist for a waterway, the more restrictive floodway limit shall
prevail.
   C.   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village that may be annexed
into the village are designated for on the countywide flood insurance rate map
prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008.
   D.   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
   DEVELOPMENT: A. Any manmade change to real estate, including:
      1. Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building.
      2. Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or
recreational vehicle is on site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, it
must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      3. Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads and
bridges, or similar projects.
      4. Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
      5. Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
      6. Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials; and
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
      7. Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of floodwater or surface water, including extensive vegetation
removal.
      8. Substantial improvement of an existing building.
   B.   Development does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings
and facilities such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no
increase in elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
   EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or
wave action.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this title per
Illinois Compiled Statutes including state, federal or local units of
government.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59 -
79, as amended.
   FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within the village. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-
year frequency floods, plus two feet (2') of freeboard at any given location in
the SFHA.
   FLOODPLAIN: A. That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground
surface elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
   B.   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the village
that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
The SFHAs of the village are generally identified as such on panel numbers
469J, 486J, 487J, 488J, 489J, 582J, and 601J of the countywide flood insurance
rate map of the village prepared by the federal emergency management agency and
dated August 19, 2008.
   C.   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into
the village are generally identified as such on panel numbers 469J, 486J, 487J,
488J, 489J, 582J, and 601J of the countywide flood insurance rate map prepared
for Cook County by the federal emergency management agency and dated August 19,
2008.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
   FLOODWAY: See definition of Designated Floodway.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analyses which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
   IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources, office of water
resources.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a
specific structure is not in a 100-year floodplain; amends the FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, floodplains or floodways as shown on an effective
FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements of this title.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational
vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative
effects which floodplain development activities might have on the public
health, safety and welfare. Examples of mitigation include: excavation of
compensatory storage, soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel
restoration. Mitigation may also include those activities taken to reduce a
structure's susceptibility to flooding.
   NAVD 88: National American vertical datum of 1988. NAVD 88 supersedes the
national geodetic vertical datum of 1929 (NGVD).
   NATURAL: When used in reference to channels, means those channels formed by
the existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is
reestablished. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date hereof, and includes any subsequent improvements
to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which
the presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
   PUBLIC BODIES OF WATER: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which, in their natural condition, were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within or upon the
borders of the state of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
   PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures, including a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing and
proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall preclude
the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in part, of a
flood control project by persons or parties who are not public agencies.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGIONAL PERMITS: Regional permits are offered for preapproved projects
which are considered minor projects that are permissible per IDNR/OWR part
3708, "Rules For Northeastern Illinois Regulatory Floodways". A complete
listing of the terms and conditions for specific project types can be obtained
from the IDNR/OWR website.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of
Illinois, under the Illinois land surveyors act 1 .
   REGISTERED OR LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the
state of Illinois, under the Illinois professional engineering practice act 2 .
   REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not
result in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes
to the dimensions of a structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five
percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damages occurred.
   RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores stormwater runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of
stormwater runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a
flood or storm.
   RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified
channel. This term does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes,
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soils, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): See definition of Floodplain.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
   STATEWIDE PERMITS: Statewide permits are offered for preapproved projects
that are considered minor projects which are permissible per the IDNR/OWR part
3700 rules. A complete listing of the statewide permits and permit requirements
can be obtained from the IDNR/OWR website.
   STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during the life of the building equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes repetitive
loss buildings. See definition of Repetitive Loss.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure taking place during the life of the building in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is
started.
   B.   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building. This term includes structures which have incurred
repetitive loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual work done.
   C.   The term does not, however, include either:
      1. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2. Any alteration of a historic structure listed on the national register
of historic places or the Illinois register of historic places; provided, that
the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from
a narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this title. A structure or other development without the
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
(Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
12-1-3: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   The building inspector shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the
duties listed in section
12-1-4 of this chapter.
   B.   To fulfill those duties, the building inspector should first use the
criteria listed in section
12-1-5 of this chapter to determine whether the development site is located
within a floodplain.
   C.   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a floodplain,
the building inspector must determine whether the development site is within a
flood fringe, a designated floodway, or within an SFHA or floodplain for which
no floodway has been identified.
      1.   If the site is within a flood fringe, the building inspector shall
require that the minimum requirements of chapter 2 of this title be met.
      2.   If the site is within a floodway, the building inspector shall
require that the minimum requirements of chapter 3 of this title be met.
      3.   If the site is located within an SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the building inspector shall
require that the minimum requirements of chapter 4 of this title be met.
   D.   In addition, the general requirements of chapter 5 of this title shall
be met for all developments meeting the requirements of chapter 2, 3 or 4 of
this title.
   E.   The building inspector shall assure that all subdivision proposals
shall meet the requirements of chapter 6 of this title.
   F.   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the building inspector
shall review the requirements of section
12-1-6 of this chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the building
inspector shall complete all notification requirements.
   G.   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this title, the building inspector may take any and all actions as outlined in
section
12-1-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-1-4: DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Determining Floodplain Designation:
      1.   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
      2.   If they are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway or
flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been
conducted and which drains more than one square mile.
      3.   Check whether the development is potentially within an extended SFHA
(with a drainage area less than 1 square mile), indicating that the development
would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance, or inundation which
would be the basis for the applicant being required to delineate the floodplain
and floodway and be subject to the remaining provisions of this title.
   B.   Professional Engineer Review:
      1.   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a licensed professional engineer
under the employ or contract of the village for review to ensure that the
development meets chapter 3 or 4 of this title.
      2.   In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of chapter 3 of this title.
   C.   Dam Safety Requirements:
      1.   Dams are classified as to their size and their hazard/damage
potential in the event of failure.
      2.   The construction or major modification of all class I (high hazard)
and class II (moderate hazard) dams require an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit.
      3.   Some class III (low hazard) dams require an IDNR/OWR dam safety
permit, depending on the drainage area to the dam, the height of the dam and
the impounding capacity behind the dam. Most off channel detention basins that
have an embankment are nonjurisdictional class III dam. It is not required that
IDNR/OWR "sign off" on all nonjurisdictional class III dams.
      4.   A consulting engineer with dam safety knowledge can estimate a
hazard classification and determine if an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit is
required.
      5.   A permit application submittal must be made to IDNR/OWR for the
construction or major modification jurisdictional dams.
      6.   Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or
impoundment structures.
   D.   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure any and all required federal, state
and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   E.   Plan Review And Permit Issuance:
      1.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this title; and
      2.   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this title and other regulations of the village when the
development meets the conditions of this title.
   F.   Inspection Review:
      1.   Inspect all development projects before, during and after
construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this title; and
      2.   Schedule, on an annual basis, an inspection of the floodplain and
document the results of the inspection.
   G.   Damage Determinations: Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after a flood to determine substantially damaged
structures which must comply with subsection
12-5-4C of this title.
   H.   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain permit files
including:
      1.   An elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building subject
to chapter 5 of this title; and/or
      2.   The elevation to which a nonresidential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to
chapter 5 of this title.
   I.   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA, and designated floodway maps,
copies of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation,
conditional letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map
amendment and as built elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation
certificates for all buildings constructed subject to this title.
   J.   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by IDNR/OWR for all development projects subject to chapters 3 and 4 of this
title, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to the village.
However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the village and
shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this title, as per Illinois
Compiled Statutes;
      2.   IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in
section
 12-1-2 of this chapter and all other state, federal or local unit of
government projects, including projects of the village and county, except for
those projects meeting the requirements of subsection
12-3-3A of this title;
      3.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection
12-3-3C4 of this title;
      4.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection
12-3-3C5 of this title;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections
12-3-3C1, C2 and C8 of this title;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within, under, or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the mapped floodway or published flood profiles.
   K.   Cooperation With Other Agencies:
      1.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve
the administration of this title;
      2.   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map within six (6) months whenever a modification of the floodplain
may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to the floodplain
map;
      3.   Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance program;
and
      4.   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this title.
   L.   Promulgate Rules And Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as
necessary to administer and enforce the provisions of this title, subject
however to the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any changes to this
title. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-1-5: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
   A.   This title's protection standard is based on the flood insurance study
for the village. If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood
elevation is not available for a particular site, then the protection standard
shall be according to the best existing data available from federal, state or
other sources. When a party disagrees with the best available data, he shall
submit a detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with better
data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for review and consideration prior to
any development of the site.
   B.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
any river, creek, or stream shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the flood insurance study of Cook County prepared by FEMA dated
August 19, 2008, and such amendments to such study and maps as may be prepared
from time to time.
   C.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of village or that may be annexed into the village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of Cook
County prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments or
revisions to such study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
   D.   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an AH zone or AO zone shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Cook County.
   E.   1. The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an A zone on the countywide flood insurance rate
map of Cook County shall be according to the best existing data available from
federal, state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering
study must be financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
      2.   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be
determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, HEC-RAS, or a dynamic model
such as HIP.
      3.   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-HMS, HEC-1, TR-20, or HIP, or by techniques
presented in various publications prepared by the United States geological
survey for estimating peak flood discharges.
      4.   For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record, plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study.
      5.   For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than 1
square mile) which has been identified by the building inspector pursuant to
subsection
12-1-4A3 of this chapter, the base flood elevation shall be determined by the
applicant utilizing a method as approved in this subsection E. (Ord. 08-07, 6-
9-2008)
12-1-6: VARIANCES:
   A.   Variances Prohibited In Designated Floodways: No variances shall be
granted to any development located in a "designated floodway", as defined in
section
12-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Variance: Whenever the standards of this title place
undue hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to
the village board of trustees for a variance. The building inspector shall
review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the village board of trustees. The village may attach such
conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
flood protection intent of this title.
   C.   Standards For Variance Request: No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA; and
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted; and
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary; and
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, and
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance; and
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing, or repairs to streambeds and stream banks, roads, utilities, or other
public facilities; and
      6.   The provisions of sections
 12-2-3 and
12-4-3 of this title shall still be met; and
      7.   The activity is not in a designated floodway; and
      8.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      9.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses; and
      10.   All other required state and federal permits or waivers have been
obtained.
   D.   Variances From Chapter 5 Of This Title: The building inspector shall
notify an applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of chapter
5 of this title that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage; and
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant will acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   E.   Historic Landmarks: Variances requested in connection with restoration
of a historic site or "historic structure" as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter, "historic structure" may be granted using criteria more
permissive than the requirements of subsections C and D of this section,
subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-1-7: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that development, either inside or outside of the SFHA, will be free from
flooding or damage. This title does not create liability on the part of the
village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this title or any administrative decision made lawfully
hereunder. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-1-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   If the owner fails, after ten (10) days' notice, to correct the
violation:
      1.   The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this title or make such other order as
the court may impose.
      2.   Any person who violates this title shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   B.   The building inspector shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   C.   The building inspector is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing,
shall indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop
work order constitutes a suspension of the permit. No site development permit
shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a hearing is held by the
village board of trustees. Written notice of such hearing shall be served on
the permittee and shall state: 1) the grounds for complaint or reasons for
suspension or revocation; and 2) the time and place of the hearing. At such
hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence on
his/her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the village board of trustees
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   D.   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-1-9: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this title and other
ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. This title is
intended to repeal the original ordinance or resolution which was adopted to
meet the national flood insurance program regulations, but is not intended to
repeal the resolution which the village passed in order to establish initial
eligibility for the program. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
CHAPTER 2
FLOOD FRINGE AREAS
SECTION:
12-2-1: General Requirements
12-2-2: Development Permit
12-2-3: Preventing Increased Damages
12-2-4: Lowest Floor Below Base Flood Elevation
12-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of
this title. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this chapter, along with the requirements of
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-2-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not
exempted by law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first
obtaining a development permit from the building inspector.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the building inspector.
      2.   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn
to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations, using the North American vertical datum of 1988, and
all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling; and the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings.
      3.   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans, and the development will be subject to the requirements of chapter 5 of
this title.
   C.   Review Of Application:
      1.   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the building
inspector shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation.
      2.   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher than
the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map and which has
not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
without a permit as required by this section is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this title. Conversely, any development
located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically
connected, but shown on the current flood insurance rate map, is subject to the
provisions of this title.
      3.   The building inspector shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification.
   D.   Soil Erosion And Sediment Control Plan: A soil erosion and sediment
control plan for disturbed areas shall be submitted. This plan shall include a
description of the sequence of grading activities and the temporary sediment
and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate their effects. This
plan shall also include a description of final stabilization and revegetation
measures, and the identification of a responsible party to ensure
postconstruction maintenance.
   E.   Other Required Permits: The building inspector shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits, approvals or waivers that may be required for this type of activity.
The building inspector shall not issue a permit unless all other federal,
state, and local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-2-3: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES:
No development in the flood fringe shall create a threat to public health and
safety.
   A.   Use Of Fill: If fill is being used to elevate the site above the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit
sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the
purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
   B.   Compensatory Storage:
      1.   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
      2.   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.0 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure.
      3.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
      4.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
      5.   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly
to the watercourse. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-2-4: LOWEST FLOOR BELOW BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
A person who has obtained a letter of map revision based on fill that removes a
site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use of fill to elevate
the site above the BFE may apply for a permit from the village to construct the
lowest floor of a residential building below the BFE in the flood fringe. The
building inspector shall not issue such a permit unless the applicant has
complied with all the following criteria:
   A.   Compensatory storage shall be provided per subsection
12-2-3B of this chapter.
   B.   The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e., window
wells, accessways) shall be at or above the flood protection elevation (FPE).
   C.   The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above the
FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet (10') beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the building inspector may waive the ten foot (10') minimum setback if an
Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that an alternative method to
protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic pressures has been met. The
certifications shall be in the form of a detailed soils and structural design
analysis, which shall be submitted to the building inspector for review. The
building inspector may require such additional documentation as necessary to
prove that the proposed shorter setback distance will keep the structure
reasonably safe. In no case shall the setback distance be less than four feet
(4').
   D.   The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a distance
of twenty feet (20') from the structure, shall be above the BFE. However, if
site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained, the building
inspector may waive the twenty foot (20') minimum setback distance if an
Illinois licensed professional engineer certifies that an alternative method to
protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic pressures has been met. A
detailed soils analysis and structural design proving that a shorter setback
distance will keep the structure reasonably safe from flooding shall be
submitted to the village for review. In no case shall the setback distance be
less than four feet (4').
   E.   The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets all
requirements of this subsection and is at least five feet (5') thick under the
basement floor slab. Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted to require
the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of an LOMR-F, if
such fill consists of material, including soils of similar classification and
degree permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC or ML according to
ASTM standard D-2487, "Classification Of Soils For Engineering Purposes".
   F.   The fill material must be homogeneous and isotropic. That is, the soil
must be all of one material, and the engineering priorities must be in the same
direction. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
   G.   All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by an Illinois licensed professional engineer, as warranted by the
site conditions. The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more
than five feet (5') below the BFE. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
   H.   There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab, and
minimum of one-fourth (1/4) horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply
shall be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four (4)
times the estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away
from the building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the
floor under the effect of the seepage pressure.
   I.   The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
   J.   All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
   K.   If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set forth in
this section, the building inspector may allow the construction of a basement
below the BFE only if the applicant demonstrates that the proposed fill and
structure meet the guidelines and requirements set forth in FEMA technical
bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably safe from flooding. In order to demonstrate
that the proposed structure is reasonably safe from flooding, the applicant
shall submit a detailed engineering analysis of the proposed fill and
foundation wall. The engineered basement study shall be completed in accordance
with the latest edition of FEMA technical bulletin 10-01, with the analysis of
the fill being prepared by an Illinois licensed professional engineer.
   L.   In order to provide the required compensatory storage on site, in no
case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed eighteen inches (18"), as measured from the previously existing natural
grade. The rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation,
if necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to
drain the compensatory storage area will not be permitted. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-
2008)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS
SECTION:
12-3-1: General Requirements
12-3-2: Development Permit
12-3-3: Preventing Increased Damages; Appropriate Uses
12-3-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
This chapter applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a designated floodway. The designated floodway
for rivers or streams with identified floodway shall be as delineated on the
countywide flood insurance rate map of Cook County and referenced in section
12-1-2 of this title. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which
meet the criteria in this chapter. All floodway modifications shall be the
minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development
shall also meet the requirements of chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-
2008)
12-3-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not
exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the building inspector and IDNR/OWR.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
made on a form provided by the building inspector. The application shall
include the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant;
      2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
      3.   Name of the stream or body of water affected;
      4.   Description of the proposed activity;
      5.   Statement of purpose of the proposed activity;
      6.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
      7.   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
      8.   Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
      9.   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other authorized
officer shall sign the application form;
      10.   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form;
      11.   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign the
name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit shall
be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust by
name and address and defining the respective interests therein;
      12.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include, as
a minimum:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations, using the North American vertical datum of 1988,
adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements,
location of any channels and any existing or future access roads, distance
between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is near a commercially navigable body of water), designated
floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and dimensions of any proposed
channel modifications, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow,
and a graphic or numerical scale;
         c.   Cross section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
         d.   A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance;
         e.   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location;
      13.   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development;
      14.   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of section
12-3-3 of this chapter;
      15.   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA;
      16.   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings of
the site, drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and existing ground
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed excavation or
filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a licensed professional
engineer, licensed architect or licensed land surveyor; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevation of
the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the
requirements of chapter 5 of this title;
      17.   If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
         a.   A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
         b.   A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations or
methods (see subsection
12-3-3C9 of this chapter) to accomplish the purpose of the proposed work;
         c.   An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection
12-3-3C9 of this chapter would have on the physical and biological conditions
of the body of water affected; and
         d.   An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
   C.   Other Required Permits: The building inspector shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits and approvals that may be required for this type of activity. The
building inspector shall not issue the development permit unless all required
federal and state permits have been obtained.
   D.   Review And Approval Of Applications: A licensed professional engineer,
under the employ or contract of the village, shall review and approve
applications reviewed under this section. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-3-3: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES; APPROPRIATE USES:
   A.   Appropriate Uses Enumerated: The only developments in a floodway which
will be allowed are appropriate uses, which will not cause a rise in the base
flood elevation, and which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging
increase in flood heights or velocity, or be a threat to public health, safety
and welfare, or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the
floodway or channel, or permanently impair existing water quality or aquatic
habitat. Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation
methods as called for in this title. Only those appropriate uses listed in 17
Illinois administrative code part 3708 will be allowed. The approved
appropriate uses are as follows:
      1.   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife.
      2.   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring access
to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities, and
facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses.
      3.   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls.
      4.   Underground and overhead utilities.
      5.   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems,
including any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed from any 1
direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including open
air pavilions and toilet facilities (4 stall maximum) that will not block flood
flows nor reduce floodway storage.
      6.   Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory
structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage.
      7.   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto.
      8.   Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
         a.   The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event will
not exceed one foot (1.0'); or
         b.   The applicant of a short term recreational use facility parking
lot formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events and
accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all overbank
flooding events.
      9.   Designated floodway regarding, without fill, to create a positive
nonerosive slope toward a watercourse.
      10.   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure.
      11.   The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged building;
provided, that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the building
was damaged to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before the
damage occurred, the building will be protected from flooding to the flood
protection elevation.
      12.   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase the
enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows including, but not limited to,
fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios, and second story additions. If the
building is improved to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before
the modification occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will
be protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation.
   B.   Nonappropriate Uses: Appropriate uses do not include the construction
or placement of any new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on
stilts, excavation or channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise
nonappropriate uses in the floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting
designed to act as a fence) and storage of materials except as specifically
defined in subsection A of this section as an appropriate use.
   C.   Engineering And Mitigation Criteria: Within the designated floodway,
the construction of an appropriate use will be considered permissible;
provided, that the proposed project meets the following engineering and
mitigation criteria and is so stated in writing with supporting plans,
calculations and data by a licensed professional engineer; and provided, that
any structure meets the protection requirements of chapter 5 of this title:
      1.   Preservation Of Flood Conveyance To Protect Flood Stages Upstream:
For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings, on stream
structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost due to
the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including the 100-
year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway conveyance,
the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
         a.   Designated floodway conveyance, "K" (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where "n" is
Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective flow area of the cross
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See Ven Te
Chow, "Open Channel Hydraulics" [McGraw-Hill, New York 1959].)
         b.   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
         c.   Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations of
effective designated floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
IDNR/OWR, through engineering calculations or model tests, that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
            (1)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
            (2)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length.
            (3)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction,
a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of
stream length shall be used.
            (4)   Transition sections shall be provided between cross sections
with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
            (5)   All cross sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
      2.   Preservation Of Floodway Storage To Protect Downstream Flooding:
         a.   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
         b.   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at
least the volume of floodplain storage lost.
         c.   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head loss
behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
         d.   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All designated floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
         e.   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the location of
the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall demonstrate, through
a determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations, that the
compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
         f.   There shall be no reduction in floodway surface area as a result
of a floodway modification, unless such modification is necessary to reduce
flooding at existing structure.
      3.   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities To Protect Stream Erosion Or
Flood Heights:
         a.   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on stream
structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the average
channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood events up to
and including the 100-year frequency event.
         b.   In the case of bridges or culverts or on stream structures built
for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood flows,
velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of riprap or other design measures.
      4.   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches:
         a.   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or
within recorded flood easements.
         b.   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood stages
greater than 0.1 foot, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a permit
for a dam or waiver.
            (1)   The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in section
12-1-5 of this title. Bridges and culverts must be analyzed using any commonly
accepted FEMA approved hydraulic models.
            (2)   Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection
C2 of this section.
            (3)   Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection C3 of
this section.
            (4)   If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used
for recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be received.
            (5)   The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this
section.
            (6)   All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per subsection C8 of this section.
      5.   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts And
Approach Roads:
         a.   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than 0.1 foot increase in
backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and
including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a source of
flood damage.
         b.   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
         c.   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is a
source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in accordance
with 17 Illinois administrative code part 3708 ("Floodway Construction In
Northeastern Illinois") and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence
before a permit is issued.
      6.   On Stream Structures Built For Backing Up Water:
         a.   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 feet, when
compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or
within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the
design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded
flood easements.
         b.   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be
obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
         c.   All dams and impoundment structures, as defined in section
12-1-2 of this title, shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Illinois
administrative code part 3702 ("Construction And Maintenance Of Dams"). If the
proposed activity involves a modification of the channel or floodway to
accommodate an impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
            (1)   The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation, or regional stormwater detention.
            (2)   The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous
fish species which require access to upstream areas as part of their life
cycle, such as for spawning.
            (3)   The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded
water quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual
bank slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures and a presedimentation
basin.
            (4)   A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control.
            (5)   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
chapter.
      7.   Floodproofing Existing Residential And Commercial Structures:
         a.   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building.
         b.   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required
for floodproofing activities.
      8.   Excavation In Floodway:
         a.   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and culvert
openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing bridge and
culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other appropriate
uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
         b.   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR, through engineering
calculations or model tests, that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency:
            (1)   When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
and
            (2)   When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length; and
            (3)   When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction,
a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of
stream length shall be used; and
            (4)   Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream
and downstream of the transition sections.
      9.   Channel Modifications: If the proposed activity involves a channel
modification, it shall be demonstrated that:
         a.   There are no practicable alternatives to the activity which would
accomplish its purpose with less impact to the natural conditions of the body
of water affected. Possible alternatives include levees, bank stabilization,
floodproofing of existing structures, removal of structures from the
floodplain, clearing the channel, high flow channel, or the establishment of a
streamside buffer strip or greenbelt. Channel modification is acceptable if the
purpose is to restore natural conditions and improve water quality and fish and
wildlife habitat;
         b.   Water quality, habitat, and other natural functions would be
significantly improved by the modification and no significant habitat area may
be destroyed, or the impacts are offset by the replacement of an equivalent
degree of natural resource values;
         c.   The activity has been planned and designed and will be
constructed in a way which will minimize its adverse impacts on the natural
conditions of the body of water affected, consistent with the following
criteria:
            (1)   The physical characteristics of the modified channel shall
match as closely as possible those of the existing channel in length, cross
section, slope and sinuosity. If the existing channel has been previously
modified, restoration of more natural physical conditions should be
incorporated into channel modification design, where practical;
            (2)   Hydraulically effective transitions shall be provided at both
the upstream and downstream ends of the project, designed such that they will
prevent erosion;
            (3)   One sided construction of a channel shall be used when
feasible. Removal of streamside (riparian) vegetation should be limited to one
side of the channel, where possible, to preserve the shading and stabilization
effects of the vegetation;
            (4)   Clearing of stabilizing vegetation shall be limited to that
which is essential for construction of the channel;
            (5)   Channel banks shall be constructed with a side slope no
steeper than three to one (3:1) horizontal to vertical, wherever practicable.
Native vegetation and gradual side slopes are the preferred methods for bank
stabilization. Where high velocities or sharp bends necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or riprap are preferred approaches. Artificial materials such as concrete,
gabions, or construction rubble should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives;
            (6)   All disturbed areas associated with the modification shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized as soon as possible upon completion of
construction. Erosion blanket or an equivalent material shall be required to
stabilize disturbed channel banks prior to establishment of the vegetative
cover;
            (7)   If the existing channel contains considerable bottom
diversity such as deep pools, riffles, and other similar features, such
features shall be provided in the new channel. Spawning and nesting areas and
flow characteristics compatible with fish habitat shall also be established,
where appropriate;
            (8)   A sediment basin shall be installed at the downstream end of
the modification to reduce sedimentation and degradation of downstream water
quality;
            (9)   New or relocated channels should be built in the dry, and all
items of construction, including vegetation, should be completed prior to
diversion of water into the new channel;
            (10)   There shall be no increases in stage or velocity as the
channel enters or leaves the project site for any frequency flood unless
necessitated by a public flood control project or unless such an increase is
justified as part of a habitat improvement or erosion control project;
            (11)   Unless the modification is for a public flood control
project, there shall be no reduction in the volume of floodwater storage
outside the floodway as a result of the modification; and
         d.   The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
chapter.
      10.   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
      11.   Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in the
floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
         a.   The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the maximum
vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the time soil
is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to the
initiation of improvements.
         b.   Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be applied to
denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be
provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any portion
of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may not be at
final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60) days.
         c.   Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion
ditches, and sediment traps and basins.
         d.   A vegetative buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25') in
width shall be preserved and/or reestablished, where possible, along existing
channels (see subsection C16 of this section). Construction vehicle use of
channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed,
where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or along
channels shall be restabilized immediately.
         e.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be designed
and implemented consistent with "Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil
Erosion And Sedimentation Control In Illinois" (1988), also known as the "Green
Book" and "The Illinois Urban Manual" (NRCS, 199.5).
      12.   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR, through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations, that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
      13.   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
         a.   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study referenced in section
12-1-5 of this title must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If the
study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR shall be
contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base conditions data
to use.
         b.   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of the
proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
            (1)   The requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency
flood elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
            (2)   Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water
elevations.
         c.   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, or modified, a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction profile shall reflect conditions when the
bridge, culvert or flood control project is built.
      14.   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision:
         a.   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the designated
floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant
shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and documents
necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision and
receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
         b.   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging,
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
         c.   In the case of nongovernment projects, the municipality in
incorporated areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
         d.   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
         e.   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
      15.   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses shall
be performed by or under the supervision of a licensed professional engineer.
      16.   Activities Near A Channel: For all activities in the floodway
involving construction within twenty five feet (25') of a channel, the
following criteria shall be met:
         a.   A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
         b.   Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetative buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
      17.   Construction Authorized; Compliance Required: After receipt of
conditional approval of the designated floodway change and issuance of a permit
and a conditional letter of map revision, construction as necessary to change
the floodway designation may proceed, but no buildings or structures or other
construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area until
the designated floodway map is changed and a final letter of map revision is
received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and
concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the as built plans.
   D.   Development Activities Requiring State Review: For those projects
listed below located in a designated floodway, the following criteria shall be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and concurrence and/or permit prior to
the issuance of a permit by a community or county delegated state permitting
authority in the floodway.
      1.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed bridge
pursuant to subsection C4 of this section.
      2.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection C5 of this section.
      3.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent storage
pursuant to subsections C1, C2 and C8 of this section. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
      4.   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in
section
12-1-2 of this title) and all other federal, state, or local units of
government projects, including projects of the village. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008;
amd. 2016 Code)
      5.   An engineer's determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
      6.   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
      7.   Projects in public bodies of water.
   E.   Other Permits:
      1.   In addition to the other requirements of this title, a development
permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless the
applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is not
required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
5 et seq.
      2.   No correspondence from IDNR/OWR shall be required if the project
meets the requirements of regional permit 3.
      3.   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has delegated
this responsibility to the village. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
   F.   Permits For Dams:
      1.   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a
"dam", as defined in section
12-1-2 of this title, per 17 Illinois administrative code part 3702
("construction and maintenance of dams"), shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior
to the start of construction of a dam. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   If the building inspector finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/OWR
permit, the building inspector shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR Bartlett
office. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
      3.   If building inspector finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe
condition, the building inspector shall immediately notify the owner of the
dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois emergency management agency
(IEMA). (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   Activities Not Requiring Engineer's Review: The following activities
may be permitted without a licensed professional engineer's review. Such
activities shall still meet the other requirements of this title, including the
mitigation requirements: regional permit 3 which authorizes, for example,
underground and overhead utilities, storm and sanitary sewer outfalls,
sidewalks, patios, athletic fields, playground equipment and stream bank
protection activities. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
CHAPTER 4
SFHA AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED
SECTION:
12-4-1: Development Restricted
12-4-2: Development Permit
12-4-3: Preventing Increased Damages
12-4-1: DEVELOPMENT RESTRICTED:
In SFHAs or floodplains (including AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A zones), where no
floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevations have been established by FEMA, and draining more than a square mile,
no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-4-2: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body,
not exempted by state law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or a
floodplain without first obtaining a development permit from the building
inspector.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
made on a form provided by the building inspector. The application shall be
accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions; and existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling, sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or
surveyor; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and the elevations of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of chapter 5 of this title. The
application for a development permit shall also include the following
information:
      1.   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose and
intended use;
      2.   Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
      3.   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
      4.   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include, as a
minimum:
         a.   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
         b.   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations, using the North American vertical datum of 1988,
adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements,
distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water), floodplain
limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow, and a graphical
or numerical scale;
         c.   Cross section views of the project perpendicular to the flow of
floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed conditions
including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view, existing and
proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation,
100-year frequency flood elevation, and graphical or numerical scales
(horizontal and vertical); and
         d.   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
   C.   Engineering Data: Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be
submitted showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of section
12-4-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Other Required Permits: Any and all other federal, state, and local
permits or approvals that may be required for this type of development.
   E.   Review Of Application:
      1.   Based on the best available existing data according to federal,
state or other sources, the building inspector shall compare the elevation of
the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
      2.   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the developer's
engineer shall calculate the elevation according to subsection
12-1-5E of this title.
      3.   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map
identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this title.
      4.   The building inspector shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification.
      5.   The building inspector shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
waivers that may be required for this type of activity. The building inspector
shall not issue the development permit unless all required federal, state, and
local permits have been obtained. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-4-3: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES:
   A.   No development in the SFHA where a floodway has not been determined
shall create a damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or
velocity, or threat to public health, safety and welfare, or impair the natural
hydrologic and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or impair
existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this title.
   B.   Within all riverine SFHAs where the floodway has not been determined,
the following standards shall apply:
      1.   a. The developer shall have a licensed professional engineer state
in writing and show through supporting plans, calculations, and data that the
project meets the engineering requirements of subsection
12-3-3C of this title for the entire floodplain as calculated under the
provisions of subsection
12-1-5E of this title.
         b.   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering study
performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to IDNR/OWR
and FEMA for acceptance as a designated floodway.
         c.   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR and FEMA, the
developer shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of
chapter 3 of this title for the designated floodway. The "floodway" shall be
defined according to the definition in section
12-1-2 of this title.
      2.   A development permit shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains an IDNR/OWR permit or a determination has been made that an IDNR/OWR
permit is not required. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
      3.   a. Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of a
"dam", as defined in section
12-1-2 of this title, per 17 Illinois administrative code part 3702
("construction and maintenance of dams") shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior
to the start of construction of a dam. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
         b.   If the building inspector finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/
OWR permit, the building inspector shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR
Bartlett office. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
         c.   If the building inspector finds a dam which is believed to be in
unsafe condition, the building inspector shall immediately notify the owner of
the dam, the IDNR/OWR Bartlett office, and the Illinois emergency management
agency (IEMA). (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   The following activities may be permitted without a licensed
professional engineer's review or calculation of base flood elevation and
designated floodway. Such activities shall still meet the other requirements of
this title.
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 2;
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit no. 3;
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide
permit no. 4;
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no.
5;
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 6; activities not involving fill or positive change in
grade are covered by this permit;
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 7;
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 8;
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 9;
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 10;
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit no. 11;
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit no. 12;
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 13;
      13.   Special uses of public waters meeting conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit no. 14; and
      14.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   D.   The flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse
shall be maintained.
   E.   1. Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
      2.   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the volume of
storage lost due to the fill or structure.
      3.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
      4.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-
2008)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Compliance Required
12-5-2: Public Health Standards
12-5-3: Carrying Capacity And Notification
12-5-4: Protecting Buildings
12-5-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
In addition to the requirements found in chapters 2, 3 and 4 of this title for
development in flood fringes, designated floodways, and SFHAs or floodplains
where no floodways have been identified, the requirements of this chapter shall
be met. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-5-2: PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS:
   A.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE) unless such materials are stored in a floodproofed
and anchored storage tank and certified by a professional engineer or
floodproofed building constructed according to the requirements of section
12-5-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric shall
be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   C.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   D.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer lines
and on site waste disposal systems may be permitted, provided all manholes or
other aboveground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
   E.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-
2008)
12-5-3: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
   A.   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   B.   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-5-4: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain, also known as an
"SFHA", shall be protected from flood damage below the flood protection
elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the following
situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet;
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the flood
protection standards of this section;
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section;
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year; and
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building, as defined in section
12-1-2 of this title. This building protection requirement may be met by one of
the methods set out in subsections B through H of this section.
   B.   A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
      1.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the flood
protection elevation; and
      2.   The following fill requirements:
         a.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond
the foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection
elevation; and
         b.   The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection
elevation. However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural
engineer certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages
due to hydrostatic pressures; and
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure; and
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         e.   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary, stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
   C.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in accordance
with the following:
      1.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. Designs must either be certified by a
licensed professional engineer or architect or the permanent openings, one on
each wall, shall be no more than one foot (1') above existing grade, and
consist of a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings must have a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation; and
      2.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and aligned
in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize exposure
to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating debris;
and
      3.   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be constructed
of materials resistant to flood damage; and
      4.   The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical, heating,
ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall
be located at or above the flood protection elevation; and
      5.   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines, submersible
pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
      6.   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used for
the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and not later modified or occupied as habitable space; and
      7.   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with
these requirements may be certified by licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      8.   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days shall be elevated to or above the flood
protection elevation; and shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules and
regulations for the Illinois mobile home tiedown act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois administrative code part 870. In addition, all manufactured homes
shall meet the following elevation requirements:
         a.   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved: 1) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; 2) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision; 3) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision; or 4) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage from a flood, the top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation.
         b.   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation or the chassis is at least thirty six inches (36") in
height above grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of
equivalent strength, whichever is less.
      9.   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to meet
the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection C8 of this section
unless:
         a.   They are on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
         b.   They are fully licensed, ready for highway use, and used only for
recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent
dwelling. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utility and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
   D.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation); provided, that:
      1.   A licensed professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood protection
elevation, and the structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight
and capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood.
      2.   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms, floodwalls and
similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose of this
subsection).
   E.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation; provided, that the following conditions are met:
      1.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
      2.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall shall have
a total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of
enclosed area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade;
and
      3.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade; and
      4.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
(4') at any point; and
      5.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event; and
      6.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
      7.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
   F.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities shall
be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new critical
facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   Toolsheds, detached garages, and other minor accessory structures on an
existing single-family platted lot may be constructed with the lowest floor
below the flood protection elevation in accordance with the following:
      1.   The building is not used for human habitation; and
      2.   All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation
shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in a
designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of floodwaters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of chapter 3 of this title. In addition, all other requirements of
chapters 2, 3 and 4 of this title must be met; and
      3.   The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation; and
      4.   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation; and
      5.   The building shall be valued at less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) and be less than five hundred (500) square feet in floor size; and
      6.   The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles or tools
and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar uses and
cannot be modified later into another use; and
      7.   The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of subsection
C1 of this section; and
      8.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation; and
      9.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
   H.   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also meet
the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in chapter 3 of this
title. Nonconforming structures located in a designated floodway may remain in
use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally altered in accordance
with section
12-3-3 of this title. A nonconforming structure damaged by flood, fire, wind or
other natural or manmade disaster may be restored unless the damage exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of its market value before it was damaged, in which, case
it shall conform to this title. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
CHAPTER 6
OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-6-1: Village Considerations
12-6-2: Compliance Required
12-6-3: Required Data
12-6-4: Design Of Public Ways And Grounds
12-6-5: Developments Outside Village Limits
12-6-6: Other Activities
12-6-1: VILLAGE CONSIDERATIONS:
The village shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that they are
known, in all official actions related to land management, use and development.
(Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-6-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and planned
unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure that the
proposed developments are consistent with chapters 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this title
and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans for new subdivisions,
mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs) shall include a signed
statement by a licensed professional engineer that the plat or plans account
for changes in the drainage of surface waters in accordance with the plat act 1
. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
12-6-3: REQUIRED DATA:
Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer parks,
planned unit developments (PUDs), additions to manufactured home parks and
additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation data and floodway delineations. Where this information is not
available from an existing adopted study, the applicant's engineer shall be
responsible for calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation per subsection
12-1-5E of this title and the floodway delineation per the definition in
section
12-1-2 of this title, definition of "designated floodway". (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-
2008)
12-6-4: DESIGN OF PUBLIC WAYS AND GROUNDS:
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
12-6-5: DEVELOPMENTS OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS:
The village board of trustees shall not approve any planned unit development
(PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such
agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 08-
07, 6-9-2008)
12-6-6: OTHER ACTIVITIES:
All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so as not to
alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 08-07, 6-9-2008)
 
