VILLAGE CODE
OF
HUDSON, IL
Code current through:
Ord. 1389, passed February 4, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This Village Code of the Village of Hudson, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 1389, passed 2-4-2025. Ordinances of
the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1286
VILLAGE OF HUDSON
MCLEAN COUNTY, ILLINOIS
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE OF HUDSON, ILLINOIS, VILLAGE CODE
   NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF HUDSON, MCLEAN COUNTY, ILLINOIS, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1: The village code, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, attached hereto
by reference and incorporated herein, is hereby adopted as the codification of
all ordinances of a general nature of the village of Hudson and from and after
the date of passage of this ordinance, the village code of the village of
Hudson, Illinois containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general
nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction
of the governing body of the village, shall be accepted in all courts without
question as the official code and law of the village of Hudson as enacted by
the president and board of trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official village code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the village clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
village code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official village code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the village code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official village code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of the village code, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense, provided that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   Whenever in the village code the doing of any act or the omission to do an
act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there
shall be no fine or penalty declared for such breach, any person who shall be
convicted of any such breach shall be fined in accordance with section
1-4-1 of the village code for each offense. Each day that any such violation or
failure continues shall be considered as a separate and distinct offense and
shall be punishable as such.
   In case of amendment of any section of the village code containing
provisions for which a penalty is provided in another section, the penalty so
provided in such other section shall be held to relate to this section so
amended or the amending section whether re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance
or not, unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
   Section 7: Severability. If any part, provision, portion, article, section
or subdivision of the village code or any other ordinance of the village of
Hudson or application thereof to any person or circumstance is held
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such holding
does not affect other provisions or applications of the village code section or
ordinances which can be given effect without the invalid application or
provisions, and the provisions of each code section or ordinance are severable
unless otherwise provided.
   Section 8: All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in the
village of Hudson code shall be liberally construed in order that the true
intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may be fully
carried out.
   Section 9: Effective Date. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage, approval, and publication in pamphlet form as
provided by law.
   Section 10: Publication. The village clerk be and she is hereby authorized
and directed to publish this ordinance in pamphlet form as provided by law.
   Section 11: Repeal And Savings Clause. All ordinances or parts of ordinances
in conflict herewith are hereby repealed provided, however, that nothing herein
contained shall affect any rights, action, or causes of action which shall have
accrued to the village of Hudson prior to the effective date of this ordinance.
   PASSED this 7th day of June, 2016, by the mayor and board of trustees for
the village of Hudson.
                                              YES NO ABSENT PRESENT
Richard Bland
Alan Meissner
Phil Morris
Pat O'Grady
Betty Scanlon
Paul Craddock
Collins*
(to the extent mayoral vote may be necessary)
TOTAL
 
APPROVED by the mayor on the 7th day of June, 2016.
            
         Jason Collins, City Mayor
ATTEST:
      
Allison Brutlag, Village Clerk
(Amended by Ord. 1298, 4-5-2017)
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
HUDSON VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Hudson. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HUDSON VILLAGE CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2016 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2016 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2016 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the village; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2016 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2016 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Hudson".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2016 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of trustees of
the village of Hudson.
CODE: The village code of the village of Hudson.
COUNTY: The county of McLean, state of Illinois.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
VILLAGE: The village of Hudson, county of McLean, state of Illinois. (2016
Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2016
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Fines:
      1.   The violation of or failure to comply with any provision of this
code shall constitute an offense against the village, and where no specific
penalty is provided therefor, shall subject the offender, upon conviction, to
be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
for a first offense thereof, a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for a second or subsequent offense thereof, nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine,
penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day any
violation of any provision of this code shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
      2.   Whenever in this code a minimum but not a maximum fine or penalty is
imposed, the court may, in its discretion, fine the offender any sum exceeding
the minimum fine or penalty so fixed but not exceeding seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
      3.   In addition to the fine described in this subsection, the circuit
court may impose a period of "conditional discharge", as defined in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4, or "court supervision", as defined in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21, for a period of up to six (6) months, an
order of restitution, an order to perform community service, an order to
complete an education program and/or any other appropriate penalties or
conditions authorized in any section of this code or stand alone ordinance or
any conditions for conditional discharge set forth in 730 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
5-6-3.1, as the foregoing are amended from time to time.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Offenses: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Any condition caused or permitted to exist in
violation of any of the provisions of this code shall be deemed a public
nuisance and shall be subject to abatement by the village. The village shall be
entitled to pursue any such remedies available to abate the public nuisance.
   D.   Citation And Payment: Unless a process is otherwise specifically
provided within this code for a specific violation, any village employee or
officer designated by the village board may issue citations for violations of
this code. These citations may be issued via certified mail or by personal
delivery, with signature required in either case. Should certified mail be
returned undeliverable or should signature be refused, the citation will be
served by a village police officer.
   E.   Default In Payment: In accordance with law, a default in the payment of
a fine or penalty or any installment of a fine or penalty may be collected by
any means authorized for the collection of monetary judgments. Any fees or
costs incurred by the village with respect to attorneys or private collection
agents retained by the village under section
1-2-1 of the Illinois municipal code shall be charged to the offender.
   F.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   G.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense.
   H.   Definition: For purposes of this section, "this code" refers to any
building, property maintenance, residential, plumbing, electrical or other code
adopted by reference by the village and all other ordinances and resolutions
adopted by the village.
   I.   Over The Counter Settlement: A citation for a violation of any
provision of Village ordinance may be settled only in specific compliance with
this provisions of this paragraph. An individual may settle his ordinance
violation citation without the necessity of a court appearance by delivering to
the Village of Hudson Village Hall cash, check or money order made payable to
the Village of Hudson during normal business hours not later than the close of
business on the fourteenth (14) day after the date the citation was issued the
sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the first offense or one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for the second offense. No person who is charged with a third
or subsequent violation of any Village ordinance shall be eligible to settle
the ordinance violation charge pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph.
The determination of whether an offense is a first offense, second offence or
third or subsequent offense shall be made for all purposes of this section by
determining the number of instances in which the individual who has been issued
the citation has settled a charge over the counter or has been convicted by a
court of competent jurisdiction of a violation of the section of the village
ordinance for which a citation has been issued in the three hundred sixty five
(365) days immediately preceding the date of the citation without regard to
whether court supervision was awarded. (Ord. 1250, 7-6-2010; amd. 2016 Code;
Ord. 1323, 4-3-2019)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2016 Code)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTIVE VILLAGE OFFICERS
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Election And Term
1-5A-2: Bond; Oath; Compensation
1-5A-3: Powers And Duties
1-5A-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The village president shall be elected for a four (4) year term and shall serve
until his or her successor is elected and qualified as provided by statute.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5A-2: BOND; OATH; COMPENSATION:
Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the village president
shall give a bond, with sureties to be approved by the board of trustees,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office,
in a sum no greater than the minimum amount provided by statute. Said bond
shall be filed with the village clerk. He or she shall take the oath of office
prescribed by statute and shall receive such compensation as may be set in
compliance with state statute by the board of trustees. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5A-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village president shall be the chief executive officer
of the village and shall preside at all meetings of the board of trustees. He
or she shall perform all such duties as may be required of him or her by
statute or ordinance. He or she shall have supervision over all the executive
officers and employees of the village and shall have the power and authority to
inspect all books and records pertaining to village affairs and kept by any
officer or employee of the village, at any reasonable time.
   B.   Appointment Of Officers: The village president shall appoint, by and
with the advice and consent of a majority of the entire board of trustees, all
officers of the village whose appointment or election is not otherwise
provided. Any vacancies occurring in appointive offices shall be filled in the
same manner. The president shall submit all appointments to the board of
trustees for each year not later than the June meeting.
   C.   Designation Of Officers' Duties: Whenever there is a dispute as to the
respective duties or powers of any appointive officer of the village, this
dispute shall be settled by the village president after consultation with the
village attorney.
   D.   Serve As Local Liquor Control Commissioner: The village president shall
serve as local liquor control commissioner during his or her term of office.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-5B-1: Election; Term; Legislative Powers And Duties
1-5B-2: Regular And Special Meetings; Quorum
1-5B-3: Presiding Officer
1-5B-4: Procedure To Appoint President Pro Tem Or Temporary Chair
1-5B-5: Order Of Business
1-5B-6: Rescinded Action
1-5B-7: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-5B-8: Addressing Meetings
1-5B-9: Voting
1-5B-10: Rules Of Order
1-5B-11: Records Kept
1-5B-1: ELECTION; TERM; LEGISLATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES:
The members of the village board shall be elected and serve a four (4) year
term as provided by statute. The village board shall be the legislative
division of the village government and shall perform such duties and have such
powers as may be authorized by statute. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5B-2: REGULAR AND SPECIAL MEETINGS; QUORUM:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the village board of
trustees, consisting of six (6) trustees, shall be held on the first Tuesday in
each month at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. If the regular meeting
falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next day at the
same hour and place. Adjourned meetings may be held at such other times as the
village board may determine.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the village board may be called
by the president or two (2) trustees; provided, that written notice of the
meeting is given to each member of the village board at least forty eight (48)
hours before the time set for the meeting. In case all the elected members of
the village board are present at any special meeting, then the requirement of
notice shall be unnecessary and shall be deemed waived.
   C.   Meetings Convened; Quorum:
      1.   Each meeting of the village board shall convene at the time
appointed for such meeting, as provided by ordinance. The village clerk or, in
his or her absence, a member of the village board or a recording secretary
shall thereupon immediately call the roll of members. A majority of the elected
members of the village board shall constitute a quorum thereof. If no quorum is
present, no business shall be conducted.
      2.   If no quorum is present and the members present desire to compel the
attendance of absent members, they themselves, or by their agents, shall
attempt to communicate the call to the session personally to the absentees. Any
absent member who refuses to attend the meeting (or a new meeting to which the
members present have adjourned) after personal notice to attend may be fined by
the members present a sum not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each
occurrence or other amount as provided by statute. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010; amd.
2016 Code; Ord. 1364, 10-19-2022)
1-5B-3: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The president shall preside at all meetings of the village board, but he or she
shall have a vote only when state statutes or village ordinances require more
than a majority vote of the corporate authorities or in the event of a tie or
when one-half (1/2) of the trustees elected has voted in favor of an ordinance,
resolution or motion, even though there is no tie vote. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010;
amd. 2016 Code)
1-5B-4: PROCEDURE TO APPOINT PRESIDENT PRO TEM OR TEMPORARY CHAIR:
   A.   President Pro Tem:
      1.   Election: Pursuant to the authority granted in section 3.1-35-35 of
the Illinois municipal code, if the president is temporarily absent because of
an incapacity to perform official duties, a majority of the Corporate
Authorities of the Village may elect one of their members, according to the
order of succession described more fully in subsection C of this section, to
act as President Pro Tem.
      2.   Authority: The President Pro Tem, during the President's absence or
incapacity, shall be empowered to perform all the rights and powers of the
President. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
      3.   Voting: The President Pro Tem shall not be entitled to vote both as
a Trustee and as President Pro Tem.
   B.   Temporary Chair:
      1.   Election: Pursuant to the authority granted in section 3.1-35-35 of
the Illinois Municipal Code, in the absence of the President, acting President
or President Pro Tem, a majority of the Corporate Authorities of the Village
may elect one of their members, according to the order of succession described
more fully in subsection C of this section, to act as Temporary Chair. (Ord.
1246, 1-5-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Authority: The Temporary Chair shall have only those powers of a
presiding officer.
      3.   Voting: The Temporary Chair shall only be entitled to vote as
Trustee on any ordinance, resolution or motion.
   C.   Order Of Succession: In order to best provide for the health, safety
and general welfare of the residents, the Corporate Authorities of the Village
find that it is prudent to observe an order of succession to the position of
either President Pro Tem or Temporary Chair that complies with the order of
seniority of the members of the Corporate Authorities then holding office and
then present at the relevant meeting of the Corporate Authorities. Therefore,
in the event the conditions of subsection A or B of this section are satisfied,
the Corporate Authorities shall elect the Trustee with the longest tenure who
is then present to the relevant position therein described. In the absence of
the President or in his or her inability to act, the Board shall elect one of
its members to act as President Pro Tem. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5B-5: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The Village President, with the aid of the Village Clerk, shall set an agenda
which sets forth the items of business to be considered for each meeting of the
Village Board in accordance with applicable laws. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5B-6: RESCINDED ACTION:
No vote or action of the Village Board shall be rescinded at any special
meeting unless there are present at the special meeting as many members of the
Village Board as were present at the meeting when the vote or action was taken,
as provided by statute. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5B-7: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Ordinances: No ordinance shall be passed except upon the favorable vote
of a majority of the elected members, unless a greater majority is provided by
statute.
   B.   Resolutions: At the request of any two (2) members of the Village
Board, any resolution submitted to the Village Board shall be reduced to
writing before being voted on. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5B-8: ADDRESSING MEETINGS:
   A.   The Village President or his or her designee (hereafter the presiding
officer) shall preside over all Village Board of Trustee (hereafter the Village
Board) meetings and shall recognize members of the Village Board to speak when
such is in order.
   B.   No person who is not a member of the Village Board shall be permitted
to speak at any public meeting of the Village Board, any committee thereof, or
any other committee, board, commission, agency or other public body of the
Village except in accordance with the following rules and procedures or such
rules and procedures as may be adopted by majority vote of such committee,
board, commission or agency. For purposes of this section, such non-members of
the public body shall be referred to as "interested parties". Nothing herein
shall be construed to apply to an evidentiary hearing before an administrative
officer or body of the Village.
      1.   No party may speak at any public meeting except when recognized and
permitted to speak by the presiding officer, and public comment shall be
permitted by the presiding officer only during the designated public
participation portion of the meeting.
      2.   Any interested party wishing to speak at any public meeting shall
register, in writing, prior to the beginning of the meeting, on a form provided
by the Village Clerk, giving his or her name, home or business address, and the
topic on which the interested party wishes to speak. The presiding officer
shall recognize speakers in the order in which their notices were received. A
person who has not so registered shall not be permitted to address the public
meeting, except upon motion approved by a majority vote of the Village Board.
An interested party may record only his or her name on the form provided; the
interested party may not record the names of others on the form. A
representative of a group of interested parties who intends to speak on behalf
of the group shall verbally identify the individual members of the group by
name and address.
      3.   When an interested party is recognized by the presiding officer for
the purpose of speaking publicly, the interested party shall speak only from a
location designated by the presiding officer, and the interested party shall
use a microphone when one is provided. The speaker shall first state his or her
name, followed by the names and addresses of the group being represented if
such a group exists. An interested party may speak for no longer than five (5)
minutes, and all public comment shall be directed to the presiding officer. No
comments shall be directed to individual members of the public body.
      4.   Defamatory or obscene comments and derogatory remarks directed at
any person shall not be permitted. Other comments which are prohibited include:
         Personal attacks.
         Racial, sexist, homophobic, religious, political, ethnic, or other
epithets.
         Profanity, insulting, rude, vulgar, obnoxious, or foul language.
         Threats, including, but not limited to:
         Threats of violence.
         Threats of vandalism.
      These examples are not exhaustive. Insulting or disparaging an individual
person is a personal attack regardless of the manner in which it is done, and
is prohibited.
      5.   Shouting, clapping, or stomping by any individual or group of
individuals or making any other disruptive noise from the floor is prohibited
while a person is speaking. Standing, waving, holding any sign, making any
obscene gesture, or other disruptive activity is prohibited. Disruptive noise
or activity is anything which interrupts or prevents the orderly conduct of the
business of the meeting. Unless recognized by the presiding officer, members of
the audience shall remain silent throughout the meeting.
      6.   No person shall block any doorway. All persons in attendance at the
meeting shall be seated during the meeting, except in cases of medical
necessity, cases of practical necessity (e.g., while making a presentation),
cases where standing is appropriate to show respect (e.g., the Pledge of
Allegiance, etc.), or cases of insufficient seating.
      7.   All cell phones shall be silenced except when used as an audio/video
device during a meeting. No person shall conduct a cell phone conversation
during a meeting. No person shall talk to another person during a meeting in a
manner which makes it difficult for nearby persons to hear the proceedings of
the meeting.
      8.   A person may photograph or make an audio or video recording of a
meeting subject to the following limitations.
         a.   A video camera or video recording device mounted on a tripod may
be located only in an area designated therefor at the rear of the audience, and
so as not to interfere with the ability of anyone to observe the meeting. Due
to limited space, only one such camera shall be allowed per person. No person
shall stand or move around the meeting room for the purpose of taking
photographs or video recordings without the approval of the presiding officer.
         b.   No camera shall be directed at members of the public attending
the meeting; cameras may be used only to photograph or record the proceedings
of the public body and those people who are speaking from a designated
location.
         c.   No camera lighting may be used except for periods lasting no more
than one minute in any fifteen (15) minute period, and shall not interfere with
the ability of any person to observe the proceedings. The presiding officer may
grant exceptions to this time limit in the case of video recording intended for
commercial use which must meet commercial broadcast quality standards.
         d.   Under no circumstances shall an audio or video recording process
be permitted to interfere with the conduct of the meeting. The presiding
officer may issue such orders as may be appropriate to terminate any disruption
of the meeting caused by recording activity.
      9.   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be
warned by the presiding officer to immediately discontinue the action and not
repeat the violation. Any continuation or repetition of the violation after one
warning shall constitute grounds for removal of the person from the meeting and
shall constitute the offense of disorderly conduct. One or more police officers
shall be present at any public meeting if requested by the presiding officer
and may remove any person violating this section. (Ord. 1304, 11-7-2017)
1-5B-9: VOTING:
Every member who shall be present when a question is stated from the Chair
shall vote thereon or abstain at the time that his or her name is first called.
A failure to vote shall be counted as an abstention and will count in the
manner established by law. Any member required to abstain on a matter due to
conflict or interest shall so declare. A roll call vote shall be required on
any matter creating a liability against the Village or expending Village funds.
A roll call vote shall also be required any time the Village Board votes to go
into closed session under the Open Meetings Act. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5B-10: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Robert's Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the
deliberations of the Village Board except when in conflict with any of the
rules set out in this article.
   B.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-5B-11: RECORDS KEPT:
The Village Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the Village Board
proceedings. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
CHAPTER 6
APPOINTIVE VILLAGE OFFICIALS
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Created; Appointment And Term; Compensation
1-6A-2: Bond
1-6A-3: Duties
1-6A-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; COMPENSATION:
There is created the office of village treasurer. The treasurer shall be
appointed by the president, by and with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, and shall hold office as appointed or as otherwise provided by law.
He or she shall receive such compensation as may be provided from time to time
by the corporate authorities. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-6A-2: BOND:
The village treasurer shall give bond in such sum as may be required by the
village board, but the bond shall not be in an amount less than three (3) times
the latest federal census population within the corporate boundaries or any
subsequent census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes. The bond shall be
conditioned upon the faithful performance by the village treasurer of his or
her duties of office and to indemnify the village for any loss due to any
neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the village treasurer. The bond
shall be filed with the village clerk. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-6A-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village treasurer shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed for him or her by statute or by ordinance. He or she shall receive
all monies paid to the village, either directly from the person paying or from
the hands of such other officer as may receive said monies. He or she shall pay
out monies only on vouchers or orders properly signed by the village clerk and
the president.
   B.   Deposit Of Funds: The village treasurer shall deposit the village funds
in such depositories as may be selected from time to time as provided by law.
He or she shall keep the village monies separate and distinct from his or her
own and shall not intermingle his or her own monies therewith or make private
or personal use of the village funds.
   C.   Records Kept: The village treasurer shall keep records showing all
monies received by him or her, the sources from which received, and the purpose
for which paid out. He or she shall keep a record showing the financial status
of the village at all times.
   D.   Accounting: The village treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as
may be required by the village board, and shall keep them in the manner
required by the village board.
   E.   Reports Required:
      1.   Monthly Reports: The village treasurer shall make monthly reports to
the village board showing the state of the finances of the village and the
amounts received and spent during the month, which reports shall be filed.
      2.   Annual Report: The village treasurer shall also make an annual
report between May 1 and May 10, with the total amount of all receipts and
expenditures of the village and his or her transactions as village treasurer
during the preceding year. The annual report shall be filed with the village
clerk and made available for public inspection.
   F.   Register Of Warrants: The village treasurer shall keep a register of
all warrants, bonds, or orders filed with him or her or paid by him or her and
all vouchers, as is required by statute. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-6B-2: Duties
1-6B-3: Special Counsel
1-6B-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
There is created the office of village attorney, an executive office of the
village. The village attorney shall be appointed by the president, with the
advice and consent of the village board of trustees. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-6B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Suits And Actions: The village attorney shall prosecute or defend any
and all suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party,
in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any
officer of the village or in the capacity of such persons as an officer of the
village.
   B.   Judgments: It shall be the duty of the village attorney to see to the
full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of
the village and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   C.   Advice: The village attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the village whenever
requested to do so by any village official. Upon request by the president or by
the village board, he or she shall reduce any such opinion to writing. (Ord.
1246, 1-5-2010)
1-6B-3: SPECIAL COUNSEL:
The president may, from time to time, retain an attorney to represent or advise
the village on legal matters if no village attorney has been appointed. He or
she may likewise retain special counsel to advise or represent the village on
special matters or to assist the village attorney. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Office Created; Qualifications; Appointment
1-6C-2: Duties
1-6C-1: OFFICE CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS; APPOINTMENT:
There is created the office of village engineer, an executive office of the
village. The person filling this office shall be a registered professional
engineer in the state of Illinois. He or she shall be appointed in compliance
with the local government professional services selection act and as otherwise
provided within this title. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-6C-2: DUTIES:
The village engineer shall have the following duties:
   A.   Attend such regular and special meetings of the board of trustees at
which his or her presence has been requested by the board of trustees.
   B.   Act as a consultant to the board of trustees on all matters pertaining
to public improvements such as sidewalks, street pavement, curbs and gutters,
storm drainage, sanitary sewerage, water supply, water treatment and other
municipal engineering problems.
   C.   Make such studies, reports, plans and specifications as he or she may
from time to time be requested to make by the board of trustees. (Ord. 1246, 1-
5-2010)
   D.   Assist the village attorney, water superintendent, superintendent of
streets, zoning enforcement officer and parks and recreation superintendent
through provision of technical advice and services when directed to do so by
the board of trustees. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Prepare such reports and estimates as may be required in the routine
administration of funds derived from the state of Illinois motor fuel tax law
and prepare specific plans and specifications for such specific maintenance and
construction projects as may be financed or partially financed by funds so
derived.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Election And Term
1-6D-2: Bond
1-6D-3: Duties
1-6D-4: Deputy Clerk
1-6D-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
   The Clerk shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, and shall hold office as appointed or as
otherwise provided by law. He or she shall receive such compensation as may be
provided from time to time by the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010; amd. Ord. 1389, 2-4-2025)
1-6D-2: BOND:
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the village clerk
shall execute a bond in an amount as shall be determined by the village board.
Such bond shall be filed with the village treasurer.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010; amd. Ord. 1389, 2-4-2025)
1-6D-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Signatures: The village clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of
the village and all licenses, permits, and other such documents which require
this formality.
   B.   Monies Collected: The village clerk shall turn over all monies received
by him or her on behalf of the village to the village treasurer promptly on
receipt of the same and shall give a statement as to the source thereof.
   C.   Accounting: The village clerk shall keep accounts showing all monies
received by him or her and the source and disposition thereof, and such other
accounts as may be required by statute or ordinance.
   D.   Records: In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the village clerk is required by statute to keep, he or she shall keep a
register of all licenses and permits issued, the payments thereon, a record
showing all of the officers and regular employees of the village, and such
other records as may be required by the village board.
   E.   Custodian Of Seal: The village clerk shall be the custodian of the
village seal and shall affix its impression on documents whenever it is
required.
   F.   Custodian Of Documents: The village clerk shall be the custodian of all
documents belonging to the village which are not assigned to the custody of
some other officer of the village by the president or village board.
   G.   Indexes: The village clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to
all documents and records kept by him or her so that ready access thereto and
use thereof may be had.
   H.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties herein provided, the
village clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be required
by statute or ordinance or approved by the village board.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010; amd. Ord. 1389, 2-4-2025)
1-6D-4: DEPUTY CLERK:
   A.   Position Created; Appointment: There is created the position of deputy
clerk. The corporate authorities of the village authorize the village clerk to
appoint a deputy clerk.
   B.   Duties: In accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-40,
the duties of the deputy clerk shall be those as are prescribed by the Illinois
municipal code to be performed by the village clerk. However, the deputy clerk
shall only have the authority to exercise such powers in the village clerk's
absence or at the request of the village clerk. The deputy clerk shall also
perform such duties in addition to those which may be prescribed by law, and be
subject to other rules and regulations as the corporate authorities may provide
by ordinance.
   C.   Compensation: The deputy clerk shall be paid such hourly rate as shall
be established from time to time by the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010; amd. Ord. 1389, 2-4-2025)
CHAPTER 7
GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Scope
1-7-2: Appointments And Terms
1-7-3: Oath; Bond; Salaries
1-7-4: Assignment Of Duties
1-7-5: Inspection Of Records
1-7-6: Monies To Clerk
1-7-7: Conservators Of The Peace
1-7-8: Books And Records To Successor
1-7-9: General Policies And Procedures Adopted
1-7-10: Participation In Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
1-7-11: Reimbursement Of Travel, Meal, And Lodging Expenses
1-7-12: Remote Attendance Policy
1-7-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers of the
Village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office or of the time of
the appointment of the officer. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-7-2: APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS:
   A.   Appointments: The Village President shall make appointments to fill all
appointive offices, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. Such appointments shall be suggested by the President for each fiscal
year not later than at the June meeting.
   B.   Term Of Office: Every appointive officer or employee of the Village
shall hold office for the term of one year or until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance. (Ord.
1246, 1-5-2010)
1-7-3: OATH; BOND; SALARIES:
   A.   Oath: Every officer of the Village shall, before entering upon his or
her duties, take the oath prescribed by statute. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
   B.   Bond: Every officer shall, if required by the Board of Trustees, before
entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such amount as
may be determined by the Board of Trustees and with such sureties as it may
approve, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her
office or position. The following amounts have been approved by the Board of
Trustees: Village President, three thousand dollars ($3,000.00); Village Clerk,
three thousand dollars ($3,000.00); Village Treasurer, the greater of: 1) six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00) or 2) three (3) times the latest Federal census
population or any subsequent census figure used for Motor Fuel Tax purposes.
Bonds shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk, except the bond of the Clerk,
which shall be filed with the Municipal Treasurer. The Village shall pay the
premium, if any, on the furnishing of said bonds. (Ord. 1303, 10-3-2017)
   C.   Salaries: All officers and employees of the Village shall receive such
salaries as may be provided from time to time by ordinance. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-
2010)
1-7-4: ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES:
The Village President shall have the power to assign to any officer any duty
which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific officer, and he or
she shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective powers or
duties of officers after consultation with the Village Attorney. (Ord. 1246, 1-
5-2010)
1-7-5: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
All records kept by any officer of the Village shall be open to inspection by
the President or any member of the Board of Trustees at all reasonable times,
whether or not such records are to be kept by statute or ordinance. (Ord. 1246,
1-5-2010)
1-7-6: MONIES TO CLERK:
Every officer of the Village shall, at least once each month, turn over all
monies received by him or her in his or her official capacity to the Village
Clerk with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-7-7: CONSERVATORS OF THE PEACE:
The Village President, members of the Board of Trustees and police officers are
declared to be conservators of the peace with such powers to make arrests as
are given to the conservators of the peace by statute. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010;
amd. 2016 Code)
1-7-8: BOOKS AND RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR:
Every officer of the Village, upon termination of his or her office for any
cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books and records
which may be the property of the Village, and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after termination of office, such property shall be
delivered either to the Clerk or Treasurer. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-7-9: GENERAL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES ADOPTED:
Revisions to or amendments of the Village of Hudson General Policies and
Procedures document shall be approved by majority vote of the Village Board of
Trustees. The current version of the Village of Hudson General Policies and
Procedures document is hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth at
length herein. Three (3) copies of said policies and procedures are on file in
the Office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 1308, 1-10-2018)
1-7-10: PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
The Village does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund. The standard for IMRF participation shall be a position
normally requiring performance of duty for one thousand (1,000) hours per year.
(Ord. 1252, 9-7-2010)
1-7-11: REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL, MEAL, AND LODGING EXPENSES:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms, and phrases shall have the
meaning ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the Village or by wards or charges of the Village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   B.   Official Business For Which Expenses May Be Reimbursed:
      1.   An official of the Village shall be entitled to reimbursement for
travel, including meals or lodging, related to the following types of official
business:
         a.   Education conferences related to the duties of the officer of the
Village;
         b.   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the Village.
      2.   An employee shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, including
meals or lodging, related to the following types of official business:
         a.   Education conferences related to the duties of the employee of
the Village;
         b.   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the Village.
   C.   Maximum Allowable Reimbursement For Expenses: Unless otherwise excepted
herein, the maximum allowable reimbursement for an employee or officer of the
Village shall be those rates set by the reimbursement schedule of the
Governor's Travel Control Board in effect at the time the expense was incurred.
   D.   Approval Of Expenses: The Board of Trustees must approve the following
reimbursements for travel, including meals or lodging, by a roll call vote at
an open meeting of the Board:
      1.   Any expense of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
permitted in subsection C of this section; or
      2.   Any expense of any member of the Board of Trustees.
   E.   Documentation Of Expenses: Before any reimbursement for travel,
including meals or lodging, may be approved pursuant to subsection D of this
section, a standardized form for submission of travel, meal, and lodging
expenses supported by the following minimum documentation shall first be
submitted to the Board of Trustees:
      1.   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals, or
lodging if the expenses have already been incurred;
      2.   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the travel,
meal, or lodging expense;
      3.   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
      4.   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended.
All documents and information submitted under this section are public records
subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/1 et seq.
   F.   Entertainment Expenses: No employee or officer of the Village shall be
reimbursed by the Village for any entertainment expense. (Ord. 1305, 11-7-2017)
1-7-12: REMOTE ATTENDANCE POLICY:
   A.   Policy Statement. It is the policy of the Village that any Trustee of
the Village may attend and participate in any open or closed meeting of the
Village from a remote location via telephone, video or internet connection,
provided that such attendance and participation is in compliance with this
policy and any other applicable laws.
   B.   Prerequisites. A Trustee of the Village may attend a meeting from a
remote location if the Trustee meets all of the following conditions:
      1.   A quorum is physically present throughout the meeting.
      2.   The Trustee shall notify the Clerk at least 24 hours before the
meeting so that necessary communications equipment can be arranged. Inability
to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in denial of a request
for remote attendance.
      3.   The Trustee must assert one of the following three reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting.
         a.   The Trustee cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
         b.   The Trustee cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the Village; or
         c.   The Trustee cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
      4.   If the meeting is an Executive Session the Trustee must comply with
the requirements of Section
1-7-12 (H).
   C.   Voting Procedures. The Trustee will be deemed authorized to attend the
meeting electronically unless a motion objecting to the Trustee's electronic
attendance is made, seconded and approved by two-thirds of the Trustees that
are physically present at the meeting. If no such motion is made and seconded,
or if such motion fails to achieve the required two-thirds vote of the Trustees
physically present at the meeting, then the request by the Trustee to attend
the meeting electronically shall be deemed approved by the Village and the
Village President shall declare the Trustee present. After such declaration by
the Village President the question of the Trustee's electronic attendance may
not be reconsidered.
   D.   Adequate Equipment Required. The Trustee participating remotely and
other Trustees of the Village must be able to communicate effectively, and
Trustees of the audience must be able to hear all communications. Before
approving remote attendance at any meeting, the Village shall provide equipment
adequate to accomplish this objective.
   E.   Minutes. Any Trustee participating remotely shall be considered an off-
site participant and counted as present by means of video or audio conference,
for that meeting if the Trustee is allowed to participate. The meeting minutes
shall also reflect and state specifically whether each Trustee is physically
present, present by video, or present by audio means.
   F.   Rights of Remote Trustee. A Trustee permitted to participate remotely
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those Trustees physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The remote Trustee shall be heard, considered, and counted as to any vote
taken. Accordingly, the name of any remote Trustee shall be called during any
vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded by the Clerk and placed in
the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A Trustee participating remotely may
leave a meeting and return as in the case of any Trustee.
   G.   Meetings. The term meeting as used herein refers to any gathering,
whether in person or by video or audio conference, telephone call, electronic
means (such as, without limitation, electronic mail, electronic chat, and
instant messaging), or other means of contemporaneous interactive
communication, of a majority of a quorum of the Trustees of a public body held
for the purposes of discussing public business.
   H.   Executive Session Meetings. A quorum of the Village must be physically
present at any closed meeting. The Trustee participating remotely shall be
automatically entitled to participate in the Executive Session Meeting that
occurs at the public meeting, by video or audio conference, in the same manner
as at an open meeting if and only if the Trustee remotely participating is
physically in a room or area that is secure. The word "secure" is hereby
defined as an environment in which the Trustee who is participating remotely
believes is private so that the conversations that occur are not subject to
disclosure to anyone other than those who are participating, either personally
or remotely, at the Executive Session. In the absence of such security, the
Trustee remotely attending the public session may not attend the Executive
Session. (Ord. 1331, 12-3-2019)
CHAPTER 8
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDING AND ZONING
SECTION:
1-8-1: Department Created
1-8-2: Building Inspector
1-8-3: Employees
1-8-4: Stop Work Orders
1-8-5: Entry Powers
1-8-6: Appeals
1-8-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
The department of building and zoning is hereby created, and the official in
charge thereof shall be known as the building inspector. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010;
amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-2: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Appointment And Salary: The building inspector shall be appointed by
the village president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
The building inspector's salary shall be determined by the board of trustees as
set from time to time.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The building inspector shall have all those powers
set forth within the adopted building standards provided in this code and any
other applicable laws and regulations and shall report to the village president
unless otherwise directed by the board of trustees. The building inspector
shall further carry out all duties specified by the board of trustees. (Ord.
1246, 1-5-2010)
1-8-3: EMPLOYEES:
As part of the department of building and zoning, the village may employ an
individual to assist with issues related to maintenance of the village
infrastructure, including water issues, parks, maintaining pumping equipment,
handling related repairs and other duties assigned. The compensation of this
employee shall be determined by the board of trustees as set from time to time.
(Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
1-8-4: STOP WORK ORDERS:
The building inspector shall have the power to order all work stopped on
construction, alteration, or repair of buildings in the village when the work
is being done in violation of any provision of any ordinance relating thereto.
Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of an order except on the written
permission of the building inspector. However, if the stop order is an oral
one, it shall be followed by a written stop order within twelve (12) hours. The
written stop order may be served by any employee of the village. (Ord. 1246, 1-
5-2010)
1-8-5: ENTRY POWERS:
   A.   Whenever any officer or employee of the village is authorized to enter
any building or premises for the purpose of making an inspection to enforce any
ordinance, the officer or employee may enter such building or premises at all
reasonable times to inspect the same; provided, that the officer or employee
shall effect entry in the manner provided in subsection B of this section,
except in emergency situations, or when consent of the person having charge or
control of such building or premises has been otherwise obtained.
   B.   If the building or premises to be inspected is occupied, the authorized
officer or employee shall first present proper credentials and demand entry,
and if such building or premises is unoccupied, the officer or employee shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having
charge or control of the building or premises and demand entry. If consent to
such entry is not given, the authorized officer or employee shall have recourse
to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
1-8-6: APPEALS:
In accordance with section 113 of the international building code, Appeals Of
Orders, decisions or determinations made by the building inspector relating to
application and interpretation of the international building code shall be
heard by the zoning board of appeals as provided in this code. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-
2010; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: Ethics Advisor
1-9-3: Ethics Commission
1-9-4: Prohibited Political Activities
1-9-5: Gifts
1-9-6: Complaint Procedure
1-9-7: Penalties
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given the
definitions set out in this section:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action;
b) relating to collective bargaining; or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or credited
to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement imposed as
a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this chapter, does
not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, "compensated
time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate, in whole or in part, for time worked in excess of the minimum
work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the election code 1 .
EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Hudson, whether on a full time or
part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: The village of Hudson.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee. The value of a gift may be further defined by rules
adopted by the ethics commission.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: a)
compensation for employment; b) service credit toward pension benefits; and c)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action; b) relating to collective bargaining; or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer; or 2) by an employee; or
3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer; or 2) with
an employee; or 3) with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer; or 2) by an employee;
or 3) by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee; or
   E.   Is an agent of, a spouse of, or an immediate family member who is a
"prohibited source". (Ord. 1205, 5-4-2004; amd. 2016 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-9-2: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   Position Created: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the village
board, shall designate an ethics advisor for the village.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The duties of the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or
employee of the village unless the position has been created as an office by
the village.
      2.   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the village. (Ord. 1205, 5-4-
2004)
1-9-3: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   Created; Appointment; Restrictions: There is hereby created a
commission to be known as the ethics commission of the village of Hudson. The
commission shall be comprised of three (3) members appointed by the mayor, with
the advice and consent of the village board. No person shall be appointed as a
member of the commission who is related, either by blood or by marriage up to
the degree of first cousin, to any elected officer of the village. (Ord. 1205,
5-4-2004; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Terms Of Office: At the first meeting of the commission, the initial
appointees shall draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2)
commissioners shall serve two (2) year terms, and the third commissioner shall
serve a one year term. Thereafter, all commissioners shall be appointed to two
(2) year terms. Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
   C.   Organization: At the first meeting of the commission, the commissioners
shall choose a chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be held at the
call of the chairperson or any two (2) commissioners. A quorum shall consist of
two (2) commissioners, and official action by the commission shall require the
affirmative vote of two (2) members.
   D.   Removals And Vacancies: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the
village board, may remove a commissioner in case of incompetency, neglect of
duty or malfeasance in office after service on the commissioner by certified
mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the written charges against the
commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard in person or by
counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice. Vacancies shall be filled in
the same manner as original appointments.
   E.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The commission shall have the following powers and duties:
         a.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of
its duties and the exercise of its powers.
         b.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with subsection
1-9-7C of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-9-4 or 1-9-5 of this chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
         c.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
         d.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the
production of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the
obligation of all officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the
commission during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to
cooperate with requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for
discipline or discharge.
      2.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter. (Ord. 1205, 5-4-2004)
1-9-4: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined in section
1-9-1 of this chapter.
   B.   No officer or employee shall intentionally use any property or
resources of the village in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   C.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer or employee's duties; 2) as a condition of employment; or
3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time
off).
   D.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   E.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that shall be undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary
basis which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   F.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position, the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 1205, 5-4-2004)
1-9-5: GIFTS:
   A.   Gift Ban: Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as defined in section
1-9-1 of this chapter, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No
prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this
section.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any:
            (1)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the election code;
or
            (2)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of
a political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            (1)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            (2)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            (3)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purposes of this subsection B1h, "catered"
means food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are
delivered by any means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this subsection B1j, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an
officer or employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental
gift" means any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee
of another governmental entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection B is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 1205, 5-4-2004)
1-9-6: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Complaints: Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter
shall be filed with the ethics commission.
   B.   Notice Of Complaint: Within three (3) business days after the receipt
of a complaint, the commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a notice to the respondent that a complaint has been filed against
him or her and a copy of the complaint. The commission shall send by certified
mail, return receipt requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint
to the complainant within three (3) business days after receipt by the
commission. The notices to the respondent and the complainant shall also advise
them of the date, time, and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency
of the complaint and to establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
   C.   Review Of Complaint; Decision On Validity:
      1.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the open meetings act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint.
      2.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-9-5 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
village board to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint be
adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege a
violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public.
      3.   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-9-4 of this chapter, then the commission shall notify in writing the attorney
designated by the village board to prosecute such actions and shall transmit to
the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the custody of the
commission concerning the alleged violation.
   D.   Hearing: On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48)
hours' public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on
the complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony
and evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
open meetings act.
   E.   Decisions And Recommendations: Within thirty (30) days after the date
the hearing or any recessed hearing is concluded, the commission shall either:
1) dismiss the complaint; or 2) issue a recommendation for discipline to the
alleged violator and to the mayor or other officer having authority to
discipline the officer or employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or
both. The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline,
and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
   F.   Demand Of Public Hearing:
      1.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine.
      2.   Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand, the commission
shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least forty eight (48)
hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days thereafter, the
commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the alleged violator
and to the mayor or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
   G.   Complaints Filed Near Election Dates: If a complaint is filed during
the sixty (60) days preceding the date of any election at which the respondent
is a candidate, the commission shall render its decision as required under
subsection E of this section within seven (7) days after the complaint is
filed, and during the seven (7) days preceding that election, the commission
shall render such decision before the date of that election, if possible.
   H.   Time Limit For Filing Complaint: A complaint alleging the violation of
this chapter must be filed within one year after the alleged violation. (Ord.
1205, 5-4-2004)
1-9-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations of Section
1-9-4 :
      1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-9-4  of this chapter may be punishable by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      2.   A violation of section
1-9-4  of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the village by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   B.   Violations of Section
1-9-5 :
      1.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-9-5  of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
      2.   A violation of section
1-9-5  of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the village, or, if an ethics commission has been created, by the
commission through the designated administrative procedure.
   C.   Intentional False Reports: Any person who intentionally makes a false
report alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter to the local
enforcement authorities, the state's attorney or any other law enforcement
official may be punishable by a term of incarceration in a penal institution
other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty
four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   Additional Enforcement: In addition to any other penalty that may be
applicable, whether criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally
violates any provision of section
1-9-4  or
1-9-5  of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 1205, 5-4-
2004; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
TITLE 2
TAX REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Short Title
2-1-2: Scope; Interpretation Of Provisions
2-1-3: Definitions
2-1-4: Notice Requirements
2-1-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
2-1-6: Application Of Tax Payments
2-1-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
2-1-8: Audit Procedure
2-1-9: Protests And Hearings
2-1-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
2-1-11: Installment Contracts
2-1-12: Statute Of Limitations
2-1-13: Voluntary Disclosure
2-1-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
2-1-15: Review Of Liens
2-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
2-1-2: SCOPE; INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Interpretation: This chapter shall be liberally construed and
administered to supplement all of the village tax ordinances. To the extent
that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter,
this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
2-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect hereto. The exercise of such authority by the local
tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village, not an agency or department
of the state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property
under the property tax code or fees collected by the village.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Hudson, Illinois. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
2-1-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   A.   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   B.   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable
U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to the
village, with adequate postage prepaid. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
2-1-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
2-1-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four (4) years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund
of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person
who has not paid the amounts directly to the village. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001;
amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator, in
writing, a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-
2001)
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of nine percent (9.0%) per annum, based
on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days
elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund
check or the grant of a credit. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice Of Request: Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any
locally administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this
chapter; however, the notice for audit must clearly identify who will be
conducting the audit. For audits being conducted by a third party provider, the
village must provide written authorization for the third party provider to
review the books and records of the taxpayer. No contact may be made by the
third party provider until the village authorization is received by the
taxpayer. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   C.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
(Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
      3.   The auditor must sign a confidentiality agreement upon request by
the taxpayer. Upon completion of the audit, the village must issue an audit
closure report to the taxpayer with the results of the audit. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-
2001; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   E.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village's determination of the amount of overpayment. (Ord. 1183,
2-6-2001)
   F.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, then upon request of the village, the
audit information must be given to any unit of local government that may be
affected by an overpayment. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-9: PROTESTS AND HEARINGS:
   A.   Protests:
      1.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
         a.   The reason for the assessment;
         b.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         c.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         d.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund
and collection process.
      2.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination
and assessment.
      3.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      4.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment
shall become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
      5.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under subsection A of this section, the local
tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
2-1-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be nine
percent (9.0%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365)
days and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-
2001)
2-1-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
2-1-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001;
amd. 2016 Code)
2-1-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 1183, 2-6-2001)
2-1-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
1183, 2-6-2001)
CHAPTER 2
SIMPLIFIED TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
2-2-1: Short Title; Tax Is Additional
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: Tax Imposed; Exemptions
2-2-4: Collection And Remittance Of Tax
2-2-5: Penalties
2-2-1: SHORT TITLE; TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the VILLAGE OF HUDSON SIMPLIFIED
TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX ORDINANCE. The tax imposed by this chapter shall be
known as the "telecommunications tax" and is imposed in addition to all other
taxes imposed by the village of Hudson, the state of Illinois, or any other
municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof. (Ord. 1194, 8-6-2002;
amd. 2016 Code)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
When any words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have the meanings
or construction ascribed them in 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 636/5-1 et seq.
(hereinafter "the act"). (Ord. 1194, 8-6-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
2-2-3: TAX IMPOSED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Rate: Beginning on the effective date hereof, a tax is
hereby imposed upon:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating or receiving in the village
intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent (6%) of the
gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer
and charged to a service address in the village. To prevent actual multivillage
taxation of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this
subsection A1, any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in
another municipality on that event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax
enacted pursuant to or authorized by this subsection A1 to the extent of the
amount of the tax properly due and paid in the village that was not previously
allowed as a credit against any other municipal tax; and
      2.   The act or privilege of originating or receiving in the village
interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent (6%) of the
gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer
and charged to a service address in the village. To prevent actual multistate
taxation of the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this
subsection A2, any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a municipal
tax in another state on the same event shall be allowed a credit against the
tax authorized by this subsection A2 to the extent of the amount of such
municipal tax properly due and paid in such other state which was not
previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in this
state. (Ord. 1194, 8-6-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Exemptions From Tax:
      1.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on any act or
privilege to the extent that such act or privilege may not, under the
constitution or statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by the village.
      2.   Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of or integrated into end to end
telecommunications service are sales for resale and are not subject to the tax
imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 1194, 8-6-2002)
2-2-4: COLLECTION AND REMITTANCE OF TAX:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected and remitted to the village
as provided by the act. (Ord. 1194, 8-6-2002)
2-2-5: PENALTIES:
Any retailer or taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1194,
8-6-2002; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 3
GAS UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
2-3-1: Definitions
2-3-2: Tax Imposed; Rate
2-3-3: Effective Date Of Tax
2-3-4: Exemptions
2-3-5: Tax Is Additional
2-3-6: Tax Remittance And Return
2-3-7: Credit For Erroneous Payments
2-3-8: Statute Of Limitations
2-3-9: Violation; Penalties
2-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, as the
case may be; and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the service, produce, or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever; provided, however that
"gross receipts" shall not include any amounts specifically excluded from the
definition of gross receipts in section
8-11-2(d) of the Illinois municipal code.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation, the state or any of its political subdivisions, any
state university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other
representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 1198, 12-3-2002)
2-3-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the business of distributing,
supplying, furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the
corporate limits of the village of Hudson (the "village"), and not for resale,
at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 1198,
12-3-2002)
2-3-3: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The tax provided for herein shall be effective as to the gross receipts
actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after December 1, 2002.
(Ord. 1198, 12-3-2002)
2-3-4: EXEMPTIONS:
No tax is imposed by this chapter with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
the state of Illinois (the "state") or any political subdivision thereof; nor
shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
chapter for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the "municipal retailers' occupation tax act" authorized by
section
8-11-1.3 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 1198, 12-3-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
2-3-5: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or
services furnished to the village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use
of its streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereon, or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes, or other equipment used
in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (Ord. 1198, 12-3-2002)
2-3-6: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   The tax provided in this chapter shall be based on the "gross
receipts", as defined in section
2-3-1 of this chapter, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or
after December 1, 2002.
   B.   On or before January 1, 2003, each taxpayer shall make a return to the
village treasurer for the month of December 2002, stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business.
      3.   His gross receipts during the month upon the basis of which the tax
is imposed.
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer shall make a
like return to the village treasurer for a corresponding one month period.
   C.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the village treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided, that in collection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he
so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 1198, 12-3-2002)
2-3-7: CREDIT FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 1198, 12-3-
2002)
2-3-8: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 1198, 12-3-2002)
2-3-9: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who willfully violates any other provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of
tax due. (Ord. 1198, 12-3-2002; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX
SECTION:
2-4-1: Statute Authority
2-4-2: Definitions
2-4-3: Tax Imposed; Rates
2-4-4: Exemptions
2-4-5: Tax Is Additional
2-4-6: Collection Of Tax
2-4-7: Tax Remittance And Return
2-4-8: Credits For Erroneous Payments
2-4-9: Books And Records
2-4-10: Statute Of Limitations
2-4-11: Penalties
2-4-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to statutory authority conferred by section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
2-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a contrary definition is provided or evident, the words and terms used
in this chapter shall have the meanings provided in section
8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2-4-3: TAX IMPOSED; RATES:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
Amount Of Electricity Used Or Consumed In A Price Per Kilowatt Hour (Cents)
Month
Amount Of Electricity Used Or Consumed In A  Price Per Kilowatt Hour (Cents)
Month
For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours           $0.5493
For the next  48,000 kilowatt hours          0.3602
For the next  50,000 kilowatt hours          0.3242
For the next  400,000 kilowatt hours         0.3152
For the next  500,000 kilowatt hours         0.3062
For the next  2,000,000 kilowatt hours       0.2881
For the next  2,000,000 kilowatt hours       0.2836
For the next  5,000,000 kilowatt hours       0.2791
For the next  10,000,000 kilowatt hours      0.2746
Electricity in excess of 20,000,000 kilowatt 0.2701
hours
 
(Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
2-4-4: EXEMPTIONS:
None of the taxes authorized by this chapter may be imposed with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the
privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made the subject of taxation by this state or any political subdivision hereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling or transmitting electricity, or engaged in the business
of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject
to taxation under the provisions of this chapter for those transactions that
are or may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the municipal
retailers' occupation tax act as authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
8-11-1.3; nor shall any tax authorized by this chapter be imposed upon any
person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in
like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the
same class in the village, whether privately or municipally owned or operated,
or exercising the same privilege within the village. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002;
amd. 2016 Code)
2-4-5: TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
The tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
2-4-6: COLLECTION OF TAX:
The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the purchaser by the
person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and, if unpaid, is
recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this chapter and any
such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a debt
owed to the village by such person delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such
tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons delivering
electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount
equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person delivering
electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers,
preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the
village upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the
tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax
directly to the village in the manner prescribed by the village. Persons
delivering electricity shall file returns pursuant to this chapter at least
monthly and shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the village the
amount of the tax due pursuant to this chapter. Persons delivering electricity
shall include in all returns detailed information required by the village
treasurer. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
2-4-7: TAX REMITTANCE AND RETURN:
   A.   On or before the last day of each month, each deliverer of electricity
and each taxpayer who has not paid the tax imposed by this chapter to a person
delivering electricity as set forth in this chapter and who is not otherwise
exempted from paying such tax shall make a return to the village treasurer for
the preceding month stating:
      1.   His name.
      2.   His principal place of business. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
      3.   His kilowatt hour usage during the month upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
      4.   Amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   B.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided shall, at the time of
making such return, pay to the village the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided, that a return filed by a deliverer of electricity may report and pay
an amount based upon his total billings of business subject to the tax during
the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any amounts previously
billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon any differences
between such billings, and the amount of tax actually remitted to the deliverer
of electricity. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
2-4-8: CREDITS FOR ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the taxpayer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-
2002)
2-4-9: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The village treasurer, or his authorized representative, may, upon reasonable
notice, examine the books and records of any taxpayer and deliverer of
electricity in order to determine compliance with this chapter and assure the
enforcement and collection of tax imposed. It shall be the duty of every
taxpayer and deliverer of electricity to keep accurate and complete books and
records which reflect the kilowatt hours of usage of electricity delivered and
consumed within the village by individual consumers. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
2-4-10: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002)
2-4-11: PENALTIES:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, pay the tax due, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who willfully violates any other provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and, in
addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. In addition to the foregoing, if for any reason
any tax is not paid when due, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of
tax due shall be added and collected, plus interest at the Illinois statutory
judgment interest rate. (Ord. 1199, 12-3-2002; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-1-1: State Regulations Adopted
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: License Required
3-1-4: Application For Liquor License
3-1-5: Prohibited Licensees
3-1-6: Term Of License And License Fee
3-1-7: Bond
3-1-8: License Classification
3-1-9: Nontransfer Of License Renewal Location; License Expiration Or
Termination
3-1-10: Licensed Premises
3-1-11: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-1-12: Prohibited Acts
3-1-13: Liability Of Licensee And Employer
3-1-14: Entertainment Permit
3-1-15: Video Gaming Authorized
3-1-16: Hearings Authorized
3-1-17: Properties Deemed A Nuisance
3-1-18: Penalty
3-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
All provisions of the Illinois liquor control act of 1934 1  as amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference, the same as if any such related
provisions not specifically set forth herein are set forth in full in this
chapter. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the words when used within this
chapter:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirit, wine, beer, ale, whiskey, gin, brandy, rum or any
other liquid containing more than one-half of one percent alcohol by volume fit
for human consumption.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water and includes, among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
HOURS: As used herein shall mean either Central Standard Time or Central
Daylight Time, whichever is in effect in McLean County.
MEMBER: Any member of the board of directors of a not for profit corporation or
limited liability corporation.
OFFICERS: Any designated officers of a corporation, not for profit corporation
or a limited liability company, including, but not limited to, president, vice
president, secretary and treasurer.
PERSON: Any natural person, corporation, trust or any other lawfully recognized
entity.
RETAIL SALE: Sale for human use or consumption and not for resale.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter for consideration including any sale
made by any person, including, but not limited to, a principal, proprietor,
agent, servant or employee.
SELL: The act of making a sale, receiving an order for the purpose of selling
or keeping with the intent to sell.
SHAREHOLDER: Any shareholder of a corporation owning five percent (5%) or more
of the stock in the corporation.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar including such beverages when
fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as defined by state law. (Ord.
1292, 11-1-2016)
3-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either by himself or his agent or any
person acting as an agent, barkeeper, clerk, servant or employee of another, to
sell or offer for sale at retail in the village of Hudson any alcoholic liquor
without first having obtained a license to do so as provided in this chapter.
It shall likewise be unlawful for any such person to sell or offer for sale any
alcoholic liquor in violation of the terms and conditions of such license.
(Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: Applications for any license under the terms of this chapter
shall be signed by the applicant, if an individual; partners, if a partnership;
or by a duly authorized agent of a corporation or limited liability company, if
a corporation or limited liability company. All signatures on the application
shall be verified and under oath. Applicants for a liquor license under this
chapter shall submit an application to the village on forms provided by the
village, along with a nonrefundable filing fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00). Additionally the applicant shall pay the village for the cost of any
and all fingerprinting required by the local liquor control commissioner in
order to examine the applicant. The application shall contain the following:
      1.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual. In the case of a partnership, the name, age and address of any
person who is entitled to share in the profits thereof. In the case of a
corporation, the name of the corporation, the date of incorporation, the state
of incorporation, copies of articles of incorporation, the names and addresses
of the officers, directors, shareholders and whether the corporation is
organized as a profit or a not for profit corporation or a limited liability
company, and if a not for profit corporation or limited liability company the
members thereof.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
      3.   The character of the business for which the license is intended and
whether food for human consumption is to be sold in such place of business.
      4.   The length of time that applicant has been in a business similar to
that for which a license is sought or in the case of a corporation, the date in
which its charter was issued.
      5.   An inventory of goods, wares, merchandise and equipment, on hand
solely for the purpose of the business for which the license is applied.
      6.   The location and description of the premises to be operated under
such license and photographs of the interior and exterior, kitchen and dining
area of such premises. In the event that the building is not constructed at the
time of the application, the plans of the building to be constructed certified
by a registered professional.
      7.   A statement whether the applicant has made similar application for a
similar license on premises other than that described in this application and
the disposition of each prior application.
      8.   The date and place of any conviction of crime of the applicant or if
a corporation or limited liability company, the date and place of any
conviction of a crime of any agent, officer, shareholder or member of said
corporation or limited liability company.
      9.   Whether a previous license issued to an applicant to sell alcoholic
liquor has been revoked by any state or any subdivision thereof, or by the
federal government with the date and place of such revocation and the reason
therefor.
      10.   A statement that the applicant is completely familiar with the
terms and provisions of this chapter, and the state of Illinois liquor control
act of 1934 1 .
      11.   A statement that the applicant is not disqualified from receiving a
liquor license by reason of any provision of a law of the state of Illinois or
this chapter.
      12.   A certificate of insurance issued by a reputable insurance carrier
insuring the business against dramshop liability under the dramshop laws of the
state of Illinois, said certificate to reflect liability insurance under said
act in amounts required under the act and be in effect during the term of any
license granted or renewed under this chapter.
      13.   The names and addresses of three (3) references within the village
who can attest to the applicant's character and reputation.
      14.   The name of the person or persons who will manage the business or
be the agent of the applicant and supervising the business operation and the
residence of said person or persons.
      15.   The identification of any public office held by the applicant; any
partner, if a partnership; any shareholder, if a corporation; any director or
member, if a limited liability company or not for profit corporation.
      16.   A statement that the applicant, its owners, and officers consent to
a background investigation, including fingerprinting, and agree to fully
cooperate with such investigation and agree to execute releases for the purpose
of obtaining relevant information from third parties in connection with said
investigation.
      17.   A statement whether or not the proposed location of the licensed
premises is within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital,
home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children,
or any military or naval station.
      18.   A statement whether the applicant or any owner or member of the
applicant is the owner of the premises for which a license is sought and if not
then the name of the landlord and a copy of the lease valid for the term of the
license.
   B.   Examination Of Applicant: The local liquor control commissioner shall
examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a liquor license.
The local liquor control commissioner may, but is not required to, hold a
public hearing on any application. Notice shall be provided of any public
hearing by posting notice of the time, date and location of the hearing at the
village hall and by publication in a newspaper published in the village or in
general circulation in the village. The local liquor control commissioner shall
receive and may require such evidence as he may deem necessary to make findings
based on the standards contained in this chapter for the issuance of a liquor
license. Within a reasonable time after examining the applicant and receiving
such evidence as he determines necessary, the local liquor control commissioner
shall issue a written decision stating whether or not a license will be issued
to the applicant and any conditions imposed on the applicant in connection with
the license. If the application is denied, the local liquor control
commissioner shall state the reasons for denial based on the standards
contained in this chapter.
   C.   Standards For Issuance Of A License: The local liquor control
commissioner may deny a liquor license if he finds one or more of the
following:
      1.   The issuance of the license would not be in the best interest of the
village.
      2.   The issuance of the license would be detrimental to the general
welfare.
      3.   The application does not contain all of the information, supporting
documents and fees required under this chapter.
      4.   The issuance of the license would be a violation of any law
including this chapter.
      5.   The applicant does not have sufficient financial assets to maintain
the proposed liquor establishment.
      6.   The applicant or in the case of a corporation or limited liability
company, any officer, shareholder or member has been convicted of a felony and
has not been adequately rehabilitated.
      7.   The issuance of the license can reasonably be expected to create
excessive noise, traffic, parking or litter problems.
      8.   The applicant or any officer, shareholder or member of the applicant
has a history of problems with regard to violations of health regulations, laws
and ordinances at a prior establishment owned or managed by the applicant,
officer, shareholder or member.
      9.   The proposed licensed premises does not meet village codes.
      10.   The issuance of the license can reasonably be expected to create a
nuisance.
      11.   The applicant or any officer, shareholder or member of the
applicant has previously had a liquor license revoked or suspended in this or
any other state or jurisdiction.
      12.   The proposed licensed premises does not meet McLean County health
codes.
      13.   In determining whether or not an applicant meets the above
standards, the local liquor control commissioner may impose reasonable
conditions on the granting of the license and operation of the business.
Failure of the applicant/licensee at any time to adhere or perform such
conditions shall be considered a violation of this chapter and grounds to
suspend or revoke the license. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
3-1-5: PROHIBITED LICENSEES:
   A.   No license shall be issued or reissued to any applicant, which
applicant including any partner, officer, shareholder, managing agent or
member, who is:
      1.   A person not twenty one (21) years old or who is under any legal
disability.
      2.   A person who is not a resident of the village in which the premises
covered by the license are located.
      3.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
      4.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      5.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or
state law, unless the Commission determines that such person will not be
impaired by the conviction in engaging in the licensed practice after
considering matters set forth in such person’s application in accordance with
this Act and the commission’s investigation.
      6.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution
or keeping a place juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that involves
keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution that
involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution.
      7.   A person who has been convicted of pandering.
      8.   A person whose license issued under this Act has been revoked for
cause.
      9.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
      10.   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any
limited partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited
partner interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the political
subdivision, unless residency is required by local ordinance.
      11.   A corporation, or limited liability company, if any member,
officer, manager, or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders
owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the village.
      12.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications as
required of the licensee.
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
has forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges of any such
violation.
      14.   Any applicant who does not beneficially, own the premises for which
a license is sought or who does not have a lease thereon for the full period
for which the license is to be issued.
      15.   Any person, partnership or corporation if the applicant or any
partner, shareholder, director or officer is a law enforcing public officer, a
mayor, alderman or member of a city council or commission or president of any
village board, chairman, or a member of a county board of supervisors or holds
any other public office prohibited under the Illinois liquor control act of
1934.
      16.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      17.   Any person who fails to furnish or falsely furnishes information or
who fails to make or falsely makes statements required in the application for a
license.
      18.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed
by any of subsections (a) (3) through (a) (11) of Section 28-1 of, the Criminal
Code of 1961 or the Criminal Code of 2012, or as proscribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
      19.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the Federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued
a license under the Raffles and Poker Runs Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and
Jar Games Act.
      20.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in subsection (a) of Section 6-
21 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934.
      21.   A person who is licensed by any licensing authority as a
manufacturer of beer, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of beer, having any
legal, equitable, or beneficial interest, directly or indirectly, in a person
licensed in this State as a distributor or importing distributor. For purposes
of this paragraph, a person who is licensed by any licensing authority as a
"manufacturer of beer" shall also mean a brewer and a non-resident dealer who
is also a manufacturer of beer, including a partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or
any other form of business enterprise licensed as a manufacturer of beer.
      22.   A person who is licensed in this State as a distributor or
importing distributor, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise licensed in this State as a distributor or
importing distributor having any legal, equitable, or beneficial interest,
directly or indirectly, in a person licensed as a manufacturer of beer by any
licensing authority, or any partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate, or agent thereof, or any other
form of business enterprise, except for a person who owns, more than 5% of the
outstanding shares of a manufacturer of beer whose shares are publicly traded
on an exchange within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. For
the purposes of this paragraph (20), a person who is licensed by any licensing
authority as a "manufacturer of beer" shall also mean a brewer and a non-
resident dealer who is also a manufacturer of beer, including a partnership,
corporation, limited liability company, or trust or any subsidiary, affiliate,
or agent thereof, or any other form of business enterprise licensed as a
manufacturer of beer. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016; amd. Ord. 1327, 9-3-2019)
3-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE AND LICENSE FEE:
Each liquor license issued under this chapter shall terminate on June 30 next
following its issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to
the full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance
of the license. All fees due and owing to the Village of Hudson in connection
with the issuance of a liquor license pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter shall be tendered in full upon application for the issuance of the
original license or for any renewal thereof. Licensees may not pay in
installments, quarterly or otherwise. No application for the issuance of a
license or renewal thereof shall be considered unless payment in full of the
license fee is tendered. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016; amd. Ord. 1327, 9-3-2019)
3-1-7: BOND:
   A.   Each applicant desiring a liquor license shall submit with the
application a bond to the village of Hudson in the penal sum of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) conditioned upon the faithful compliance with the terms and
conditions of the village liquor ordinance and the Illinois liquor control act
of 1934. Said bond shall be accompanied by evidence of surety on the bond. Such
surety to be a solvent surety company licensed to do business in the state of
Illinois and to be approved by the local liquor control commissioner. Said bond
shall further be conditioned upon the payment of any judgment for damages and
costs that may be recovered against said licensee in accordance with the laws
of the state of Illinois and the ordinances of the village.
   B.   A new bond shall be presented yearly at the time of the application for
a renewal of any license under the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-
2016)
3-1-8: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Classification: All licenses shall be and are hereby divided into
classes. It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic liquor or to operate a liquor
establishment in a manner inconsistent with the terms of the class of license
set forth herein. All license fees shall be due and payable at the time the
application for a license is filed or the application for a renewal:
      1.   Class A License: Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises and
shall also authorize the sale of alcoholic liquor in original package at retail
on the premises specified for consumption off said premises. The annual fee for
such license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The hours of operation
of a class A license shall be from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Monday through
Saturday to one o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day and from twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday.
      2.   Class B License: Class B licenses shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic liquor on the premises specified in packages or original containers
unopened at retail not to be consumed on such premises where sold, but to be
consumed off said premises. The hours of operation of a class B license shall
be from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Monday through Saturday to one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. the following day, and between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) P.M. and
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday. The annual fee for such license shall be
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      Notwithstanding the foregoing hours of operation any lawfully licensed
establishment open at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on January 1 of any year may
remain open until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on January 1. On years when December
31 falls on a Sunday any lawfully licensed establishment open at ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. on December 31 may remain open from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. the following day (January 1).
      3.   Class F License (Catering):
         a.   Class F licenses shall authorize the holder thereof to provide
catering services. Catering services includes the supplying, mixing, pouring or
serving of alcoholic liquor in conjunction with food and beverages at a
specifically identified event, provided the holder of a class F license may not
charge the person or entity for whom the catering services are being provided
more than the actual retail price of the alcoholic liquor provided by the class
F license holder. A class F license does not authorize the sale of alcohol at a
cash bar, but does authorize the following:
            (1)   The giving away of liquor;
            (2)   The dispensing of liquor;
            (3)   The providing of mix, ice, water or glasses for the purpose
of mixing drinks containing alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises;
            (4)   The pouring of liquor;
            (5)   The providing of setups containing alcoholic liquor; and
            (6)   The storage of any alcoholic liquor in connection with any of
the foregoing acts.
         b.   A class F catering license shall be event specific and the
applicant shall prior to catering any event in the village apply for a catering
license at least seven (7) working days prior to the event and pay a license
fee of zero dollars ($0.00) for the event. The applicant shall provide the
following information on the event permit application form provided by the
village:
            (1)   Location of the event;
            (2)   Estimated number of people expected to be in attendance;
            (3)   Name of person or organization sponsoring or holding the
event;
            (4)   Proof of dramshop insurance for the particular premises;
            (5)   Provisions on how the consumption of alcoholic liquor by
minors will be controlled and prohibited;
            (6)   The name and addresses of all employees and persons who will
be pouring, mixing or serving alcoholic beverages during the event;
            (7)   If the estimated number expected to attend the event exceeds
fifty (50) persons, information and adequate preparations for the provisions of
restrooms and parking facilities for the guests;
            (8)   All other information required of an applicant for a liquor
license in the village of Hudson unless otherwise waived by the local liquor
control commissioner.
         c.   An event specific class F catering license may be denied,
suspended or revoked for any of the following reasons:
            (1)   Required information is not provided on the permit
application;
            (2)   The application is not timely filed;
            (3)   A prior event sponsored by the applicant or licensee or
individual or entity or organization sponsor of the event violated one or more
village ordinances or caused a disturbance or a nuisance;
            (4)   A prior event catered by the class F catering applicant
violated village ordinances; and
            (5)   The local liquor control commissioner determines that the
provisions for parking, restrooms or the prevention of the delivery of
alcoholic liquor to underage persons are inadequate.
The decision of the local liquor control commissioner on an event specific
class F catering license application shall be final.
Prior to suspension or revocation of a class F license for a specifically
identified event the local liquor control commissioner shall provide the
licensee reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard. Given the limited
duration of an event specific class F license, the local liquor control
commissioner may act promptly to remedy any threat to life, health and safety.
(Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016; amd. Ord. 1327, 9-3-2019; Ord. 1329, 11-5-2019)
3-1-9: NONTRANSFER OF LICENSE RENEWAL LOCATION; LICENSE EXPIRATION OR
TERMINATION:
   A.   Transfer Of License Prohibited: No license shall be transferable. Any
license issued under the terms of this chapter shall license only the
applicant. If there shall be any change from those named in the application,
the license shall be null and void. Any license granted shall not be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable
voluntarily or involuntarily or subject to being encumbered or the subject
matter of any lien. Such license shall not descend by will or the laws of
intestate succession, but shall terminate upon the death of any licensee. The
trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee may continue the business of the
sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court and may exercise
the privileges of the insolvent or bankrupt license after such insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six (6)
months after the bankruptcy or insolvency of such license.
   B.   Renewal: Any licensee may renew the license at the expiration thereof,
provided the licensee is then qualified to receive a license and the premises
for which said renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose in the
same manner as required of any new applicant. All applications for renewal
shall be filed with the local liquor control commissioner no later than May 15
each year. Such applications for renewal shall be signed under oath by the
licensee and be accompanied with a zero dollar ($0.00) filing fee. The
application shall state whether or not there are any changes in the original
application and if so, list any changes. No liquor license shall be renewed
except upon approval of the local liquor control commissioner. At the time of
application for a renewal, the licensee shall also submit the required license
fee, proof of dramshop insurance and other supporting documents required by the
local liquor control commissioner. No license shall be renewed if the licensee
is delinquent in filing any tax returns or paying any amounts owed to the state
of Illinois until such returns are filed and all taxes owed are paid. No
license shall be renewed unless the applicant is qualified and the premises is
qualified and all conditions imposed on the grant of the original license have
been met or complied with and otherwise comply with this chapter and the
Illinois liquor control act of 1934. In the event the local liquor control
commissioner preliminarily determines that a license shall not be renewed, the
local liquor control commissioner shall provide notice and an opportunity to be
heard to such applicant for liquor license renewal. After hearing evidence
submitted by the applicant for liquor license renewal, the local liquor control
commissioner shall render a final decision in writing stating the reasons for
nonrenewal of the license.
   C.   Change Of Location: Any license granted hereunder shall permit the sale
of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon written permit to make such
change issued by the local liquor control commissioner. No change of location
shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper location for
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of this state and the terms
and provisions of this chapter.
   D.   License Expiration: If any license expires or is terminated in any
manner, said license shall cease to exist and the holder of the expired or
terminated license shall immediately cease the sale of alcoholic liquor. (Ord.
1292, 11-1-2016)
3-1-10: LICENSED PREMISES:
   A.   Compliance With Law: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or for the storage of such alcoholic liquor for such sale shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with the
laws of the state of Illinois and the ordinances and regulations of the village
of Hudson. The licensed premises shall at all times comply with all ordinances
and laws concerning the storage, preparation and sale of food for human
consumption.
   B.   Location Restrictions: No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church,
school other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for the
aged or indigent person or for veterans, their spouses or children, or any
military or naval station, provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to
hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale
at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within 100' of any church or school
where the church or school has been established within such 100' since the
issuance of the original license. In the case of a church the distance of one
hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the nearest part of any building used
for worship services or educational programs and not to property boundaries.
Not withstanding any other provision of this paragraph to the contrary, the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner may at his or her discretion grant an
exemption to the prohibitions in this paragraph.
   C.   Temporary Location: The local liquor control commissioner may authorize
a licensee to operate temporarily at a location other than the licensed
premises. Such permit shall be in writing, shall name the licensee, and shall
state the hours of operation permitted at the temporary location. No temporary
location shall be permitted unless the temporary location is a lawful location
for retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of the state and village
ordinances.
   D.   Municipal Property: The local liquor control commissioner may allow the
sale and consumption of alcoholic liquor on municipal property for limited
special events and celebrations subject to terms and conditions determined
appropriate to protect public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-
2016; amd. Ord. 1327, 9-3-2019)
3-1-11: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Designation; Purpose: The president of the village of Hudson board of
trustees shall be the local liquor control commissioner. The local liquor
control commissioner is charged with the administration and enforcement of the
appropriate and applicable provisions of the Illinois liquor control act, this
chapter and all other ordinances and regulations pertaining to the sale and
consumption of alcoholic liquor within the corporate limits of the village of
Hudson.
   B.   Powers, Duties And Functions: The local liquor control commissioner
shall have the following powers, duties and functions:
      1.   To receive applications for the issuance of licenses pursuant to
this chapter, the investigation of applicants and the granting or renewal of
liquor licenses provided herein;
      2.   To receive complaints from any citizen or person within the village
of Hudson, that any of the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance or
regulation relating to the sale, control or licensing of alcoholic liquor have
been or are being violated and to act upon such complaints in the manner
provided herein;
      3.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed pursuant to this chapter, to determine whether
or not any of the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance or
regulation relating to the sale, control or licensing of alcoholic liquor have
been or are being violated and to examine such premises of any such licensee
including the books, records or license of the licensee in connection
therewith;
      4.   To investigate the complaint from any citizen, person or law
enforcement officer and to conduct hearings on any alleged violation of this
chapter, examining or causing to be examined under oath complainants, licensees
and any other person or interested party in connection therewith. The
commissioner may examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any
licensee and may hear testimony and take proof as to the performance of the
licensee's duties and for such other purpose as the commissioner might find
necessary. The commissioner may issue subpoenas and compel the appearance and
testimony of any person in connection therewith;
      5.   To create a commission appointed by the commissioner that may assist
and advise the commissioner in the regulation and enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter;
      6.   To issue written reprimands, fine licensees in accordance with
section 7-5 of the Illinois liquor control act of 1934 as amended from time to
time and with the provisions of this chapter grant and order to suspend for not
more than thirty (30) days or revoke for any cause hereinafter set forth or
deny the renewal of a license, any and all liquor licenses issued to persons
for premises within the village if:
         a.   The licensee has violated any laws of the United States relating
to the sale of alcoholic liquor, any provisions of the Illinois liquor control
act of 1934, any provisions of this chapter and any applicable rules and
regulations adopted by the state of Illinois, the village board of trustees or
the commissioner.
         b.   Any licensee or other required party has made any false statement
as to a material fact in the application for any license, application for
change of ownership of any licensed premises or any request or renewal in
connection with the renewal of any license.
         c.   Evidence from the department of revenue or the Illinois liquor
control commission of any of the following violations of any tax administered
by the state of Illinois for: 1) failure to file a tax return; 2) the filing of
a fraudulent tax return; 3) failure to pay all or part of any tax or penalty
filing determined to be due; 4) failure to keep books and records; 5) failure
to secure and display a certificate or subcertificate of registration if
required; and 6) violations of any rule or regulation of the department
relating to the administration and enforcement of tax liability.
         d.   Permitting any violation of state law or village ordinance by any
person on the licensed premises.
         e.   Failure to use and maintain the licensed premises in compliance
with all codes and regulations, including, but not limited to, building,
plumbing, electrical, fire codes and county health ordinances and regulations.
         f.   Suspension or revocation of the licensee's license by the state
of Illinois.
         g.   Permitting any illegal gambling device or equipment to be located
on the licensed premises or permitting illegal gambling on the licensed
premises.
         h.   Failure to adhere or comply with any conditions imposed by the
local liquor control commissioner in connection with said license.
         i.   Failure to keep books and records, in compliance with general
accounting standards, of all financial transactions involving the licensed
business.
         j.   For any other reason allowed by law;
      7.   To cause the initiation of legal proceedings under the penalty
provisions of this chapter or the Illinois liquor control act;
      8.   To receive local license fees;
      9.   To notify the Illinois secretary of state whenever any club
incorporated under the general not for profit corporation act or a foreign
corporation conducting its affairs as a club under a certificate of authority
issued by the secretary of state has violated the Illinois liquor control act
or this chapter;
      10.   To notify the Illinois secretary of state of any convictions or
dispositions of court supervision for violation of section 6-20 of the Illinois
liquor control act or a similar provision of the village ordinance or
regulation;
      11.   To adopt such rules and regulations consistent with the provisions
of this chapter necessary to carry on the functions and duties of the
commissioner necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare of the people of the village and to take any and all action necessary
and incidental in furtherance of the duties of the commissioner set forth in
this chapter;
      12.   To issue temporary emergency orders regulating, restricting or
prohibiting the sale of alcoholic liquor whenever an emergency exists or is
reasonably anticipated; and
      13.   Pursuant to section 5/7-5 of the Illinois liquor control act, to
close a licensed premises for not more than seven (7) days if the local liquor
control commissioner has reason to believe that continued operation of a
licensed premises pending a hearing on suspension or revocation will
immediately threaten the welfare of the community. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016)
3-1-12: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   No licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years or to any intoxicated person or to any
person known to be a habitual drunkard.
   B.   No licensee shall sell or allow the consumption of alcoholic liquor
during times when the sale of alcoholic liquor is not allowed under the terms
of the license.
   C.   No licensee shall engage in, allow or permit anyone to commit gambling
in a licensed establishment, or allow an illegal gambling device on the
premises. Gambling and gambling device as used herein are defined in the same
manner as the terms are defined in the Illinois criminal code 1  as amended.
   D.   No licensee shall allow or permit riotous, disorderly, indecent or
offensive conduct of any kind in or about the licensed premises.
   E.   No licensee shall permit entertainment in or about a licensed premises
except pursuant to an entertainment license issued by the local liquor control
commissioner. As used herein "entertainment" means any live performance by any
person, whether or not such person is paid compensation by the licensee.
   F.   No licensee shall permit or allow any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years to consume any alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises. (Ord.
1292, 11-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/28 et seq., as amended.
3-1-13: LIABILITY OF LICENSEE AND EMPLOYER:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee and employer and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016)
3-1-14: ENTERTAINMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Authority: An entertainment permit shall authorize live
entertainment which may consist of, but shall not be limited to, talking,
reading, singing, posing, walking, dancing or wrestling. Entertainment may
include, but shall not be limited to, the personal appearance of amateur or
professional entertainers without regard to whether such person is paid any
compensation by the liquor licensee.
   B.   Application; Duration: Any licensee desiring an entertainment permit
shall file an application with the local liquor control commissioner and
generally describe the type of entertainment to be provided at the licensed
premises. An entertainment permit may be issued for a specific event or may be
issued for the term of the liquor license.
   C.   Prohibited Conduct: It shall be unlawful for any liquor licensee, agent
or employee to provide, suffer or permit any entertainment within a liquor
establishment which exposes to public view:
      1.   Male or female genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
      2.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof; and
      3.   The use of tassels, pasties, stars or transparent material for
coverage of the above listed body parts. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016)
3-1-15: VIDEO GAMING AUTHORIZED:
Video gaming terminals may be operated in licensed establishments, as defined
by and to the extent permitted by the Illinois video gaming act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., and the regulations of the Illinois gaming
board. The owner of a licensed establishment where video gaming terminals are
operated shall conspicuously post the license for such video gaming terminals
in view of the public and provide written notice to the village clerk that it
is a licensed establishment. Revocation of any establishment license issued by
the Illinois gaming board shall provide grounds for the revocation of the
licensed establishment's liquor license. The local liquor control commissioner
shall notify the Illinois gaming board of any revocation or suspension of a
liquor license for any licensed establishment with video gaming terminals. In
addition to any other fee set forth in this Chapter, holders of a liquor
license issued by the Village of Hudson shall pay a fee of twenty-five ($25.00)
per video gaming terminal annually which payment shall be tendered in full at
the time an application for the issuance for an original liquor license or for
a renewal thereof is submitted to the Village of Hudson. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016;
amd. Ord. 1327, 9-3-2019)
3-1-16: HEARINGS AUTHORIZED:
For purposes of administrating and enforcing the provisions of this chapter and
proposing amendments thereto to the board of trustees, the local liquor control
commissioner may in his discretion hold public hearings at any time within the
village concerning any matters embraced or which may be embraced within this
chapter.
   A.   Public Hearings For License Suspension, Revocation Or Fines Against The
Licensee: Except as otherwise provided for a class F catering license for a
specifically identified event, a liquor license may be revoked or suspended, a
fine imposed or a reprimand issued by the local liquor control commissioner
only after a public hearing as follows:
      1.   No license shall be revoked or suspended, nor shall a fine be
imposed or a reprimand issued except after a public hearing with a three (3)
day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend. It shall be deemed sufficient notice if the notice is sent
by regular mail to the licensee's resident agent. A public hearing may be held
by the local liquor control commissioner or by a hearing officer appointed by
the local liquor control commissioner. If a hearing officer is used, the
hearing officer shall present a written report and recommendation to the local
liquor control commissioner within five (5) days after the public hearing.
      2.   Hearing procedures:
         a.   The licensee shall at all times be afforded due process including
the right to subpoena witnesses in his own behalf, the right to hear witnesses
and evidence given against him, the right to counsel, the right to cross
examination, and the right to demand a written specification of the charges
against him in advance of the hearing.
         b.   Witnesses shall be sworn and in all other respects the hearing
shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall not apply including rules
prohibiting hearsay.
         c.   A certified court reporter shall be at the public hearing, take
the complete record of all evidence, testimony and comments and upon
notification by the local liquor control commissioner, prepare a certified
official record of the proceedings suitable for filing with the state liquor
control commission. All reviews of the local liquor control commissioner shall
be "on the record" so that the state liquor control commission scope of review
is limited to the following three (3) questions: 1) whether the local liquor
control commissioner has proceeded in the manner provided by law; 2) whether
the order is supported by the findings; and 3) whether the findings are
supported by substantial evidence in light of the whole record. The cost in
taking and preparing the certified official record of the proceedings shall be
shared equally between the local liquor control commissioner and the licensee
with payment of the licensee's share to be made at or before the time the local
liquor control commissioner requests preparation of the certified official
record of the proceedings.
      3.   No person shall make a false statement in any public hearing before
the local liquor control commissioner or the hearing officer.
   B.   Reprimands, Fines, Suspensions Or Revocation: Within five (5) days
after a public hearing has concluded, the local liquor control commissioner
shall enter an order imposing a suspension, fine, revocation or reprimand
against the licensee and state the reason or reasons for such determination and
the amount of the fine, the period of suspension, the terms of the reprimand or
that the license has been revoked and shall serve a copy of such order within
five (5) days upon the licensee.
      1.   If a reprimand is imposed a copy of the reprimand shall be made a
part of the liquor licensee's file with the village and be preserved by the
village clerk. The reprimand may impose such conditions and restrictions on the
licensee to prevent a similar violation by the licensee in the future.
      2.   Any fine imposed against a licensee shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve (12) month period,
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a
twelve (12) month period and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for
a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day in
which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more
than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of his license. Fines shall be payable in the manner
indicated in the order and failure to pay any fine as ordered may result in the
license being summarily suspended or revoked by the liquor commissioner. Any
fine not paid, may be collected in any manner as provided by law for a debt due
to the municipality. It may also constitute a violation of this chapter.
      3.   Any suspension of a liquor license shall not exceed thirty (30)
days.
      4.   An order revoking a license shall take effect from the entry of the
order and the licensee shall immediately upon notice surrender the liquor
license to the village, unless the licensee appeals the decision to the state
liquor control commission.
      5.   In making the determination to reprimand, fine, suspend or revoke or
in determining the amount of a fine imposed or the length of a suspension
imposed, the local liquor control commissioner may consider any of the
following:
         a.   The nature of the violation;
         b.   The record of the licensee with regard to violations;
         c.   Past action of the commissioner in comparable situations; and
         d.   The factual situation and circumstances surrounding the
violation.
   C.   The Effect Of Revocation: When any license shall have been revoked for
cause no license shall be granted to any person for the period of one year
thereafter for the sale of alcoholic liquor from the premises described in the
revoked license, unless the revocation order has been vacated or unless the
revocation order was entered as to the licensee only.
   D.   Appeal To State Liquor Commission: The licensee after notice of the
order imposed by the local liquor control commissioner shall have the right,
according to law, within a twenty (20) day period after receipt of such order
to appeal the order to the state liquor control commission. If the licensee
files an appeal with the state liquor control commission and has no prior
suspension or revocation, the licensee may continue to operate until the state
liquor control commission has ruled on the licensee's appeal of the
commissioner's order. If the licensee has a prior suspension or revocation
within the proceeding twelve (12) month period, the licensee shall cease the
sale of alcoholic liquor from the licensed premises pending the appeal. (Ord.
1292, 11-1-2016)
3-1-17: PROPERTIES DEEMED A NUISANCE:
Every lot, parcel or tract of land and every building, structure,
establishment, or place whatsoever together with all furniture, fixtures,
ornaments and machinery located therein, where there shall be conducted any
unlawful sale of alcoholic liquor or in any manner used in violation of the
provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall
be abated as provided by the laws of the state of Illinois and the ordinances
of the village of Hudson for the abatement of public nuisances. (Ord. 1292, 11-
1-2016)
3-1-18: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, corporation or limited liability company violating any
provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day on which a
violation occurs or continues. Provided, however, licensees shall be subject to
fine by order of the local liquor control commissioner in the amounts as
provided herein and as set forth in section 7-5 of Illinois liquor control act
of 1934. (Ord. 1292, 11-1-2016; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLING, SOLICITING AND ADVERTISING
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Photo Identification And Permit Required; Fee
3-2-3: Criminal Background Check
3-2-4: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
3-2-5: Prohibitions
3-2-6: Records Kept
3-2-7: Revocation Of Permit
3-2-8: Appeals
3-2-9: Exemptions From Provisions
3-2-10: Penalties
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words, as used herein, shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto:
PERMITTED SOLICITOR: Any person who has obtained a valid permit as hereinafter
provided, and which permit is in the possession of the solicitor on his or her
person while engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITING OR PEDDLING: Means and includes any one or more of the following
activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders, including distribution of commercial
pamphlets, for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, and
services of any kind, character or description whatsoever, for any kind of
consideration whatsoever; or
   B.   Seeking to sell goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, and services of
any kind, character or description whatsoever, for any kind of consideration
whatsoever, that the seller carries with him as he goes from house to house or
place to place or along or on the streets of the Village; or
   C.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   D.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   E.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization or corporation. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016
Code)
3-2-2: PHOTO IDENTIFICATION AND PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
All peddlers and solicitors operating within the Village corporate limits shall
be required to possess a valid photo card and permit information. The
application for a permit shall be filed with the Chief of Police or his
designee on a form provided by the Police Department that will include the
name, permanent address, and phone number of the applicant, the nature of the
applicant's business, the proposed hours of operation and dates of operation
for conducting business in the Village, and the name, address and phone number
of the applicant's employer or principal corporation or firm for whom the
applicant is working. At the time of making such application, the applicant
shall also submit payment, in cash, to the Village Police Department of a fee
of fifty dollars ($50.00) per week for each week that such applicant shall be
conducting business in the Village. The fifty dollar ($50.00) permit fee is
required for every solicitor going door to door. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011;
amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-3: CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECK:
Prior to issuing a peddler/solicitor permit to the applicant, the Chief of
Police, or his designee, will do a criminal background check to ensure the
individual requesting permission to peddle or solicit within the Village does
not have a criminal history that would cause concern for the safety of the
Village residents and their personal property. Should the applicant have prior
convictions for larceny, burglary or theft of any kind, the application shall
be denied. Said background check shall be done at a time that it is convenient
to the Police Department. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.   Issuance: Once an applicant is approved to peddle or solicit and the
fee for the permit is paid, the Police Department, within two (2) business days
(Monday through Friday) will issue an identification card, containing the
approved solicitor's photo, name, phone number, company in which he/she
represents, and name and phone number for said company. The provided
identification card shall be carried at all times when peddling/soliciting
within the Village and, upon request, shall be displayed to any resident that
has been approached for the purpose of peddling or soliciting.
   B.   Denial: If the Chief of Police, or an authorized agent, determines and
finds that the applicant has not met one or more of the conditions of this
chapter, the Chief of Police, or any authorized agent, shall deny issuance of
the solicitor's permit and shall give written notification of such denial to
the applicant. Such notice shall be delivered in person or by U.S. mail
addressed to the residence address set forth in the permit application, stating
the action and the reason supporting such action. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011)
3-2-5: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Uninvited Soliciting: All peddlers or solicitors shall be informed that
should any resident request them to leave the property that they inhabit, the
peddler/solicitor must immediately leave the property without delay. Also,
should any resident clearly display a sign or notice that no peddlers or
solicitors are welcome at said residence, the peddlers/solicitors would be in
violation of this chapter and be subject to having their permit revoked.
   B.   Placing Materials On Property: While peddling or soliciting within the
Village, no peddler or solicitor will be allowed to place door hangings of any
kind on the property of persons that they are wishing to solicit. Solicitors in
violation of this subsection may be fined, for noncompliance with this chapter,
as provided in section
3-2-10 of this chapter and will be required to pick up any literature that was
left at residences within the Village.
   C.   Distribution Of Advertising Materials: It shall be unlawful to post any
bill or advertisement on any property without the written consent of the owner
thereof. No person shall distribute, cast, throw, or place in or upon or along
any of the streets, alleys, or public places of the Village of Hudson any
posters, handbills, flyers, pamphlets, circulars, books, or advertisements for
the purpose or with the intent of advertising, or making known in a general or
promiscuous manner, any business, occupation, profession, medical treatment,
medicine, or anything whatsoever. Certain persons, groups, or organizations are
exempt from this provision as noted in section
3-2-9 of this chapter.
   D.   Time Available for Solicitation: It shall be unlawful for peddling or
solicitations of any variety to begin before eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. or
continue after sunset. No person shall engage in soliciting or peddling on any
Federal holiday. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 1311, 5-1-
2018; Ord. 1353, 8-3-2021)
3-2-6: RECORDS KEPT:
A record of each solicitor permit issued will be kept at the Village Police
Department for not less than one year from the date of issuance of said permit.
(Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any solicitor's permit issued hereunder may be revoked by the Chief of Police,
or an authorized agent, if the holder of the solicitor's permit:
   A.   Violates any of the provisions of this chapter;
   B.   Has made a false statement or misrepresentation in the permit
application;
   C.   Perpetrates a fraud or misrepresentation in the course of conducting
solicitation activities;
   D.   Transfers any solicitor's permit to a person other than the person for
whom the permit was issued;
   E.   Uses or allows the use of a solicitor's permit by any person other than
the person to whom the permit was issued;
   F.   Conducts solicitation activities in an unlawful manner or in such
manner as to create a public nuisance or in such a way as to constitute a
danger to the health, safety or welfare of the public; or
   G.   Is convicted of any felony subsequent to the issuance of a solicitor's
permit. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011)
3-2-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person denied a solicitor's permit or whose solicitor's permit has
been revoked may appeal by filing a written notice of appeal with the Village
President, with a copy sent to the Chief of Police.
   B.   Appeals must be taken in writing and must be filed with the Village
President, with a copy sent to the Chief of Police, within ten (10) business
days after revocation or denial of the permit and shall contain a statement
setting the grounds for the appeal. The appealing party shall submit whatever
documentation he desires to have the Village President consider with the
written appeal. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   The written decision of the Village President shall be made available
to the appealing party not later than ten (10) business days after the Village
President receives the written appeal.
   D.   The decision of the Village President is final. No new application for
a permit will be considered for six (6) months after denial or revocation,
unless said denial or revocation is without prejudice or is conditional and the
conditions have been satisfied as determined by the Village President. (Ord.
2011-1257, 10-4-2011)
3-2-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   The following persons are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Persons engaged in the sales or deliveries of goods, wares,
foodstuffs, merchandise or services on regularly established routes, or sales
or deliveries by other persons having an established list of customers to whom
they make periodic deliveries.
      2.   Persons seeking the signature of a Village resident for a zoning or
election petition.
      3.   Persons engaged in solicitation at the invitation or request of the
person contacted.
      4.   Solicitation related to children's activities or local nonprofit
groups and organizations including, but not limited to, Girl Scouts, Boy
Scouts, youth softball/baseball and school activities within the school
district and/or Lions' Club, women's clubs or other groups or organizations
within the Village.
      5.   Religious, political or other nonprofit organizations, and political
candidates. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011)
   B.   The Village also recognizes that an application fee would inhibit
fundraising for local clubs or organizations. Because of this, local clubs and
organizations shall not be required to obtain a permit for each applicant nor
shall they be charged fifty dollars ($50.00) per peddler/solicitor; however,
they will be required to inform the Police Department of their planned
activities.
   C.   Should a business located within the Village geographical limits wish
to go door to door, it also will be exempt from the provisions of this chapter
but again would be required to notify the Police Department of its activities.
(Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
3-2-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found peddling/soliciting without applying for a permit
shall be guilty of violating this chapter and shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for such violation.
   B.   Any person who is found guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) on the
first offense, and fines shall increase on additional offenses not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and the violator may be ordered to stop
soliciting unless in receipt of a solicitor's permit as required by this
chapter. (Ord. 2011-1257, 10-4-2011; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License And Compliance Required
3-3-3: Application For License; Investigation
3-3-4: License Fee
3-3-5: Liability Insurance
3-3-6: Term Of License; Nontransferability
3-3-7: License And Capacity To Be Posted
3-3-8: Persons On Duty
3-3-9: Conduct Of Business
3-3-10: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-3-11: Requirements For Specific Amusement Establishments
3-3-12: Additional Requirements
3-3-13: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
BILLIARD CENTER: A place of amusement or entertainment in which one or more
persons are invited to play and participate in the game of billiards, including
pocket table billiards or snooker table billiards, or wherein one or more pool
tables or billiard tables are kept, used or operated for profit or in the
course of a business enterprise.
BOWLING ALLEY: A place of amusement or entertainment in which one or more
persons are invited to play and participate in the game of bowling or wherein
one or more bowling lanes are used or operated for profit or in the course of a
business enterprise.
GAME ROOM: A place of amusement or entertainment in which three (3) or more
mechanical amusement devices are kept or maintained for the use of the public,
operated for a profit or in the course of a business enterprise.
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any musical device, pinball machine, novelty
machine, skill machine, pool machine, bowling machine or similar machine which
operates or may be operated for use as a game of skill, amusement or play and
for which a charge is made, whether coin operated, token operated, ticket
operated, time operated, operated by control of an operator or operated as an
enticement for the business enterprise.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm or corporation who keeps or allows billiard or pool
tables to be kept on premises owned by him or under his control where the same
may be played by members of the public legally upon such premises upon payment
of the charge therefor.
OWNER: Any person, firm or corporation who owns and places billiard or pool
tables by whatever arrangements on the operator's premises.
PUBLIC SKATING RINK: Any room, place or space in which skating, either on
roller skates or ice skates, is carried on and to which admission can be had by
the public by payment, either directly or indirectly, of a fee, or by payment
of a charge for any service auxiliary to skating, or by purchase, possession or
presentation of a ticket or token; but the term "skating" shall not be held to
apply to exhibitions or performances in which the persons paying for admission
do not participate.
THEATER: Any room, place or space for the showing of motion pictures, plays,
musicals, concerts or other entertainments to which admission can be had by the
public by payment, either directly or indirectly, of an admission price. (2016
Code)
3-3-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: No person shall engage in the following acts in the
village without having first obtained an amusement license:
      1.   Operate a theater.
      2.   Operate a billiard center.
      3.   Operate a bowling alley.
      4.   Own, operate, maintain, sell or keep for operation a mechanical
amusement device.
      5.   Conduct or operate a public skating rink.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: The licensee, agent or employee shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter. (2016 Code)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   All applications for an amusement license shall conform to the
following requirements:
      1.   Be made in writing to the village clerk, verified by the applicant
and accompanied by the license fee required.
      2.   State the name, age and address of the applicant and, if the
applicant is a corporation, the name of its officers and directors.
      3.   State the location of the place where the amusement device or
facility is to be located and operated.
      4.   State the number of amusement devices, alleys, tables, greens,
screens, etc., as may be applicable to the particular business to be conducted.
      5.   Include a detailed scale layout of the operation, showing the
location of the greens, tables, alleys, screens, lighting, fences, buildings,
structures and other equipment.
      6.   State the name(s) of the manager(s) hired to supervise the
particular operation.
      7.   Include such other and further information as may be required by the
village clerk.
   B.   The application for a license or renewal of a license shall be made
upon forms furnished by the village clerk and shall include the date and place
of conviction of any person named therein for any crime other than minor
traffic violations committed during the period of ten (10) years prior to the
date of application, including a statement of the crime of which such person
was convicted.
   C.   The chief of police shall investigate any and all applications for a
license and shall submit a report to the village. (2016 Code)
3-3-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Fee Established; Exemptions: The annual fee for an amusement license
shall be ten dollars ($10.00). The fee provided for in this section may be
waived upon application to the board of trustees in the case of limited
performances or engagements by a nonprofit organization.
   B.   Fee Not Transferable Or Prorated: The fee provided for herein is not
transferable, nor may it be prorated; except, that the fee for theaters,
billiard tables and amusement devices shall be paid for the number of screens,
tables or machines available for use, and the licenses are valid for different
tables or machines as may be replaced or changed from time to time during the
year; provided, that the license fee is paid for the maximum number of machines
or tables used on the applicant's premises at any one time. (2016 Code)
3-3-5: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Each licensee shall keep in force liability insurance of a minimum of seven
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00) combined single limit liability
coverage for injury to or death of any one person or persons or damages/
destruction of property in any one accident by a corporation or corporations
authorized to write insurance in the state during the license year. It shall
appear on such policy that the village shall be notified, in writing, at least
thirty (30) days prior to the cancellation of such policy of insurance. (2016
Code)
3-3-6: TERM OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Each license shall expire on December 31 next after its issuance and shall not
be transferable from one person to another. (2016 Code)
3-3-7: LICENSE AND CAPACITY TO BE POSTED:
Every entertainment license shall be conspicuously posted about the place for
which the license is issued and shall be exhibited to any person upon request.
All amusement facilities shall post the capacity limitation for their premises
in a conspicuous place. (2016 Code)
3-3-8: PERSONS ON DUTY:
There shall be on duty at all times that the operation of a billiard center,
bowling alley, mechanical or electronic amusement device, public skating rink,
theater or game room is open to the public an adult operator or manager who
understands the operation of all equipment used on the premises. It shall be
the duty of the licensee and his manager to remain on the premises at all times
and enforce the provisions of subsection
3-3-9A of this chapter. (2016 Code)
3-3-9: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Code Of Conduct:
      1.   The licensee, under this chapter, shall follow and enforce the
following code of conduct for the licensed premises:
         a.   Truants from school shall not be permitted to enter or remain on
the premises.
         b.   No person violating any curfew law or ordinance shall be
permitted to enter or remain on the licensed premises.
         c.   No person soliciting to vice or any other unlawful purpose shall
be permitted to enter or remain on the licensed premises.
         d.   No person selling, transferring, giving, using or in possession
of any "controlled substance", as defined by Illinois Compiled Statutes, shall
be permitted to enter or remain on the premises or remain in the area directly
adjacent to the premises.
         e.   No person shall be permitted to harass, threaten or annoy any
persons.
         f.   No person shall loiter inside or outside a billiard center.
Persons not engaging in billiard or pool play or waiting their turn to play
shall be prohibited from the billiard center except in cases of an owner
sanctioned tournament or contest. Persons shall be prohibited from loitering on
the property outside the billiard center, including the parking lot.
      2.   The licensee under this chapter shall post in plain view a copy of
the above rules of conduct as well as a copy of the house rules and hours of
operation in a minimum of one inch (1") letters.
   B.   Maintenance Of Order: It shall be the responsibility of the licensee
under this chapter to maintain order on the licensed premises at all times.
(2016 Code)
3-3-10: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Alcoholic Beverages On Licensed Premises: No person shall, in any
licensed premises or in any anteroom, corridor, cloakroom, hallway or dressing
room thereof or in any room connecting therewith, drink any alcoholic
beverages; nor shall any licensee hereunder suffer or permit any person to
drink any alcoholic beverages in or on any licensed premises over which such
licensee has control.
   B.   Gambling In Billiard Centers:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any licensed
billiard center to permit the same to be used for gambling or for the making of
bets or wagers.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the licensee or the owner or operator of a
billiard center to give any money, token, merchandise or any other thing of
value or any reward or prize in lieu of free games.
      3.   No person shall keep, maintain, sell or permit to be operated in his
billiard center any billiard table, pool table or other equipment which has
been converted into an automatic payoff device which shall discharge coins,
checks or other tokens to the operator or player of such table or equipment. No
person shall convert any billiard table, pool table or other equipment into an
automatic payoff device.
      4.   Any billiard or pool table which has been utilized in violation of
this subsection B may be seized and destroyed in compliance with the provisions
of the state statutes relating to gambling devices. (2016 Code)
3-3-11: REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIFIC AMUSEMENT ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Skating Rinks, Billiard Centers, Bowling Alleys And Amusement Centers:
      1.   Lighting: Every skating rink, billiard center, bowling alley and
place having mechanical amusement devices shall be illuminated while in public
use, and operation thereof while the lights are extinguished or turned so low
as to not give proper vision is hereby prohibited.
      2.   Open View: The operation of a skating rink, billiard center, bowling
alley and premises having mechanical amusement devices shall at all times be
conducted in open view of the public. Such amusements shall not be enclosed
from the public in private rooms.
      3.   Hours Of Operation For Billiard Centers; Minors:
         a.   A billiard center shall be closed by one o'clock (1:00) A.M. each
night and may not be open until nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. on weekdays and
Saturdays or until twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sundays.
         b.   No one under the age of sixteen (16) shall be permitted on the
premises of a billiard center after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. except when
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian; no one under the age of eighteen
(18) shall be permitted on the premises of a billiard center after ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. except when accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   B.   Theaters:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to show or exhibit in a public
place or in a place to which the public is admitted any motion picture, whether
an admission is charged or not, without exhibiting a classification notice
therefor as provided in this subsection. The classification notice required in
this subsection shall designate the rating applied to the motion picture to be
exhibited. Such classification notice shall contain one of the ratings used by
the Motion Picture Association Of America, Inc.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to show or exhibit or cause to
be shown or exhibited to any person under the age of seventeen (17) any picture
designated R unless accompanied by a parent or adult guardian. It shall be
unlawful for any person to show or exhibit or cause to be shown or exhibited to
any person under the age of seventeen (17) any picture designated NC-17.
      3.   Any person who admits a person not qualified to view a motion
picture under the provisions of this subsection B to a performance of a picture
designated R or NC-17 shall be presumed to have violated the provisions of this
subsection B. Such prima facie case of violation may be rebutted by a showing
that the motion picture in question has been improperly classified.
      4.   The rating provided by this subsection B shall be that imposed upon
such motion picture by the Motion Picture Association Of America, Inc., if the
motion picture has been classified by that organization. In the event no
classification has been imposed by such motion picture organization, the person
or organization showing or exhibiting such motion picture shall be responsible
for designating the classification in accordance with standards prescribed by
the Motion Picture Association Of America, Inc., and shall restrict admission
to persons under the age of seventeen (17) in accordance with the standards set
forth in the ratings as provided in this subsection B.
      5.   The notice of classification provided for in this subsection B shall
be posted at or near the entrance of the theater, hall, room or place where any
motion picture is being exhibited, at such a place and in such a position that
it may easily be read by any person entering such theater, hall, room or place,
at any time when any such motion picture is being exhibited. Film ratings shall
be included in all advertising.
      6.   When motion pictures having a different rating are being shown
together as double or triple features, they shall all be assigned the rating of
the picture carrying the most restrictive rating.
      7.   No licensee shall display on the exterior of an indoor theater or
show or exhibit at any drive-in theater in such a manner that passersby view or
are likely to view any picture, photograph, drawing or similar visual
representation or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts
sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sadomasochistic abuse. (2016 Code)
3-3-12: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The village may impose other reasonable restrictions or conditions as it deems
necessary to provide for public health, safety, and welfare. (2016 Code)
3-3-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
All licenses granted hereunder shall be revocable for cause at any time. Said
licenses may be suspended for such period as the board of trustees may
prescribe or may be revoked by the board of trustees, and such revocation or
suspension shall be made on reasonable hearing prescribed by the board of
trustees. "Cause" shall include any violation of this chapter. If there shall
be two (2) convictions for violations of this chapter, whether such violations
are the same or different provisions of this chapter, the second such
conviction shall be cause for revocation of the license after hearing
prescribed by the board of trustees. No refund fee shall be paid on revocation.
(2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE FOOD AND BEVERAGE VENDORS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required; Application
3-4-3: Application Review
3-4-4: Payment Of Applicable Taxes
3-4-5: Requirements For Conducting Business
3-4-6: Sanitation And Inspections
3-4-7: Appeal Process
3-4-8: Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE: A commercially manufactured, motorized mobile food unit in
which ready to eat food is cooked, wrapped, packaged, processed, or portioned
for service, sale, or distribution and which moves from place to place upon the
public ways.
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR: The owner of a mobile food vehicle, or the owner's agent,
who sells prepared food or beverage items to members of the public. A mobile
food vendor shall not include any charitable organization which distributes
food or beverages to those in need. A mobile food vendor shall not include
persons engaged in the door to door delivery of previously prepared food or
beverage items to customers who have placed an order for such items. (Ord.
1291, 11-1-2016)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the village as a
mobile food vendor without first having obtained a license for that purpose.
   B.   Any person desiring to operate as a mobile food vendor shall make a
written application for such license to the village clerk or his/her designee.
The application for such license shall be on forms provided by the village
clerk or his/her designee and shall include the following:
      1.   Name, signature, and address of each applicant.
      2.   A description of the preparation methods and food or beverage
products offered for sale, including the intended menu, display, and
distribution containers.
      3.   Plans and specifications for the mobile food vehicle, including the
proposed layout, photographs, mechanical schematics, construction materials,
finish schedules, equipment types, manufacturers, model numbers, locations,
dimensions, weight of vehicle, performance capacities, power source,
installation specifications, and information on any custom fabricated
equipment.
      4.   The anticipated volume of food to be stored, prepared, and sold.
      5.   A valid copy of all necessary licenses or permits required by the
Illinois department of public health, the Illinois department of transportation
and the McLean County board of health.
      6.   A copy of the annual permit issued by the McLean County health
department, as applicable.
      7.   A criminal background check. A license shall not be issued to a
registered sex offender as defined in the sex offender registration act 1 .
      8.   A signed statement that the vendor shall hold harmless the village
and its officers and employees, and shall indemnify the village, its officers
and employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons which
may be occasioned by any activity carried on under the terms of the permit. A
mobile food vendor shall furnish and maintain such public liability, food
products liability, and property damage insurance as will protect himself, the
mobile food vehicle, and the village from all claims for damage to property or
bodily injury, including death, which may arise from the operations under the
license or in connection therewith. Such insurance shall provide coverage of
not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. The policy
shall further provide that it may not be canceled except upon thirty (30) days'
written notice served upon the village clerk. A license issued pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be invalid at any time the insurance required
herein is not maintained and evidence of continuing coverage is not filed with
the village clerk.
      9.   Payment of a license fee in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   C.   In addition to naming the vendor, the approved operating location site
diagram, and other information deemed appropriate by the village clerk, or his/
her designee, the mobile food vehicle vending permit shall contain the
following conditions:
      1.   Each mobile food vehicle vending license shall expire on December 31
of each year.
      2.   The license shall not be transferable from person to person or from
place to place without the approval of the village clerk or his/her designee.
      3.   The approved operational location may be changed, either temporarily
or permanently, by written notice of the village clerk or his/her designee.
      4.   The license is valid for one vehicle only.
      5.   A sign on the mobile food vending vehicle shall consist of letters
no less than three inches (3") in height and shall state the name and telephone
number of the owner of the vehicle.
   D.   Licenses authorized to be issued pursuant to this chapter may be
suspended, revoked, or refused to be issued upon good cause shown. The issuing
authority may refuse to issue, or may revoke, or suspend a license if any
applicant or agent thereof refuses to comply with any requirement of this
chapter. (Ord. 1291, 11-1-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 730 ILCS 150/1 et seq.
3-4-3: APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Upon receipt of a complete application for a license, the license shall
be referred to the mayor for approval or disapproval. The issuance of a mobile
food vendor license must be compatible with the public interest. In making this
determination, the mayor shall consider the number of mobile food vendor
licenses that have been distributed, the size of the mobile food vehicle, the
number of sales anticipated by the mobile food operator, the traffic that may
be generated by the mobile food vendor, and the criminal record of the
applicant.
   B.   An application or approved license may be denied, revoked, suspended,
or not renewed for any of the following reasons:
      1.   The application contains material omissions or false, fraudulent, or
deceptive statements.
      2.   The vehicle is or will be operated in such a manner as to constitute
a public nuisance.
      3.   The proposed operation is in violation of federal, state, or local
law. (Ord. 1291, 11-1-2016)
3-4-4: PAYMENT OF APPLICABLE TAXES:
   A.   The mobile food vendor shall file and pay all applicable taxes required
by the village and the state of Illinois, including, but not limited to,
retailer occupation tax. (Ord. 1291, 11-1-2016)
3-4-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR CONDUCTING BUSINESS:
   A.   A mobile food vehicle shall not park, stand, or operate in a location
which is adjacent to or within one hundred feet (100') of a licensed food
establishment. This requirement may be waived if the application is submitted
with the written consent of the proprietor of the adjacent licensed food
establishment. This requirement shall not apply to a mobile food vehicle
affiliated with the licensed food establishment.
   B.   A mobile food vehicle shall not park, stand, or operate in a location
within five hundred feet (500') of any fair, carnival, circus, festival,
special event, or civic event that is licensed or sanctioned by the village
except when the mobile food vendor has obtained a temporary food permit from
the village.
   C.   A mobile food vendor shall not park, stand, or operate any vehicle
within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk, stoplight, or stop sign.
   D.   No operation of a mobile food vehicle is permitted on any private
property unless all of the following requirements are met:
      1.   The mobile food vendor has obtained the written consent of the owner
or licensee of the property and such written consent is kept in the mobile food
vehicle at all times while the vehicle is on the property;
      2.   The mobile food vendor is in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the village of Hudson zoning ordinance.
   E.   No mobile food vendor shall operate in any privately owned: 1) vacant
lot, or 2) a lot in a vacant building.
   F.   Mobile food vendors may only operate between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
and three o'clock (3:00) A.M. No approved mobile food vehicle shall be left
unattended on a public way, nor remain on a public way outside of these allowed
hours of operation.
   G.   The mobile food operator shall display signage only on the vehicle
itself. No freestanding signage shall be allowed.
   H.   The emission of any amplified sound from the mobile food vehicle shall
be prohibited.
   I.   All identifying information, logos, advertising, decorations, or other
displays on the exterior of a mobile food vehicle shall conform to the
specifications set forth in this code regulating commercial signage, to the
extent applicable. In particular, exterior displays shall be designed to
minimize confusion or distraction that jeopardizes vehicular and pedestrian
safety and shall be harmonious with the surroundings and consistent with the
character of the community in which the mobile food vehicle operates.
   J.   Mobile food vehicles shall be operated only by the mobile food vehicle
licensee or by an authorized employee of such licensee.
   K.   Mobile food operators are limited to parking, standing, and operating
in the following areas: industrial and commercial zoned areas within the
village of Hudson. A mobile food operator may not park, stand, or operate in
one of these locations if doing so would substantially obstruct a public way,
impair the movement of pedestrians or vehicles, or pose a hazard to public
safety. (Ord. 1291, 11-1-2016)
3-4-6: SANITATION AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   All mobile food vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. It shall be the duty of the village clerk or his/her designee to
make or cause to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure all
mobile food vehicles are kept in a clean and sanitary condition. The village
clerk or his/her designee, bearing proper identification, shall be permitted to
enter any mobile food vehicle at any reasonable time for the purpose of
inspecting to determine whether the vendor has complied with the terms of this
chapter. Additionally, the mobile food vendor shall, on request, provide the
village clerk or his/her designee with the records of the mobile food vehicle
to obtain information pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received, or
used. Denial of access to the mobile food vehicle or to said records shall be
deemed an interference with the village clerk or his/her designee in the
performance of his/her duties and a violation of this chapter subject to the
penalties set forth in section
3-4-8 of this chapter.
   B.   All food storage, preparation and distribution of food and vehicle
equipment must meet applicable Illinois department of public health standards
and requirements, as well as standards to be determined by the village clerk or
his/her designee.
   C.   All food, beverages, ice, and other materials sold or used in
preparation of goods to be sold must be obtained from an approved commercial
source. A mobile food vendor shall keep invoices of the point of origin of all
items sold during the past thirty (30) days.
   D.   A mobile vendor shall serve all milk and milk products only in the
individual containers or approved dispensers in which the product was filled in
a grade A milk plant.
   E.   A mobile vendor shall use only single service food utensils. All single
service food utensils such as cups, straws, knives, forks, spoons, and stirrers
shall be individually wrapped, kept in a clean place, properly handled and
shall be used only once. All cups and containers for bulk drinks shall be
stored in closed cartons and served from dispensers which protect their rims
from contamination.
   F.   All waste liquids, garbage, litter, and refuse shall be kept in
leakproof, nonabsorbent containers which shall be kept covered with
tightfitting lids and properly disposed of at the mobile food vendor's
property. No waste liquids, garbage, litter, or refuse shall be dumped or
drained into sidewalks, streets, gutters, drains, trash receptacles, or any
other place except the mobile food vendor's property. A garbage receptacle
shall be easily accessible for customer use. The mobile food operator shall be
responsible for all litter and garbage left by customers. (Ord. 1291, 11-1-
2016)
3-4-7: APPEAL PROCESS:
   A.   Any person denied a permit under this chapter, or whose permit has been
suspended or revoked, may appeal such decision by filing a written notice of
appeal with the village clerk, within ten (10) days following notice of such
denial, suspension or revocation.
   B.   The written notice of appeal shall contain a statement setting forth
the grounds for the appeal and other evidence or documentation supporting such
appeal.
   C.   Upon receipt of a properly completed notice of appeal, the village
clerk shall forward the notice of appeal to the president and board of
trustees.
   D.   The president and board of trustees shall, at the next regular meeting
of the village board, or such other date as agreed by the parties, take up and
consider the notice of appeal. The president and board of trustees may allow
the appellant to present testimony to the village board at such meeting.
   E.   The village board shall, following review of the written appeal and any
testimony presented by the appellant, make a decision on the appeal. Such
decision shall be made at the same meeting at which the appeal is considered,
or at the next regular meeting of the village board. (Ord. 1291, 11-1-2016)
3-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person licensed under this chapter or any agent thereof violating any of
the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation. A separate and distinct offense shall be
regarded as committed each day upon which said person, or agent shall continue
any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist or continue. (Ord.
1291, 11-1-2016; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 5
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
3-5-3: Public Nuisance Declared
3-5-4: Violations
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter, have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-
0027), as it may be amended from time- to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent. (Ord. 1333, 1-7-2020)
3-5-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   The following Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited
in the Village of Hudson.
   B.   No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or
aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of Hudson of any of
the following:
      1.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation
Center.
      2.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization.
      3.   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser.
      4.   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor.
      5.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter. (Ord.
1333, 1-7-2020)
3-5-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited Cannabis Business Establishment within the Village
in violation of the provisions of this Chapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies. (Ord. 1333, 1-
7-2020)
3-5-4: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this Chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 4 of Title 1 of this Code. (Ord. 1333, 1-7-2020)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definition
4-1-2: Public Nuisances Prohibited
4-1-3: Enumeration Of Public Nuisances
4-1-3-1: Public Nuisances Affecting Health
4-1-3-2: Public Nuisances Related To Morals And Decency
4-1-3-3: Public Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
4-1-4: Abatement Procedures
4-1-5: Cost Of Abatement
4-1-1: DEFINITION:
A public nuisance is a thing, act, occupation, condition or use of property
which shall continue for such length of time as to:
   A.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the comfort, health, repose or
safety of the public.
   B.   In any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of
property.
   C.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency.
   D.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or tend to
obstruct or render dangerous for passage any street, alley, highway, navigable
body of water or other public way. (2016 Code)
4-1-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No person shall erect, contrive, cause, continue, maintain or permit to exist
any public nuisance within the village. (2016 Code)
4-1-3: ENUMERATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCES:
4-1-3-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
   A.   Enumeration: The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and
things are specifically declared to be public health nuisances but shall not be
construed to exclude other health nuisances coming within the definition in
section
4-1-1 of this chapter:
      1.   Garbage And Refuse Accumulations: Accumulations of decayed animal or
vegetable matter, trash, rubbish, rotting lumber, bedding, packing material,
scrap metal or any material in which flies, mosquitoes, disease carrying
insects, rats or other vermin may breed, or which constitute a fire hazard.
      2.   Open Refuse Containers: Refuse containers which are not flytight.
      3.   Stagnant Waters: All stagnant waters in which mosquitoes, flies or
other insects can multiply.
      4.   Air Pollution:
         a.   The escape of smoke, soot, cinders, noxious acids, fumes, gases,
fly ash or industrial dust within the village limits in such quantities as to
endanger the health of persons of ordinary sensibilities or to threaten or
cause substantial injury to property.
         b.   Any use of property, substances or things within the village
emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous, noxious, or
disagreeable odors, effluvia or stenches extremely repulsive to the physical
senses of ordinary persons which annoy, discomfort, injure or inconvenience the
health of any appreciable number of persons within the village.
      5.   Water Pollution: The pollution of any public well or cistern,
stream, lake, canal or body of water by sewage, or industrial wastes or other
substances.
      6.   Animal Houses: Any barn, stable, yard, shed, pen or other place
where animals or fowl are kept which is not maintained in a clean condition; or
any animals or fowl which, because of disease, unsanitary conditions, odor or
noise, or discomfort, injure the health or well being of residents of the
village.
      7.   Abandoned Wells And Cisterns: All abandoned wells or cisterns not
securely covered or secured from public use.
      8.   Noxious Weeds: All noxious weeds as defined by 505 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 100/1 et seq.
   B.   Penalty: Violators of this section will be charged a fine of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first offense and seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for all subsequent offenses. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-
6-2022)
4-1-3-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES RELATED TO MORALS AND DECENCY:
   A.   Enumeration: The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and
things are hereby specifically declared to be public nuisances offending public
morals and decency, but such enumeration shall not be construed to exclude
other nuisances offending public morals and decency coming within the
definition in section
4-1-1 of this chapter:
      1.   Disorderly Houses; Houses Of Ill Fame: All disorderly houses,
bawdyhouses, houses of ill fame, gambling houses and buildings or structures
kept or resorted to for the purpose of prostitution, promiscuous sexual
intercourse or gambling.
      2.   Gambling Devices: All gambling devices and slot machines.
      3.   Unlicensed Liquor Sales: All places where intoxicating liquor or
fermented malt beverages are sold, possessed, stored, brewed, bottled,
manufactured or rectified without a permit or license as provided by this code.
      4.   Unlawful Liquor Consumption: Any place or premises resorted to for
the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor or fermented malt beverages in
violation of the laws of the state or the ordinances of the village.
      5.   Violation Of Village Or State Laws: Any place or premises within the
village where village ordinances or state laws relating to public health,
safety, peace, morals or welfare are openly, continuously, repeatedly and
intentionally violated.
   B.   Penalty: Violators of this section will be charged a fine of two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for the first offense and seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for all subsequent offenses. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-
6-2022)
4-1-3-3: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
   A.   Enumeration: The following acts, omissions, places, conditions and
things are hereby declared to be public nuisances affecting peace and safety,
but such enumeration shall not be construed to exclude other nuisances
affecting public peace or safety coming within the provisions of section
4-1-1 of this chapter:
      1.   Unlawful Construction Within Village Limits: All buildings erected,
repaired or altered within the village limits in violation of the provisions of
the ordinances of the village relating to materials and manner of construction
of buildings and structures within the village.
      2.   Dangerous Buildings: All buildings or structures so old, dilapidated
or out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for
human use.
      3.   Unauthorized Traffic Control Devices: All unauthorized signs,
signals, markings or devices which purport to be or may be mistaken as official
traffic control devices placed or maintained upon or in view of any public
highway or railway crossing.
      4.   Obstructions To Driver's View: All trees, hedges, billboards or
other obstructions which prevent persons driving vehicles on public streets,
alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when approaching an
intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
      5.   Limbs Over Public Ways: All limbs of trees which project over a
public sidewalk less than eight feet (8') above the surface thereof or less
than ten feet (10') above the surface of a public street.
      6.   Utility Wires Over Public Ways: All wires over streets, alleys or
public grounds which are strung less than fifteen feet (15') above the surface
of the street or ground.
      7.   Obstructions Of Public Ways; Excavations: All obstructions of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or crosswalks and all excavations in or under the
same, except as permitted by the ordinances of the village or which, although
made in accordance with such ordinances, are kept or maintained for an
unreasonable length of time after the purpose thereof has been accomplished.
      8.   Unguarded Pits, Wells And Excavations: All open and unguarded pits,
wells, excavations or unused basements freely accessible from any public
street, alley or sidewalk.
      9.   Crowds Obstructing Public Ways: Any unauthorized or unlawful use of
property abutting on a public street, alley or sidewalk or of a public street,
alley or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing
traffic and free use of the streets or sidewalks.
      10.   Fire Hazards; Interfering With Fire Extinguishing: Any structure,
material or condition which constitutes a fire hazard or will impair
extinguishing a fire.
      11.   Illegal Use Or Display Of Fireworks: Any use or display of
fireworks except as provided by the laws of the State and ordinances of the
Village.
      12.   Noises And Vibrations: All loud and discordant noises or vibrations
of any kind from an amplified device that can be heard from one hundred feet
(100') or more away.
      13.   Abandoned Containers: All abandoned refrigerators, iceboxes, ice
chests, or other containers which have airtight doors or locks which may not be
released for opening from the inside of said refrigerators, iceboxes, ice
chests or containers of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or
more.
      14.   State Law Nuisances: Any nuisance described in the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   B.   Penalty: Any violator of this section will be charged a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00), plus any and all administrative expenses, for all
offenses. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
4-1-4: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Inspections: Whenever complaint is made that a public nuisance exists,
or has existed, within the Village, the Police Chief or some other Village
official shall forthwith inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and
shall make a written report of his findings. Whenever practicable, the
inspecting officer shall cause photographs to be made of the premises and shall
file the same in the Office of the Village Clerk.
   B.   Abatement Of Certain Nuisances: Abatement of grass, weeds or other
growth; garbage, rubbish, ashes, bulky wastes, brush, construction and
demolition wastes and other wastes; or any nuisance affecting the public
health, safety or peace shall be as follows: (2016 Code)
      1.   Notice To Abate: It shall be the duty of the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, upon receipt of the report of findings of the inspector of the
premises as required in subsection A of this section to cause a notice to be
served, either by certified mail, or in person, upon the owner or occupant of
any tract of real estate within the Village, when such tract is determined to
have upon it a nuisance as described in this chapter, to abate said nuisance
within seven (7) days of the date of its receipt. Additionally, one copy of the
notice shall be conspicuously posted on the property. If no owner or occupant
may be found after due and diligent inquiry as to the whereabouts of the owner
or occupant of such tract, then the Zoning Enforcement Officer or the Chief of
Police shall cause a notice to be published in a newspaper published in the
Village, or if no newspaper is published therein, then in a newspaper of
general circulation in the Village, notifying all owners, occupants or other
persons interested in any tract of real estate within the Village of the
nuisance to be determined to be upon the tract, and of the demand to abate the
same.
      2.   Abatement By Village: If any owner or occupant of land within the
Village fails to abate any nuisance from such land within seven (7) days after
the date of receipt of such notice and demand to abate, including publication
in a newspaper, the Village may proceed to abate, or hire abatement work and
charge the owner or occupant, such nuisance on any private tract of real estate
within the Village, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement as to
each particular lot or tract, and such expense shall be charged and paid by
such owner or occupant.
      3.   Fees And Costs: If, after giving notice as required in subsection B1
of this section, a condition described in the notice remains, the Village may
remove or cause the removal of the conditions, keeping a record of the costs
incurred. The Village shall charge a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine, plus
the cost of abatement, to cover a portion of the administrative and abatement
costs incurred. Rates for abatement shall be as follows (all rates are 1 hour
minimum):
 
Mowing with equipment and operator $ 50.00/hour
Backhoe and operator               125.00/hour
Dump truck and operator            125.00/hour
Extra laborers                     25.00/hour/laborer
Miscellaneous other equipment      50.00/hour
 
(Ord. 1315, 7-3-2018)
      4.   Lien Provisions:
         a.   Costs A Lien: If the Village incurs a removal cost under this
chapter with respect to any underlying parcel, then that cost is a lien upon
that underlying parcel. This lien is superior to all other liens and
encumbrances, except tax liens and as otherwise provided in subsection B4c of
this section. (2016 Code)
         b.   Notice Of Lien:
            (1)   To perfect a lien under this subsection B4, the Village must,
within thirty (30) days after the removal cost is incurred, file notice of lien
in the Office of the County Recorder. The notice must consist of a sworn
statement setting out: (Ord. 1315, 7-3-2018)
               (A)   A description of the underlying parcel that sufficiently
identifies the parcel;
               (B)   The amount of the removal cost; and
               (C)   The date or dates when the removal cost was incurred by
the Village.
 
            (2)   If, for any one parcel, the Village engaged in any removal
activity on more than one occasion during the course of one year, then the
Village may combine any or all of the costs of each of those activities into a
single notice of lien.
         c.   Exemptions From Lien: A lien under this subsection B4 is not
valid as to:
            (1)   Any purchaser whose rights in and to the underlying parcel
arose after the removal activity but before the filing of the notice of lien;
or
            (2)   Any mortgagee, judgment creditor, or other lienor whose
rights in and to the underlying parcel arose before the filing of the notice of
lien.
         d.   Service And Contents Of Notice: The removal cost is not a lien on
the underlying parcel unless a notice is personally served on, or sent by
certified mail to, the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general
taxes on the property for the taxable year immediately preceding the removal
activities. The notice must be delivered or sent after the removal activities
have been performed, and it must:
            (1)   State the substance of this subsection B4 and the substance
of any ordinance of the Village implementing this subsection B4;
            (2)   Identify the underlying parcel, by common description; and
            (3)   Describe the removal activity.
         e.   Enforcement Of Lien: A lien under this subsection B4 may be
enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in case of mortgages or mechanics'
liens. An action to foreclose a lien under this subsection B4 must be commenced
within two (2) years after the date of filing notice of lien.
         f.   Removal By Other Than Village: Any person who performs a removal
activity by the authority of the Village may, in his or her own name, file a
lien and foreclose on that lien in the same manner as a Village under this
subsection B4.
         g.   Failure To File A Foreclosure Action: A failure to file a
foreclosure action does not, in any way, affect the validity of the lien
against the underlying parcel.
         h.   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the lien cost by the owner of
the underlying parcel after notice of lien has been filed, the Village (or its
agent under subsection B4f of this section) shall release the lien, and the
release may be filed of record by the owner at his or her sole expense as in
the case of filing notice of lien.
         i.   Definitions: For the purposes of this subsection B4, the
following words and terms shall have the following meanings:
            LIEN COST: The removal cost and the filing costs for any notice of
lien under subsection B4b of this section.
            REMOVAL ACTIVITY: Any activity for which a removal cost was
incurred.
            REMOVAL COST: A Village cost to remove any nuisance from an
underlying parcel.
            UNDERLYING PARCEL: A parcel of private property upon which a
removal activity was performed.
            YEAR: A three hundred sixty five (365) day period.
         j.   Effect Of Provisions: This subsection B4 applies only to liens
filed after August 14, 2009 (the effective date of Public Act 96-462).
         k.   Nonapplicability Of Provisions: This subsection B4 shall not
apply to a lien filed pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15.1.
   C.   Abatement Of Other Nuisances: Abatement of any other nuisance than as
set forth in this subsection shall be as follows:
      1.   Notice To Abate: If the inspecting officer shall determine that a
public nuisance exists on private property and that there is great and
immediate danger to the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the
Zoning Enforcement Officer may direct the Police Chief, or any other Village
police official, to serve a notice on the owner or, if the owner cannot be
found, on the occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining such
nuisance and to post a copy of the notice on the premises. Such notice shall
direct the owner, occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining such
nuisance to abate or remove such nuisance within twenty four (24) hours and
shall state that unless such nuisance is so abated, the Village will cause the
same to be abated and will charge the cost thereof to the owner, occupant or
person causing, permitting or maintaining the same, as the case may be.
      2.   Abatement By Village: If the nuisance is not abated within the time
provided or if the owner, occupant or person causing the nuisance cannot be
found, the Zoning Enforcement Officer or the Police Chief, or some other
Village official shall cause the abatement or removal of such public nuisance.
(2016 Code)
4-1-5: COST OF ABATEMENT:
In addition to any other penalty imposed for the erection, contrivance,
creation, continuance or maintenance of a public nuisance, the cost of abating
a public nuisance by the Village shall be collected as a debt from the owner,
occupant or person causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance, and if
notice to abate the nuisance has been given to the owner, such cost shall be
assessed against the real estate. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Rules And Definitions
4-2-2: Preparation And Placement Of Garbage And Refuse
4-2-3: Collection Procedures
4-2-4: Delinquent Payments; Lien Provisions
4-2-5: Use Of Landscape Waste Recycling Center
4-2-6: Violations; Penalties
4-2-1: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations, shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory.
APPROVED REFUSE CONTAINER: A can made of galvanized metal, aluminum, plastic or
other waterproof and weatherproof material. The receptacle shall taper from top
to bottom, be fitted with handles or bales and be equipped with a tightfitting
cover or lid. The total capacity of any receptacle shall not exceed thirty (30)
gallons, and the total weight of the receptacle and contents thereof shall not
exceed fifty (50) pounds.
ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking or heating buildings.
BUILDING: Any structure, whether public or private, whether or not in use for
any purpose whatsoever.
BUILDING WASTE: Any and all refuse or residue resulting directly from building
construction, reconstruction, repair, demolition or replacement.
BULK REFUSE:
   A.   Discarded household furniture.
   B.   Discarded household appliances.
   C.   Any other individual item of furniture, furnishings, equipment, or
machinery weighing more than fifty (50) pounds, including, as examples, the
following: auto parts, tires and wheels, mechanical equipment, TV sets, stoves,
refrigerators, furniture pieces, individual items which, but for their weight,
would constitute rubbish, individual items of construction and demolition
waste, freezers, clothes washers, clothes dryers, dishwashers, trash
compactors, water heaters, furnaces and ductwork, carpeting, bed mattresses,
bed box springs, power lawn mowers, etc.
COMMERCIAL BUILDING: A building which is used for any commercial or industrial
purpose whatever, and shall include hotels and motels.
DEPARTMENT: The street department of the village of Hudson, Illinois.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
INSPECTOR: The person assigned the duties of refuse violation inspector of the
village of Hudson, Illinois.
LARGE CONTAINERS: Receptacles having a minimum capacity of three-fourths (3/4)
cubic yard and a maximum of two (2) cubic yards, with wheels, and designed to
be capable of being picked up by the village equipment; said receptacles
commonly being known as "dumpsters".
LICENSED WASTE COLLECTOR: Any person who obtains a license from the village of
Hudson to collect or transport public or private refuse over the streets of the
village.
OTHER WASTES: Any item of the nature of trash or refuse not specifically
enumerated in this section.
OWNER: Any person or group of persons having legal or equitable title to
property, or the agent of said person, lessee, or agent of a lessee, or any
person having care, custody, management or control of property.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible garbage, rubbish, ashes, bulky
waste, brush, construction and demolition wastes, building waste and other
wastes.
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: Any building, except a mobile home, which is used
exclusively for permanent dwelling purposes and such accessory uses as are
permitted under title 9 of this code.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: Any apartment, separate single-family dwelling or single
person dwelling in an apartment building, or a duplex apartment building, or
any other similar residential space set aside for the separate and complete use
of a single person, single family, or the like. Such unit may also be referred
to as a "dwelling unit" or "residential unit". Mobile homes, single-family
dwellings and house trailers will also be considered as "residential units" or
"dwelling units".
RUBBISH: Combustibles such as paper, cardboard, cartons, wood, boxes,
excelsior, plastic, rags, cloth, bedding, leather, rubber, grass, leaves, yard
trimmings and garden wastes, or noncombustibles, such as metal, tin cans, metal
foil, dirt, stone, bricks, ceramics, crockery, glass, bottles or combinations
thereof weighing fifty (50) pounds or less as left for pick up in containers.
STREETS: All publicly dedicated streets in the village of Hudson. Where refuse
collection authorized by subsections 4-2-3A and B of this chapter may not be
conveniently conducted from publicly dedicated streets, "streets" shall also
include streets in a mobile home park or apartment building complex which
possess the following characteristics: a) pavement of not less than ten feet
(10') in width; b) freedom from all obstructions not less than two feet (2') on
each side of the pavement; c) absence of overhanging tree limbs which could
interfere with any village refuse collection vehicle; d) configuration which
allows village refuse collection vehicles convenient ingress and egress; e)
surface maintained in a condition so as not to impede or hamper village refuse
collection vehicles. The determination of whether a "street" meets the
aforesaid standards shall be made by the village street superintendent. (2016
Code)
4-2-2: PREPARATION AND PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Containers:
      1.   Maintenance Required: It is the obligation of the owner and occupant
of any dwelling unit, commercial building, or other refuse collection customer
to provide approved refuse containers and maintain the same in good repair and
sanitary condition, unless provided by the approved waste collector. Whenever
any receptacle shall become defective, it is the joint responsibility of the
owner and occupant or other refuse collection customer to repair or replace the
same and to restore it to a sanitary condition, unless the receptacle is
provided by the approved waste collector.
      2.   Storage And Screening: All refuse containers shall be stored on the
premises of the owner or other persons utilizing the village refuse collection
service and shall not be stored in the front yard.
   B.   Preparation Of Garbage And Refuse:
      1.   All garbage shall be thoroughly drained of all liquids.
      2.   Bulk refuse shall be prepared so as not to be a hazard. Doors must
be removed from refrigerators and other large appliances.
      3.   All sharp objects constituting rubbish or construction or demolition
waste shall be blunted as much as may be reasonably possible.
      4.   Ashes shall be extinguished so that no hot coal or fire remains. No
ashes shall be mixed with garbage, rubbish, construction or demolition waste or
brush.
   C.   Placement For Collection; Return Of Container: All refuse to be
collected shall be placed so as not to present a hazard to pedestrians or
vehicular traffic along the streets or alleys from which collection shall be
made. Placement of refuse on the owner's property shall constitute
authorization for refuse collectors to enter on said property for the purpose
of collecting refuse deposited thereon. Owners shall return all receptacles to
the place of storage upon the premises within twenty four (24) hours after
having been emptied. (2016 Code)
4-2-3: COLLECTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Residential Customers:
      1.   Street Frontage Collection: Except as hereinafter provided, all
village refuse collection shall be made from the street in front of residential
buildings and commercial buildings qualifying for treatment as residential
buildings.
      2.   Alley Collection: No refuse shall be collected from alleys other
than alleys that conform to the following standards: a) alleys shall have a
public right of way not less than 16.5 feet in width; b) alleys shall contain a
gravel base not less than ten feet (10') wide the entire length of the alley;
c) on each side of the graveled portion of the alley, there shall be a strip
not less than two feet (2') in width which is free of any and all obstructions
including, without limitation: 1) plants and shrubs; 2) trees; 3) garages,
including overhangs; and 4) utility poles.
      3.   Collection Schedule And Limitations:
         a.   Refuse shall be collected once a week according to a collection
schedule established by the contractor, which schedule shall provide for
routine pick up as well as holiday schedules.
         b.   Bulk refuse shall be collected according to the collection
schedule established by the contractor, which schedule shall provide for
regular pick ups.
   B.   Nonresidential Customers:
      1.   School Districts And Other Governmental Entities: All school
districts located within the village or having school sites within the village
requiring refuse collection as well as any other governmental entities having
property locations within the village municipal boundaries and requiring refuse
collection services shall be by arrangements made by contract between the
village, the school district, or other governmental entity and the contracted
waste collector.
      2.   Commercial Buildings And Other Nonresidential Customers: Business,
commercial and other nonresidential buildings, institutions and refuse
collection customers can use the approved waste collector of the village or can
contract this service on their own. The village shall not be liable for damages
to private streets, roadways or private parking areas which might arise due to
the size and weight of refuse collection vehicles. (2016 Code)
4-2-4: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Determination Of Delinquency: The village may refuse to continue refuse
collection service to any customer when the payment of the bill for such
service is two (2) months delinquent. As provided under the laws of the state,
the village may remove garbage or debris from the premises of any owner,
occupant, or refuse collection customer within the village, even when the
aforesaid is delinquent, and village may collect from such owner of the
underlying parcel from which the garbage and debris was removed the reasonable
cost thereof.
   B.   Costs A Lien: If the village incurs a removal cost under this chapter
with respect to any underlying parcel, then that cost is a lien upon that
underlying parcel. This lien is superior to all other liens and encumbrances,
except tax liens and as otherwise provided in subsection D of this section.
   C.   Notice Of Lien:
      1.   To perfect a lien under this section, the village must, within one
year after the removal cost is incurred, file notice of lien in the office of
the county recorder. The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         a.   A description of the underlying parcel that sufficiently
identifies the parcel;
         b.   The amount of the removal cost; and
         c.   The date or dates when the removal cost was incurred by the
village.
      2.   If, for any one parcel, the village engaged in any removal activity
on more than one occasion during the course of one year, then the village may
combine any or all of the costs of each of those activities into a single
notice of lien.
   D.   Exemptions From Lien: A lien under this section is not valid as to:
      1.   Any purchaser whose rights in and to the underlying parcel arose
after the removal activity but before the filing of the notice of lien; or
      2.   Any mortgagee, judgment creditor, or other lienor whose rights in
and to the underlying parcel arose before the filing of the notice of lien.
   E.   Service And Contents Of Notice: The removal cost is not a lien on the
underlying parcel unless a notice is personally served on, or sent by certified
mail to, the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the
property for the taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities. The
notice must be delivered or sent after the removal activities have been
performed, and it must:
      1.   State the substance of this section;
      2.   Identify the underlying parcel by common description; and
      3.   Describe the removal activity.
   F.   Enforcement Of Lien: A lien under this section may be enforced by
proceedings to foreclose as in case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. An action
to foreclose a lien under this section must be commenced within two (2) years
after the date of filing notice of lien.
   G.   Removal By Other Than Village: Any person who performs a removal
activity by the authority of the village may, in his or her own name, file a
lien and foreclose on that lien in the same manner as a village under this
section.
   H.   Failure To File A Foreclosure Action: A failure to file a foreclosure
action does not, in any way, affect the validity of the lien against the
underlying parcel.
   I.   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the lien cost by the owner of the
underlying parcel after notice of lien has been filed, the village (or its
agent under subsection G of this section) shall release the lien, and the
release may be filed of record by the owner at his or her sole expense as in
the case of filing notice of lien.
   J.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the following meanings:
      LIEN COST: The removal cost and the filing costs for any notice of lien
under subsection C of this section.
      REMOVAL ACTIVITY: Any activity for which a removal cost was incurred.
      REMOVAL COST: The village cost to remove garbage and refuse from an
underlying parcel.
      UNDERLYING PARCEL: A parcel of private property upon which a removal
activity was performed.
      YEAR: A three hundred sixty five (365) day period.
   K.   Effect Of Provisions: This section applies only to liens filed after
August 14, 2009 (the effective date of public act 96-462). (2016 Code)
4-2-5: USE OF LANDSCAPE WASTE RECYCLING CENTER:
All landscape waste including, but not limited to, leaves, grass clippings,
landscape trimmings, and shrub trimmings should be placed in the landscape
recycling center/bunker behind the township building. All brush, tree limbs,
whole trees, whole bushes, whole shrubs, pallets, railroad ties, building
materials, garbage, trash, containers, bags, or other nonlandscape waste, as
posted, are not allowed. (2016 Code)
4-2-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Improper Storage Or Placement Of Refuse: A person commits the offense
of improper refuse storage or placement for collection if he stores, deposits
or leaves refuse containers in a place other than in compliance with section
4-2-2 and subsection
4-2-3A of this chapter. Violators of this subsection will be charged a fine of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each offense.
   B.   Interference With Refuse Collection: A person commits the offense of
interference with refuse collection if he obstructs, interferes with or hampers
any refuse collector in the process of collecting refuse. Violators of this
subsection will be charged a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense.
(2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Restrictions Generally
4-3-3: Burning Of Landscape Waste
4-3-4: Provisions Additional To State Regulations
4-3-5: Penalties
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
(2016 Code)
4-3-2: RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY:
No person shall cause or allow open burning of any combustible material or
refuse, conduct any salvage operation by open burning, or cause or allow the
burning of any refuse or combustible material in any chamber not specifically
designed for the purpose and approved by the Illinois environmental protection
agency pursuant to regulations adopted by the Illinois air pollution control
board; except, that it shall be lawful for any person to burn landscape waste
upon the premises where it is produced or at sites provided and supervised by
the village, when such burning shall take place between sunup and sundown, and
when such burning is conducted in a manner and under such conditions as will
create the least visibility hazards on adjacent roadways, walkways and railroad
tracks, and will create the least amount of pollutants reasonably possible at
such time; further, except it shall also be lawful for any person to set fire
to, ignite or burn any combustible material in any outdoor fireplace, grill or
barbecue pit if:
   A.   Such fire is used solely for the purpose of cooking; and
   B.   Such fire is kept under competent and continuous supervision; and
   C.   All such burning is a distance of thirty feet (30') from other
residences and properties so as to not be a nuisance, constitute a fire hazard
or impair the breathing of free air to adjacent persons or property owners; and
   D.   All fires or coals in said fireplace, grill or barbecue pit are
thoroughly extinguished after the use thereof has been completed. (2016 Code)
4-3-3: BURNING OF LANDSCAPE WASTE:
The burning of landscape wastes in the open air and under proper regulations
shall be permitted so long as the same is not in conflict with the provisions
of the acts of the state and its subsidiary agencies relative to the burning of
landscape wastes in open air. (2016 Code)
4-3-4: PROVISIONS ADDITIONAL TO STATE REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall embrace, but not be in conflict with, the provisions of an
act to protect the environment of the state, and to repeal certain acts therein
named, being 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq. (2016 Code)
4-3-5: PENALTIES:
A fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be charged for each violation of
any provision of this chapter. The resident will also be responsible for any
additional administrative and abatement costs. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1362, 12-
6-2022)
CHAPTER 4
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Restrictions Generally
4-4-3: Littering From Vehicles Or On Public Property
4-4-4: Accumulation Of Litter Prohibited
4-4-5: Violations; Penalties
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
LITTER: Any discarded, used or consumed substance or waste. "Litter" may
include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris, rubbish,
grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines, glass,
metal, plastic or paper containers or other packaging, construction material,
motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcasses of dead animals, any nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind, any object likely to injure any person or create
a traffic hazard, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which
has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Has the meaning ascribed to that term in 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-146.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, or any other legal entity, or
his or its legal representative, agent or assign. (2016 Code)
4-4-2: RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY:
No person shall dump, deposit, throw, discard, leave, or cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter upon
any public or private property within the corporate limits of the village or
upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or other body of water within the
corporate limits of the village unless:
   A.   The property has been designated by the village for the disposal of
litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in accordance with the
applicable rules and regulations of the pollution control board;
   B.   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container by the owner
or tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of litter;
   C.   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the property
or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful possession,
or the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or tenant and in
addition, under the ordinances of the village, does not create a public health
or safety hazard, a public nuisance, or a fire hazard;
   D.   The person is acting under the direction of proper public officials
during special cleanup days; or
   E.   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency situation
where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly disposes of
such litter when the emergency situation no longer exists. (2016 Code)
4-4-3: LITTERING FROM VEHICLES OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise
dispose of litter from any motor vehicle upon any public street, upon any
public or private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or
other body of water within the corporate limits of the village except as
permitted in this chapter. Nor shall any person transport by any means, garbage
or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business or other site to and
deposit such material in, around or on top of trash barrels or other
receptacles placed along public streets or at any village park or other village
property.
   B.   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated this chapter, but that presumption
may be rebutted. (2016 Code)
4-4-4: ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED:
No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements onto the real property of another
person. (2016 Code)
4-4-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Persons who violate this chapter are subject to the following
penalties:
      1.   Any person convicted of a violation of this chapter is guilty of a
petty offense and shall be fined for the first conviction, fifty dollars
($50.00); for the second conviction, one hundred dollars ($100.00); and for a
third or subsequent conviction, two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      2.   In addition to any fine imposed under this subsection A, the court
may order that the person convicted of such a violation remove and properly
dispose of the litter, may employ special bailiffs to supervise such removal
and disposal, and may tax the costs of such supervision as costs against the
person so convicted.
   B.   The penalties prescribed in this section are in addition to, and not in
lieu of, any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities otherwise
imposed or conferred by law. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 5
PLANTS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Weeds Prohibited; Nuisance Declared
4-5-2: Height Restrictions
4-5-3: Barberry Bushes Prohibited
4-5-4: Penalties
4-5-1: WEEDS PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other weeds
of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the Village are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in any such place. (2016 Code)
4-5-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Any grass, weeds or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other
ornamental plants, allowed to grow to a height exceeding eight inches (8")
anywhere in the Village are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be
unlawful to permit any such weeds, grass or plants, other than those aforesaid,
to grow to such height in any place within the Village. (Ord. 1315, 7-3-2018)
4-5-3: BARBERRY BUSHES PROHIBITED:
It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of the bush
of the species of tall, common or European barberry, also known as Berberis
vulgaris, or its horticultural varieties, within the Village. (2016 Code)
4-5-4: PENALTIES:
A fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be charged for each violation of any
provision of this chapter. The resident will also be responsible for any
additional administrative and abatement costs. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-
6-2022)
CHAPTER 6
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Nuisances Declared
4-6-2: Unsheltered Storage Of Personal Property
4-6-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
   A.   Owning, leasing, occupying, managing or having possession of any
premises in the Village in such manner that any of the following conditions are
found to exist thereon shall be considered a nuisance:
      1.   The premises is a detriment to public health, safety or general
welfare.
      2.   The premises is so defective, unsightly, or in such condition of
disrepair that it substantially diminishes the value of surrounding property or
is otherwise substantially detrimental to surrounding properties. Manifestation
of this condition shall include, but shall not be limited to, the keeping on,
or disposing on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the following:
         a.   Junk, trash or debris.
         b.   Abandoned, discarded or unusable objects or equipment such as
furniture, stoves, hot water heaters, refrigerators, or freezers.
         c.   Stagnant water in an excavation.
         d.   Any device, decoration, design, fence or structure which is
unsightly by reason of its inappropriate location.
      3.   The premises is so out of harmony or conformity with the maintenance
standards of adjacent properties as to cause substantial diminution of the
enjoyment, use, or property values of such adjacent properties.
      4.   The premises is abandoned, boarded up, partially destroyed, or left
unreasonably in a state of partial construction.
      5.   Buildings have dry rot, warping, or termite infestation.
      6.   The premises has a substantial number of broken windows which cause
hazardous conditions and invite trespassers and malicious mischief.
      7.   The landscaping on the premises has not been maintained as follows:
         a.   The majority of plant materials have not been adequately
irrigated and maintained and are dead or dying; (Ord. 1231, 7-1-2008)
         b.   Lawns have grown over a height as established in section
4-5-2 of this title or shrubs have not been trimmed and are overhanging public
rights-of-way;
         c.   Noxious weeds have grown over a height as established in section
4-5-2 of this title and have not been removed; or (Ord. 1231, 7-1-2008; amd.
Ord. 1315, 7-3-2018)
         d.   Dead or diseased plantings have not been removed or replaced.
      8.   The exterior of commercial establishments or multi-family buildings
has not been maintained so as to present a neat and orderly appearance which is
compatible with the area as follows:
         a.   A substantial number of windows are cracked or broken;
         b.   Painted surfaces are substantially cracked or peeling or the
paint has deteriorated to the point where the bare surface is substantially
exposed; or
         c.   The building has otherwise not been substantially maintained.
      9.   Parking lots have not been repaired or cracks, potholes or other
breaks in the parking lot surface have not been filled.
   B.   Any person violating any provision of this section, upon conviction,
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for each offense. Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 1231, 7-1-2008)
4-6-2: UNSHELTERED STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions: The terms "unsheltered storage" and "unsheltered parking",
when used in this section, are defined to be storage or parking other than in a
completely enclosed building.
   B.   Unsheltered Storage Prohibited:
      1.   Junked, Unsafe Vehicles And Equipment:
         a.   Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked, and other
vehicles, including trailers, snowmobiles and watercraft of all sorts, not in
good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, used machinery,
implements, and/or equipment, nonfunctional equipment and personal property of
any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured, which hereinafter are collectively described as "personal
property", for a period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed
junkyards) within the corporate limits of the Village is hereby declared to be
a nuisance and dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare.
         b.   Any vehicle, including trailers, snowmobiles, and watercraft of
all sorts, not in good and safe operating condition, and any other vehicle,
machinery, implements, and/or equipment, nonfunctional equipment and personal
property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for
which it was manufactured, removed from any public thoroughfare, public
property, or private property, and returned to any public thoroughfare or
public property within the Village, or to the same private premises within one
year from the date of its removal shall be deemed not to have been removed from
the premises within the aforesaid thirty (30) day period and thus shall be
deemed prima facie a violation of the prohibition against the same remaining on
a described premises for more than thirty (30) days.
      2.   Trailers And Wagons:
         a.   Unsheltered parking of any truck-trailer, flatbed trailer,
semitrailer, or any other kind of wheeled vehicle, wagon, flatbed wagon, and
any other type of vehicle customarily used to haul commodities, goods, or
personal property, and customarily pulled by a motor driven vehicle, for a
period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed junkyards) on any public
way, public property, or private property, within the corporate limits of the
Village, unless the same is used as temporary storage for a construction
project on the premises, in which event, unsheltered parking of the aforesaid
vehicle on private property shall be allowed for not more than one hundred
twenty (120) days total in one calendar year, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare.
         b.   Any such vehicle removed from any public thoroughfare, public
property, or private property, and returned to the same premises within one
year from the date of its removal shall be deemed not to have been removed from
the premises within the aforesaid thirty (30) day period (or 120 day temporary
construction period) and thus shall be deemed prima facie a violation of the
prohibition against the same remaining on a described premises for more than
thirty (30) days.
         c.   This subsection B2 shall not be construed to permit the parking
of any vehicle on public property for up to thirty (30) days if such parking is
in violation of any other State Statute or provision of this Code requiring
removal of such vehicle in a shorter time period.
         d.   Major recreational equipment and utility trailers of not more
than twenty five feet (25') in length from the furthest point of the rear of
the trailer to the furthest point forward on the hitch of the trailer are
exempted from the requirements of this subsection B2. "Major recreational
equipment" is hereby defined to mean a travel trailer (a vehicular, portable
structure built on a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for
travel, recreational or vacation uses, or 1 permanently identified as a "travel
trailer" by the manufacturer of the trailer); a pickup coach (a structure
designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for
travel, recreation and vacation use); a motor home (a portable, temporary
dwelling to be used for travel, recreation and vacation, constructed as an
integral part of a self-propelled vehicle); a camping trailer (a canvas,
material or metal folding structure, mounted on wheels, and designed for
travel, recreation and vacation use); a boat, boat trailer, snowmobile and
snowmobile trailer. "Utility trailer" is defined, for purposes of this
subsection B2, to be any trailer having not more than two (2) axles, and
weighing, with a load, not more than two thousand (2,000) pounds and being not
longer than twenty five feet (25') from the rear most portion of the trailer to
the front most tip of the hitch of said trailer. No more than one travel
trailer, one boat and boat trailer combination, one snowmobile trailer and one
utility trailer may be located on a residential premises (house and lots) at
any given time, and any such trailers must be licensed if required to be
licensed under the Motor Vehicle Code of the State.
   C.   Abatement Procedures:
      1.   Abatement By Owner: The owners, tenants, lessees, and/or occupants
of any lot or premises within the corporate limits of the Village upon which
storage of those items of personal property listed in subsections B1 and B2 of
this section is made, and also the owners and/or lessees of said personal
property involved in such storage (all of whom are hereinafter referred to
collectively as "owners"), shall jointly and severally abate said nuisance by
the removal within twenty one (21) days of said personal property into
completely enclosed buildings authorized to be used for such storage purposes,
if within the corporate limits of the Village, or otherwise to remove said
personal property to a location outside the limits of the Village.
      2.   Abatement By Village; Costs; Sale Of Property: Whenever said owners
fail to abate said nuisance, the Village shall remove, or hire to remove, the
said personal property to a location of its selection, and the expenses
therefor shall be billed to said owners, jointly and severally, said expenses
to be recoverable in a suit at law. The removal shall be made in accordance
with notice provisions as set forth in subsection
4-1-4B of this title. When said personal property has been removed and placed
in storage by the Village, as provided herein, said personal property shall be
sold by the Village after the lapse of such time as is provided in regard to
the provisions set forth for notice. If the proceeds of such sale are
insufficient to pay the costs of abatement, the owners shall be liable to the
Village for the balance of the costs, jointly and severally, to be recoverable
in a suit at law. If the proceeds are in excess of such costs, the balance of
such proceeds shall be paid to said owners, or deposited in the Village
Treasury for their use. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definition
4-7-2: Nuisance Declared; Prohibitions
4-7-3: Notice To Remove
4-7-1: DEFINITION:
The term "inoperable motor vehicle", when used in this chapter, shall mean any
vehicle from which, for a period of at least thirty (30) days, the engine,
wheels, or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or
other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle
is incapable of being driven under its own motor power. (2016 Code)
4-7-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   The open storage of inoperable motor vehicles on private property is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   B.   Except as otherwise expressly permitted in this code, no person may
permit an "inoperable motor vehicle", as defined in section
4-7-1 of this chapter, which he or she owns, to be stored in the open in the
village.
   C.   Except as otherwise expressly permitted in this code, no person may
permit an "inoperable motor vehicle", as defined in section
4-7-1 of this chapter, to be stored on property which he or she owns or
occupies in the village. (2016 Code)
4-7-3: NOTICE TO REMOVE:
Whenever it appears that an inoperable motor vehicle is being stored in the
open on private property, the chief of police or his designee may issue a
notice of violation to the titleholder of the vehicle and/or the record owner
or any adult occupant of the property on which it is located. Said notice shall
state the make of the vehicle and, if known, the license number and VIN. The
notice shall further state that the vehicle is inoperable and require that
within twenty one (21) days, the vehicle be made operable, removed from the
village or enclosed so that it is not visible from public property. The notice
shall either be personally delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. Any person receiving such notice who does not make operable, remove
from the village or enclose said vehicle shall be guilty of a violation of
section
4-7-2 of this chapter. The fine for said violation shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00), plus any and all administrative expenses. A separate violation shall
be deemed committed each day that the condition persists beyond the expiration
of the twenty one (21) day notice. Thereafter, the village may file a complaint
in the county circuit court for an ordinance violation. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 8
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-8-1: Noise Prohibited
4-8-2: Noisy Conditions Enumerated
4-8-1: NOISE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or cause to be made, create or
maintain loud, unnecessary, unnatural or unusual noises which are prolonged in
their time, place and use, and which affect and are a detriment to the public
health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents
of the village, or which annoy, disturb, injure or endanger the comfort,
repose, health, peace or safety of others, within the limits of the village.
(2016 Code)
4-8-2: NOISY CONDITIONS ENUMERATED:
The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but said enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive:
   A.   Horns And Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street or public
place of the village, except as a danger warning, or the sounding of any such
devices for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
   B.   Radios And Disc Players: The using, operating, or permitting to be
played, used or operated, any radio receiving set, musical instrument, compact
disc player, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of
sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for
convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or
chamber in which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary
listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, compact disc
player, machine or device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of fifty feet (50') from the building, structure or vehicle in which
it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this subsection.
   C.   Yelling And Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing
on the public streets, particularly between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. or at any time or place so as to annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any office, or in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or any person in the vicinity.
   D.   Building Construction And Repair:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to operate any and all construction equipment,
power and manual equipment and machinery including, but not limited to,
staplers, hammers, saws, compressors, generators, pile drivers, heavy
equipment, paving or moving equipment, within three hundred (300) yards of any
residence, care facility or hospital between the following hours and times:
         Monday through Friday - 9:00 P.M. to 7:00 A.M.
         Saturday - 9:00 P.M. Friday through 8:00 A.M. Saturday.
         Sunday and national holidays - 9:00 P.M. Saturday or the day preceding
a holiday through 10:00 A.M. Sunday or the holiday.
      2.   Construction activity for emergencies may be allowed during the
restricted time periods stated in subsection D1 of this section only upon the
issuance of a permit by the village building and zoning department.
   E.   Noise Outside And Near Certain Establishments: The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while the same is in use, or adjacent to any hospital or care
home, which unreasonably interferes with the working of such institution, or
which disturbs or unduly annoys patients or residents in the hospital or care
home, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets indicating that
the same is a school, hospital, care home or court. (2016 Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created; Purpose
5-1-2: Appointments And Promotions
5-1-3: Powers And Duties Of Chief
5-1-4: Duties Of Police Officers
5-1-5: Witness Fees
5-1-6: Qualifications Of Part Time Officers
5-1-7: Rules And Regulations
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is created a police department, an executive department of the village,
consisting of the police chief and such numbers of full time or part time
lieutenants, sergeants and police officers as may be provided by the board of
trustees. The department is established to protect lives and property within
the corporate boundaries of the village, to enforce federal and state statutes,
and village ordinances, and to perform related police functions. (Ord. 1246, 1-
5-2010)
5-1-2: APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS:
The police chief shall be appointed by the village president, with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees. All original appointments to the police
department and promotions within the police department, other than the police
chief and nonsworn personnel, shall be made by the police chief, with the
advice and consent of the village president. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
5-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF:
The police chief shall direct the police work of the village, assign duties to
the members of the department and be responsible for the enforcement and
maintenance of law and order. He shall be responsible for the performance of
the police department and all of its functions. All persons who are members of
the department shall serve subject to the orders of the police chief. The
police chief shall perform those duties prescribed by the rules and regulations
governing the police department, approved by the president and the board of
trustees and shall, in addition, perform the following duties:
   A.   Make arrangements for jail facilities and have custody of all persons
incarcerated therein.
   B.   Keep such books and records and make such reports concerning the
activities of the police department as may be required by the president and
board of trustees and by applicable law.
   C.   Provide for the custody, care and control of the public property of the
police department, including all vehicles, firearms and other equipment of the
department, and have custody and control of all recovered lost, abandoned or
stolen property within the village.
   D.   Preserve the peace, order and safety of the village.
   E.   Execute and enforce the state and federal laws, all village ordinances,
police regulations and orders of the president and board of trustees.
   F.   Protect the rights of persons and property within the village.
   G.   Study police problems and manners of public welfare and administration
as related to crime and law enforcement and make recommendations regarding
these matters to the president and board of trustees.
   H.   Investigate, study and recommend to the president and board of
trustees, upon such request, traffic regulations, routines and changes for the
improvement of traffic and safety conditions within the village. (Ord. 1246, 1-
5-2010)
5-1-4: DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
It shall be the duty of all members of the police department to enforce all
provisions of this code and state and federal laws, to preserve order, to
prevent infractions of the law, and to arrest persons violating the law. Each
member of the police department shall obey the order and direction of his or
her superior(s) and shall perform the duties as prescribed by the rules and
regulations governing the police department, or by general orders issued by the
police chief. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
5-1-5: WITNESS FEES:
Every member of the police department shall appear as a witness whenever
necessary to prosecute a violation of an ordinance or of any state or federal
law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as a witness in
any action or suit to which the village is a party. Any fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the police chief who shall deposit the same
with the village treasurer. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
5-1-6: QUALIFICATIONS OF PART TIME OFFICERS:
To qualify for employment as a part time police officer, an applicant must, at
a minimum, possess the following qualifications:
   A.   Personal Characteristics: The officer must be at least twenty one (21)
years of age, must possess a high school diploma or an equivalent high school
education, must be of outstanding moral character, must be in good general
health, must possess a valid Illinois driver's license, and must successfully
complete a background check.
   B.   Certification: Every police officer must be certified by the Illinois
law enforcement training standards commission.
   C.   Testing: The officer must be able to pass such competitive written
testing, physical testing, psychological testing, drug and/or alcohol testing
and any other testing or criteria as may be established and required by the
police commission. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
5-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The police chief shall make such rules and regulations or shall issue
such general orders for the conduct and guidance of the police department
personnel as he or she shall deem advisable. Such rules and regulations, when
approved by the president and board of trustees, shall be binding on such
members. Police department personnel are also covered by the personnel rules
and regulations of the village.
   B.   The village shall adopt rules and regulations for the members of the
police department. Such rules are incorporated herein as part of this chapter
as if fully set out verbatim herein. These rules may be supplemented by other
rules, regulations or general orders that may be forthcoming from the police
chief or the president and board of trustees consistently with this chapter and
laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 1246, 1-5-2010)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
5-2-1: Agency Created; Purpose; Composition
5-2-2: Coordinator
5-2-1: AGENCY CREATED; PURPOSE; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created the Hudson EMA to prevent, minimize, repair, and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by explosion of
atomic or other means from without or by means of sabotage or other disloyal
actions within, or from fire, flood, earthquake, telecommunications failure or
other natural or technological causes, in accordance with the "Illinois
emergency management act". The EMA shall consist of the coordinator and such
additional members as may be selected by the coordinator. (Ord. 1072, 10-1-
1985; amd. 2016 Code)
5-2-2: COORDINATOR:
The EMA Coordinator shall be appointed by the Village President, with the
advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. (2016 Code; amd. Ord.
1378, 4-2-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Keeping Of Animals
5-3-2: Running At Large
5-3-3: Animals Prohibited From Public Spaces
5-3-4: Confinement Of Female Dogs
5-3-5: Noisy, Menacing Dogs
5-3-6: Dangerous, Vicious Dogs
5-3-7: Animal Bites; Rabies Control
5-3-8: Excrement Removal Required
5-3-9: Dead Animals
5-3-10: Damage To Garbage Containers Or Receptacles
5-3-11: Animal Abuse, Abandonment, And Neglect
5-3-12: Enforcement
5-3-13: Exemptions From Provisions
5-3-1: KEEPING OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Allowable Animals; Exceptions:
      1.   Allowable Animals: Only the following animals and no others may be
kept or harbored within the corporate limits of the Village: (a) domesticated
cats, (b) domesticated dogs, (c) domesticated hen chickens (females of the
species Gallus gallus domesticus or (d) any amphibians, birds, fish, insects,
mammals, or reptiles if such animals are kept or harbored within the dwelling
of the owner and are non-venomous and weigh less than five (5) pounds. No other
animals may be kept within the corporate limits of the Village, including pigs,
hogs, swine, goats, chickens, ducks, horses, ponies, or primates of any kind.
      2.   Prohibited Animals: All other wild, tamed, or domesticated animals
are prohibited. Any such prohibited animal that is kept or harbored within the
corporate limits of the Village will be declared a nuisance and may be
impounded by a police officer.
      3.   Exceptions: Animals that are maintained by a zoological park, humane
society, Federally licensed exhibit, veterinary clinic, veterinary hospital, or
educational institutions are not regulated by the provisions of this
subsection.
      4.   Number Of Dogs And/Or Cats: A kennel is defined as any premises or
portion thereof in which four (4) or more dogs, four (4) or more cats, or a
combination of dogs and cats totally four (4) or more, each over four (4)
months of age are kept or cared for, regardless of whether on a temporary or
permanent basis. Kennels are a permitted use only in the C-2 General Commercial
District.
   B.   Keeping Of Hen Chickens:
      1.   License Required; Roosters: No person shall keep or harbor a live
hen or hens within the corporate limits of the Village unless a license has
been issued as set forth in this subsection. Roosters are prohibited.
      2.   Parcels Where Allowed: Licenses will be granted only to persons who
reside on parcels with single-family or two-family dwellings. If the dwelling
is a rental unit, both the lessor and the lessee must sign the required
license.
      3.   Number Allowed: A maximum of four (4) hens per zoning lot will be
allowed. A zoning lot consisting of multiple platted lots shall be considered
one zoning lot.
      4.   Housing:
         a.   No hen shall be permitted to run at large in the Village. All
hens shall be confined to a coop or a coop with a run, where a run is defined
as an outdoor area that is enclosed on all vertical sides and top by fencing
that is sufficient to hold chickens. The fencing on the vertical sides must be
16-gauge or greater. The run must be attached to, or must surround, a chicken
coop that includes a doorway or hatch that allows access into the run by
chickens.
         b.   The coop must be built so as to provide ventilation, shade,
protection from precipitation, and protection from cold weather. All coops with
power must be GFI protected. When windows or doors, other than access doors for
chickens, are open for ventilation, they must be covered by wire mesh or
screens to deter predators, wild birds, and rodents. Access doors must be sized
and placed for ease of cleaning the coop.
         c.   The coop shall provide a minimum of four (4) square feet of
surface area per hen, and the run shall provide a minimum of eight (8) square
feet of surface area per hen.
         d.   Coops and runs are considered to be "accessory structures" as
defined in this Code, and they must meet all standards and regulations as
outlined therein. Coops and runs with a combined surface area that exceeds one
hundred twenty (120) square feet require a building permit. If a coop or coop
with run is to be placed or erected on a property that contains two (2)
existing accessory structures, then either: 1) one of the existing accessory
structures must to be removed, or 2) the coop or coop with run must be attached
to one of the existing structures, subject to approval by the Village Zoning
Board.
         e.   A coop or coop with run is allowed in a rear yard but not in a
side or front yard. The coop or coop with run must be located at least five
feet (5') from the property line and at least fifty feet (50') from any
neighboring structure(s).
      5.   Sanitation:
         a.   The coop or coop with run shall be maintained in clean, dry and
sanitary conditions at all times. Excrement, uneaten or discarded feed,
feathers and other waste must be removed at least twice per week. Excrement may
be stored temporarily, but it must be removed from the property at least once
per week.
         b.   Excrement that is not removed from the property may be composted,
but not within thirty feet (30') of a neighboring structure.
         c.   Odors emanating from coops, runs, or composting excrement shall
not be detectable from a neighboring dwelling or the area immediately
surrounding the dwelling, including any closely associated buildings and
structures.
         d.   Neither excrement nor dead hens may be disposed of at a Village
disposal site or at a Village landscape waste collection center.
         e.   Feed to be consumed by hens must be stored in a fully enclosed,
rodent proof container.
      6.   Licensing:
         a.   The fee for obtaining a license to keep or harbor hen chickens
shall be forty eight dollars ($48.00) per annum. All licenses shall expire on
August 31; therefore, the fee for a license obtained after September 1 shall be
prorated to four dollars ($4.00) per month proceeding from the first day of the
month in which the license is obtained. Renewal of a license requires an
inspection of the coop or coop with run by the Village Zoning Officer.
         b.   The Village may deny a license to any person who:
            (1)   Owes money to the Village; or
            (2)   Has had two (2) or more zoning violations under this
subsection within the last two (2) years.
         c.   If the licensee is convicted of cruelty to animals, the license
will be immediately and permanently revoked.
         d.   Licenses for keeping or harboring hen chickens are non-
transferrable.
      7.   Enforcement:
         a.   A person found to be keeping or harboring hen chickens without a
license will have seven (7) days from notification to obtain such license.
         b.   A licensee must allow inspection of the coop or coop with run by
the Village Zoning Officer following receipt of a complaint.
         c.   A licensee found to be in violation of any portion of this
subsection B will have seven (7) days from notification to achieve and prove
compliance. If compliance is not achieved, the Village Zoning Officer may
revoke the license for the remainder of the permit year, which ends August 31.
The licensee may elect to apply for a new license after August 31 if the coop
or coop with run is found to be in compliance.
         d.   If a licensee is alleged to be in violation of any portion of
this subsection B for a third (3rd) time, the Village Zoning Officer may
request a hearing with the Village Zoning Board. If the Village Zoning Board
finds the licensee to be in violation, the Village Zoning Officer shall
immediately and permanently revoke the license.
         e.   Keeping or harboring hen chickens without a license will result
in a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day, with a maximum not to exceed seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Failure to forfeit a license to a City
official upon request will result in a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per day,
with a maximum not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
   C.   Definitions. For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms and
phrases shall have the meaning herein prescribed unless context clearly
indicates otherwise:
      KEEPING OR HOUSING: An animal includes both permanent possession and
temporary control or custody of the animal.
(Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; amd. Ord. 1319, 1-8-2019; Ord. 1349, 1-5-2021; Ord.
1388, 2-4-2025)
5-3-2: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Definition:
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY: When used in this Chapter means the owner of an animal
and any individual or entity who has custody, control, or legal authority over
an animal. This includes, without limitation, the owner, tenant, caretaker, or
any person to whom the animal is entrusted-even temporarily-for purposes of its
care, supervision, or management. If more than one person has custody, control,
or legal authority over an animal, each Responsible Party shall be jointly and
severally liable for any violation of this Chapter. Each Responsible Party
shall be held responsible for any failure to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter.
      RUNNING AT LARGE: When used in this section, means any instance in which
an animal is found off the premises of its Responsible Party and is not under
the immediate physical control or confinement by a leash, chain, cord, or
secure enclosure off the premises of the owner and not under physical restraint
by means of a leash, cord, chain, rope or confined by means of a secure
enclosure.
   B.   Dogs:
      1.   Prohibited; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful to for a Responsible
Party to permit to run at large any dog on the public streets, parks, or other
public property of the Village, or on private property where the Responsible
Party of the dog has not obtained permission from the property owner. If any
dog shall be found running at large upon public property or upon the private
premises of any person other than the owner or keeper of such dog, the
Responsible Party shall be deemed guilty of violation of this subsection. The
provisions of this subsection shall not apply to dogs leading blind persons or
for other guide dogs used for assistance, or to dogs exhibited at dog or pet
shows or dog training schools, or dogs belonging to a law enforcement agency
being used for law enforcement purposes.
      2.   Nuisance Declared; Impoundment: Any dog that runs at large is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance, and such dog may be apprehended and impounded
if found running at large by any police officer or other person authorized by
the Village.
   C.   Other Animals: It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horses,
swine, sheep, goats, poultry or any other domesticated animal to run at large
in the Village. Any such animal running at large in any part of the Village
shall be impounded.
   D.   Dangerous Or Vicious Animals: It shall be unlawful to permit any
dangerous or vicious animal, whether wild, tamed, or domesticated, to run at
large in the Village. Village police officers are authorized to kill or
euthanize any dangerous animal when deemed necessary to protect persons or
properties in the Village.
   E.   Diseased Animals: No animal that is afflicted with any contagious
disease or infectious disease shall be allowed to run at large or to be present
in any public space within the Village.
(Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; amd. Ord. 1349, 1-5-2021; Ord. 1388, 2-4-2025)
5-3-3: ANIMALS PROHIBITED FROM PUBLIC SPACES:
   A.   Grazing And Feeding: It shall be unlawful to picket or tie any cattle,
horses, swine, sheep, goats or any other domesticated animals in any public
space of the Village for the purpose of grazing or feeding.
   B.   Parks: It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, walk, lead, or
allow any horse or pony within the confines of any Municipal park within the
Village.
(Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; amd. Ord. 1349, 1-5-2021)
5-3-4: CONFINEMENT OF FEMALE DOGS:
   The owner of a female dog that exhibits signs of being in an estrus cycle
("in heat") shall not keep, harbor or otherwise maintain such dog in the
Village unless the dog is confined to a kennel or an enclosed building on the
owner's premises or confined to a veterinary clinic or veterinary hospital
during the entire period that the dog is "in heat". A female dog "in heat" that
is not properly confined will be declared a public nuisance and may be
impounded upon the order of the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018)
5-3-5: NOISY, MENACING DOGS:
   It shall be unlawful for any Responsible Party to keep, harbor or otherwise
maintain a dog in the Village which shall disturb the quiet of any person or
neighborhood, or that exhibits behavior which constitutes a threat or causes
apprehension of physical harm.
(Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; Ord. 1388, 2-4-2025)
5-3-6: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Definitions:
   DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog which, in an aggressive or terrorizing manner,
approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack on any street, sidewalk
or public property or private property other than the property of the owner of
the dog.
   VICIOUS DOG: 1. Any dog that, when unprovoked, bites a human being while on
public or private property; or
      2.   Any dog which displays a propensity, tendency, or disposition to
attack, without provocation, any human being in such a manner as to endanger a
person; or
      3.   Any dog which has been found to be a dangerous dog on three (3)
separate occasions.
   B.   Confinement Or Leash And Muzzle Required: Any dangerous or vicious dog
shall be confined by the owner at all times in such a manner that it cannot
reach persons who may have occasion to lawfully enter upon said premises. Any
dangerous or vicious dog shall be leashed and muzzled at all times when not
confined.
   C.   Exemptions: No dog shall be deemed dangerous or vicious if it bites,
attacks, or menaces a trespasser on the property of its owner or harms or
menaces anyone who has tormented or abused it or is performing in the line of
duty as a professionally trained dog for law enforcement duties.
   D.   Penalties. The violation of any provision of this section shall subject
the offender, upon conviction, to be punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a first offense, a fine of not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second offense, or a fine of not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third or subsequent offense, nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense. Each day any violation
of any provision of this section shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; amd. Ord. 1349, 1-5-2021)
5-3-7: ANIMAL BITES; RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Animal Bites; Requirements And Restrictions:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal to prevent such
animal from biting or attacking any person in the Village, and if a person is
bitten by an animal, he shall immediately report the incident to the Police
Department.
      2.   Any animal which may, unprovoked, bite or attack any person in the
Village is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and such animal may be
apprehended by a police officer or other person charged with the enforcement of
this chapter.
      3.   If any owner has notice that his animal has bitten any person, it
shall be unlawful for such owner to kill such animal, or sell or give such
animal away, or to permit or allow such animal to be taken beyond the limits of
the Village except to a licensed veterinary hospital, but it shall be the duty
of such owner to immediately report the incident to the Police Department, or
other person charged with enforcement of this chapter, and to immediately place
such animal in a licensed veterinary hospital where such animal may be
quarantined for a period of at least ten (10) days upon the request of any
police officer or other person charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
The owner shall immediately furnish the Police Department or other person
charged with enforcement of this chapter with the name and location of said
hospital and a certificate of a licensed veterinarian stating whether or not
such animal shows symptoms of rabies. At the expiration of the quarantine
period, and prior to the release of such animal, the owner shall furnish the
Police Department or other person charged with enforcement of this chapter with
a certificate of a licensed veterinarian stating that such animal does not have
rabies. All costs of maintaining the animal in the veterinary hospital shall be
the obligation and responsibility of the owner and shall be paid by the owner.
      4.   In all cases where any animal has bitten a person and is slain or
dies within ten (10) days from the time of the bite, it shall be the duty of
the person slaying such animal and the owner of such animal to notify the
Police Department or other person charged with the enforcement of this chapter
and to immediately deliver the carcass of such animal, intact, to the
department, or cause the same to be done.
   B.   Rabies Inoculation And Rabies Tag:
      1.   Inoculation: It shall be the duty of every owner who keeps, harbors,
or otherwise maintains a dog or cat that is more than three (3) months of age
to have such animal inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. Every
owner of an inoculated dog or cat shall maintain a valid rabies certificate
according to the laws of the State of Illinois. The type and brand of anti-
rabies vaccine used and the method of inoculation shall be in accordance with
and evidenced by a rabies tag specified by the applicable laws of the State of
Illinois. Any dog or cat that is not inoculated against rabies as required in
this subsection will be declared a public nuisance and such dog or cat may be
impounded upon the order of the Chief of Police. An animal rabies vaccination
is not valid until the animal is registered with the McLean County Animal
Control Program. Residents new to McLean County must deliver in person or by
mail a copy of the rabies vaccination certificate to the McLean County Animal
Control Center within thirty (30) days of moving into McLean County.
      2.   Collar And Tag: Every owner shall provide for each dog or cat that
is more than four (4) months of age a sturdy collar to which the aforesaid
rabies tag can be securely fastened. It shall be the owner's responsibility to
assure that the collar and tag are worn at all times by the dog or cat.
      3.   Unauthorized Removal Of Tag: It shall be unlawful for any person,
other than a police official, animal warden, or other person charged with the
enforcement of this subsection, to remove a rabies tag from any dog or cat
without the owner's consent or without the consent of the owner's agent's.
   C.   Rabies Suspects:
      1.   Any dog or other animal suffering from rabies is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and such dog or other animal may be slain by any police
officer or such other person charged with the enforcement of this chapter, if
the same cannot be safely apprehended and impounded. It shall be the duty of
any person keeping, harboring or otherwise maintaining any such dog or other
animal to place it immediately in a veterinary hospital or, upon demand, to
surrender such dog or other animal to any police officer or other person
charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
      2.   It shall be the duty of every person who discovers that any dog or
other animal is suffering with rabies or that any dog or other animal has been
bitten by a dog or other animal suffering with rabies to report such fact
immediately to the Police Department. Such report shall give the name, if
known, and the place of residence of the person keeping, harboring or otherwise
maintaining any such dog or other animal and the place where the same can be
found. Any such dog or other animal shall be immediately confined in a
veterinary hospital or taken up and impounded and securely kept until it can be
determined whether any such dog or other animal is suffering with rabies.
   D.   Violation: Violation of subsection B or C of this section will result
in a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; amd. Ord.
1349, 1-5-2021)
5-3-8: EXCREMENT REMOVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in control of any dog to
permit such animal to deposit excrement on any public street, alley, parkway or
other public place or on any private property without the consent of the owner
of the property. It shall be an affirmative defense that the excrement was
immediately picked up and properly disposed of.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any premises to permit excrement
to accumulate on property such that it causes noxious odors or flies to
accumulate.
   C.   Each violation of this section will result in a fifty dollar ($50.00)
fine. (Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018)
5-3-9: DEAD ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall haul, drag, transport, or otherwise move any dead
animal along or upon any street, alley or other public space within the Village
unless such dead animal is wholly covered so as to conceal the same from view.
   B.   No person shall allow the body of, or any part thereof, of any dead
animal to decompose and putrefy at any location within the Village.
   C.   No person shall skin, dismember, butcher, dress, or exhibit any dead
animal in a location that can be viewed by the public.
(Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; amd. Ord. 1349, 1-5-2021)
5-3-10: DAMAGE TO GARBAGE CONTAINERS OR RECEPTACLES:
   A.   The owner of an animal shall be responsible for any damages caused by
tearing up, breaking into, or tipping any Village approved container or
receptacle that holds garbage, trash, or refuse. The consequences of such
actions shall be the sole responsibility of the owner.
   B.   Damage to containers or receptacles may be reported to a Village police
officer. Proof of violation of this section requires a photograph or video of
the animal tearing up, breaking into, or tipping any Village approved container
or receptacle, or observation of such actions by a Village police officer.
(Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; amd. Ord. 1349, 1-5-2021)
5-3-11: ANIMAL ABUSE, ABANDONMENT, AND NEGLECT:
   A.   Cruel Treatment: No person may beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve,
overwork, or otherwise abuse any animal.
   B.   Aggravated Cruelty: No person may intentionally commit an act that
causes a companion animal to suffer serious injury or death. Aggravated cruelty
does not include euthanasia of a companion animal through recognized methods
approved by the Department of Agriculture.
   C.   Poisoning: No person may knowingly poison or cause to be poisoned any
dog or other domesticated animal. The only exception will be by written permit
from the Department of Agriculture for the purpose of controlling diseases
transmissible to humans or other animals and only when all other methods and
means have been exhausted.
   D.   Confinement In Motor Vehicle: No owner or person shall confine any
animal in a motor vehicle in such a manner that places it in a life or health
threatening situation by exposure to a prolonged period of extreme heat or
cold, without proper ventilation or other protection from such heat or cold.
   E.   Accidental Injury Or Death: Any person that accidently strikes and
injures or kills a dog, cat, or other domesticated animal while operating a
motor vehicle or motorcycle in the Village is required to stop and report the
matter to the owner of the animal or to a Village police officer.
   F.   Abandonment: No person may abandon any animal where it may become a
public charge or may suffer injury, hunger, or exposure.
   G.   Duties To Avoid Neglect: Each owner shall provide to each of his
animals sufficient quantity of good quality, wholesome food and water; adequate
shelter and protection from the weather; veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering; and humane care and treatment.
(Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018; amd. Ord. 1349, 1-5-2021)
5-3-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Officials: The Chief of Police and such other persons as
may be designated by him are hereby authorized and directed to enforce this
chapter. The Village Board may, from time to time, and upon such terms and
conditions as it deems proper, contract with any qualified person or
corporation, and may, pursuant to said contract, provide said person or
corporation with the power to enforce the provisions of this chapter. In the
absence of the appointment by the Village Board of any other person or company
as poundmaster, the Chief of Police shall be the poundmaster; the other members
of the Police Department shall assist him under his direction in carrying out
the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Hindering Enforcement Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to hinder or
molest any police officer or person or corporation engaged in the enforcement
of this chapter. Violation of this subsection will result in a fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018)
5-3-13: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to dogs or other animals
receiving treatment or temporary care in a veterinary hospital, boarding kennel
or pet shop. (Ord. 1310, 1-10-2018)
CHAPTER 4
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Resisting Or Delaying An Officer; Obedience Required
5-4-2: Possession Of Cannabis
5-4-2-1: Cannabis Definitions
5-4-2-2: Possession And Use Of Cannabis
5-4-2-3: Public Display Of Cannabis And Public Intoxication
5-4-2-4: Cultivation Of Cannabis
5-4-2-5: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
5-4-2-6: Penalties
5-4-3: Liquor Offenses
5-4-4: Public Indecency Or Nudity
5-4-5: Graffiti
5-4-6: Discharge Of Firearms
5-4-7: Drilling Wells
5-4-1: RESISTING OR DELAYING AN OFFICER; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully resist, hinder or delay any
village officer or any other public officer in the discharge of his official
act or duty, and it shall be unlawful to neglect or refuse to obey any lawful
order or direction of any such officer. Violators will be fined one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each occurrence. (2016 Code)
5-4-2: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Definition: The term "cannabis", as used in this section, includes
marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified as including any
parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof;
the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin,
including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives,
including its naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients,
whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by
means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical
synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber
produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any
other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such
mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or
the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination. (2016
Code)
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess
ten grams (10 g) or less of any substance containing cannabis.
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be
fined not less than three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1288, 9-6-2016)
5-4-2-1: CANNABIS DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
AUTHORIZED AGENT: A person authorized by a Registered Qualifying Patient to
tend his or her cannabis plants, which valid authorization shall be endowed
only by a Power of Attorney or similar written instrument which names the
Agent, is signed by the Registered Qualifying Patient, and has a duration of no
more than two weeks within any six month period.
CANNABIS: Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, "cannabis" does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. "Cannabis" does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. "Cannabis" also means concentrate and
cannabis-infused products.
CANNABIS ACCESSORIES: Any equipment, products, or materials of any kind that
are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, composting, manufacturing, compounded,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, vaporizing, or containing cannabis, or for ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis into the human body as permitted by
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act.
CANNABIS CONCENTRATE: A product derived from cannabis that is produced by
extracting cannabinoids from the plant through the use of propylene glycol,
glycerin, butter, olive oil or other typical cooking fats; water, ice, or dry
ice; or butane, propane, CO2, ethanol, or isopropanol. The use of any other
solvent is expressly prohibited unless and until it is approved by the
Department of Agriculture.
CANNABIS FLOWER: Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified
as including any parts of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives
or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis; including raw kief,
leaves, and buds, but not resin that has been extracted from any part of such
plant; nor any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation
of such plant, its seeds, or resin.
CANNABIS-INFUSED PRODUCT: A beverage, food, oil, ointment, tincture, topical
formulation, or another product containing cannabis that is not intended to be
smoked.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: The meanings ascribed to it in Section 102 of the
Illinois Controlled Substances Act as if that definition were incorporated
herein.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other
than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, which are intended to be
used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body
cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the Cannabis Control Act,
the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, or the Methamphetamine Control and
Community Protection Act or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in
violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. "Drug Paraphernalia"
does not include cannabis accessories if possessed or used by any person 21
years of age or older who is otherwise lawfully permitted to possess or use
cannabis under the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. "Drug Paraphernalia"
includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance;
   B.   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing the
potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled substance;
   C.   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home for
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances;
   D.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
   E.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, hashish oil, or a synthetic
drug product or misbranded drug in violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act into the human body including, where applicable, the following
items:
      1.   Water pipes;
      2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
      3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
      4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
      5.   Carburetor pipes;
      6.   Electric pipes.
FACILITATE THE USE OF CANNABIS: To deliver, transfer, gift, sell, or to
otherwise provide cannabis or cannabis accessories to a person. It shall also
include purchasing cannabis for a person and careless or negligent storage of
cannabis so that it may be easily accessible to a person.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A vehicle driven or drawn by mechanical power and manufactured
primarily for use on public highways but does not include a vehicle operated
exclusively on a rail or rails.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place where a person could reasonably be expected to be
observed by others. "Public place" includes all parts of buildings owned in
whole or in part, or leased, by the State or a unit of local government.
"Public place" does not include a private residence unless the private
residence is used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, or other similar
social service care on the premises.
PUBLIC WAY: The surface of, and the space above and below, any public street,
highway, freeway, bridge, land path, alley, court, boulevard, sidewalk, way,
lane, drive, circle, or other public right-of-way, including, but not limited
to, utility easements, dedicated utility strips, or rights-of-way.
REASONABLY INACCESSIBLE: Out of reach of the driver and any passenger of a
motor vehicle, which includes being in the trunk of the vehicle or the area
behind the last upright seat of a motor vehicle that is not equipped with a
trunk. Areas that are not reasonably inaccessible include, but are not limited
to, the glove compartment, any middle console compartment between the driver's
seat and the front passenger seat, and either under or directly behind the
driver's seat or the front passenger's seat.
REASONABLY SECURED: In a sealed, odor-proof, and child-resistant container.
REGISTERED QUALIFYING PATIENT: The meanings ascribed to it in Section 10 of the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act as if that definition were
incorporated herein.
WHILE ON DUTY: The time period when a person is working during his normal
scheduled hours, during overtime hours when a person is working, and during any
period of time in which a person is "on call" where he or she may be called
upon to perform work duties at any time during that "on call" time period.
(Ord. 1334, 1-7-2020)
5-4-2-2: POSSESSION AND USE OF CANNABIS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to use or
possess cannabis at any time except as otherwise permitted under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1, et seq.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to possess more than 30
grams of cannabis flower, more than 500 milligrams of THC contained in
cannabis-infused product, or more than 5 grams of cannabis concentrate.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess cannabis:
      1.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      3.   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving;
      4.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      5.   In an amount greater than 30 grams for Illinois residents and more
than 15 grams for out of state residents;
      6.   In any part of a building owned in whole or in part, or leased, by
the Village of Hudson; or
      7.   In any other manner prohibited by state statutes, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use cannabis:
      1.   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      2.   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      3.   In any motor vehicle;
      4.   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide licensed
child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      5.   In any public place; or
      6.   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21 years of
age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      7.   While on duty by a person who has a school bus permit or a
Commercial Driver's License.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke cannabis in any place
where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free Illinois Act.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, navigate, or be in
actual physical control of any motor vehicle, aircraft, or motorboat while
using or under the influence of cannabis in violation of Section 11-501 or 11-
502.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person to facilitate the use of cannabis
by any person who is not allowed to use cannabis under the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, 410 ILCS 705/1, et seq., or the Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act.
   H.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transfer cannabis to any person
contrary to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act.
   I.   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess or
have upon any public place or public way in the Village any cannabis on or
about his person except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
(Ord. 1334, 1-7-2020)
5-4-2-3: PUBLIC DISPLAY OF CANNABIS AND PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the Village to display, make a
gift, make available, sell, or offer for sale any cannabis within any public
place or public way in the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the influence of cannabis or
controlled substances to enter or remain within any public place or public way
within the Village. (Ord. 1334, 1-7-2020)
5-4-2-4: CULTIVATION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cultivate cannabis plants within
the Village of Hudson, except for a registered qualifying patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act. It shall be unlawful for any
person who is a registered qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act to cultivate cannabis plants:
      1.   Unless the person has been a resident of the State of Illinois for
more than thirty (30) days before cultivation;
      2.   In excess of five (5) plants that are more than 5 inches tall per
household;
      3.   Outside of an enclosed, locked space;
      4.   Using cannabis seeds purchased from somewhere other than a
dispensary for the purpose of home cultivation, and seeds may not be given or
sold to any other person;
      5.   In a location where they are subject to ordinary public view (within
the sight line with normal visual range of a person, unassisted by visual aids,
from a public street or sidewalk adjacent to real property, or from within an
adjacent property);
      6.   Without reasonable precautions to ensure the cannabis plants are
secure from unauthorized access, including unauthorized access by a person
under twenty-one (21) years of age;
      7.   On non-residential property and property that is not lawfully in the
possession of the cultivator or without the consent of the person in lawful
possession of the property;
      8.   In a dwelling, residence, apartment, condominium unit, enclosed,
locked space, or piece of property which has not been divided into multiple
dwelling units and contains in excess of five (5) plants at any one time; or
      9.   Unless residing at the residence where the cannabis plants are
located, except that a registered qualifying patient's authorized agent may
tend to the cannabis plants if attending to the residence for brief periods,
such as when the qualifying patient is temporarily away from the residence.
(Ord. 1334, 1-7-2020)
5-4-2-5: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Any person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in unlawfully ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing cannabis or a controlled substance into the human body, or in
unlawfully preparing cannabis or a controlled substance for that use, commits
an offense.
   B.   In determining intend under division (A) above, the trier of fact may
take into consideration the proximity of the cannabis or controlled substances
to drug paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or a controlled substance on
the drug paraphernalia. (Ord. 1334, 1-7-2020)
5-4-2-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of this Chapter, inclusive of all
subsections thereof, shall, upon conviction, be assessed a fine of not less
than three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) and not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00).
   B.   Where any person has been convicted of any of the provisions of this
Section at any prior time, then there shall be added to the applicable minimum
fine the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such prior
conviction. (Ord. 1334, 1-7-2020; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
5-4-3: LIQUOR OFFENSES:
   A.   Sales Without License: No person shall sell any alcoholic liquor to any
other person unless the seller has a license to sell liquor in the village. A
violation of this subsection is punishable as provided in section
3-1-18 of this code.
   B.   Consumption, Possession In Public:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or have in his or her
possession, in other than the original package with the seal unbroken, any
alcoholic liquor on any public right of way, street, or sidewalk, or in any
public place other than a liquor establishment appropriately licensed by the
village.
      2.   No person shall possess alcoholic liquor, whether open or sealed, in
any public park.
      3.   Violators of this subsection B will be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00).
   C.   Minors:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic
liquor in his or her possession.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to consume alcoholic liquor.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to represent that he or she is twenty one (21) years of age or over
for the purpose of buying, accepting or receiving alcoholic liquor.
         d.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to present or offer to any licensee, agent or employee any written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of age and identity which is false,
fraudulent, or not actually his or her own for the purpose of ordering,
purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise procuring or attempting to
procure an alcoholic liquor.
         e.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to have in his or her possession any false or fraudulent written,
printed, or photostatic evidence of age and identity.
         f.   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic
liquor, shall give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the
age of twenty one (21) years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony
or service.
         g.   It shall be unlawful for any clerk or employee of a licensed
liquor establishment to give, deliver, or sell alcoholic liquor to another
person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
      2.   Exemptions: The possession and dispensing or consumption by a minor
of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or
the consumption by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the
parents or parent of such minor in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by
this subsection.
      3.   Penalty: Violators of this subsection C will be fined not less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
5-4-4: PUBLIC INDECENCY OR NUDITY:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to expose themselves
in a public place for entertainment in such a manner as to expose to public
view:
         a.   Male or female genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region, or pubic hair region;
         b.   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola;
         c.   Any device, film, costume, or covering which gives the appearance
of or simulates the above listed body parts;
         d.   The use of tassels, pasties, stars, or transparent material for
coverage of the above listed body parts;
         e.   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, or any other sexual acts prohibited by law;
         f.   The touching, caressing, or fondling of the breast, buttocks,
anus, or genitals; or
         g.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any
activities set forth in this subsection A1.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to charge a fee, or to sell,
transfer, exchange or barter for consideration, for any person to enter onto
the premises within which it is possible to view any of the items referenced in
subsection A1 of this section.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to allow a person
under the age of eighteen (18) years on the premises of any establishment in
which it is possible to view in public any of the items referred to in
subsection A1 of this section. (Ord. 1135, 1-4-1994)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense
or violation committed hereunder. (Ord. 1135, 1-4-1994; amd. 2016 Code; Ord.
1363, 12-6-2022)
5-4-5: GRAFFITI:
   A.   Definition: The term "graffiti", as used in this section, shall mean
any drawing, inscription, writing, figure, or mark made upon a wall or other
exposed surface including, but not limited to, any house, garage, rock, bridge,
fence, gate, tree, monument, motor vehicle, sidewalk, street, lamppost, street
sign, underpass, or retaining wall, whether publicly or privately owned, with
paint, chalk, dye, ink, pencil, wax, or other substance or by etching,
scratching, cutting, burning, or carving, without the express consent of the
owner of said wall or other exposed surface.
   B.   Graffiti Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to place
"graffiti", as defined in subsection A of this section, upon any publicly or
privately owned wall or other exposed surface within the village.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who is convicted of violating this section shall be
punishable by a fine not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each wall or exposed surface marked
by graffiti shall constitute a separate offense. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363,
12-6-2022)
5-4-6: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except a peace officer or an officer of
any court whose duty it may be to serve warrants or make arrests, to fire or
discharge any gun, pistol, fowling piece or other firearm, within the corporate
limits of the village, except within a totally enclosed building licensed by
the village to permit the discharge of firearms therein. (2016 Code)
5-4-7: DRILLING WELLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity, or anyone acting as the agent,
employee, or contractor for any person or entity, or owning or leasing or
otherwise controlling real estate in the village to drill any well, whether for
purposes of providing water or exploring for or extraction of petroleum
products or other substances, within the village. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MINORS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Curfew Regulations
5-5-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions:
   CURFEW HOURS:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
      2.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: A person, who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person; or at least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a
parent or guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public have access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To linger, stay or fail to leave premises when requested to do so by
a police officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the
premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Any bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of any function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits
the minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   A violation of this section is a petty offense with a fine of not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00);
except, that neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the
juvenile court act of 1987 nor that person's legal guardian shall be subject to
any fine.
      2.   In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this subsection E,
the court may order a parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a
violation of subsection B of this section to perform community service as
determined by the court; except, that the legal guardian of a person who has
been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court act of 1987 may not be
ordered to perform community service. The dates and times established for the
performance of community service by the parent, legal guardian, or other person
convicted of a violation of subsection B of this section shall not conflict
with the dates and times that the person is employed in his or her regular
occupation. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 6
TOBACCO REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Smoking, Chewing In Village Buildings And Vehicles Prohibited
5-6-3: Minors
5-6-4: Liability For Violations
5-6-5: Penalties
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words have the following meanings:
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
unincorporated association, public or private corporation, joint stock company,
trust, estate, or other legal entity.
SMOKE: To light, emit, or exhale the smoke of a pipe, cigar, cigarette or any
other tobacco product.
VILLAGE BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind and which is permanently
affixed to the ground and which is owned by the village of Hudson. (2016 Code)
5-6-2: SMOKING, CHEWING IN VILLAGE BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
No person shall smoke or chew tobacco in village buildings and vehicles. (2016
Code)
5-6-3: MINORS:
   A.   Sales, Providing To Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm, or corporation to sell, buy for, furnish, exchange, or give away any
cigarettes, cigars, or tobacco in any form to children under the age of twenty-
one (21) years.
   B.   Possession: No minor under twenty-one (21) years of age shall have in
his or her possession any cigar or cigarette or tobacco in any of its forms. It
shall not be a violation of this subsection for any person under twenty-one
(21) years of age to possess tobacco while in the presence of his or her
parents or guardian, or in the performance of a religious ceremony, or while
participating in a theatrical performance, or the incidental and temporary
possession of tobacco in the performance of retail clerk duties for businesses
registered with the village. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1328, 9-3-2019)
5-6-4: LIABILITY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Every act or omission constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any
person shall be deemed and held to be the act of such principal or employer,
and said principal or employer shall be punishable in the same manner as if
said act or omission had been done or omitted by him personally, provided said
act or omission was within the scope of employment or the scope of authority of
such officer, director, manager, or other agent or employee. (2016 Code)
5-6-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates this chapter is guilty of a petty offense and shall be
fined fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense and one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a second or any subsequent offense. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363,
12-6-2022)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Authority To Establish Regulations
6-1-2: Signs Posted
6-1-3: Penalty
6-1-1: AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH REGULATIONS:
The chief of police, by and with the approval of the mayor, is hereby empowered
to make regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of this title
and make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies
of special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulations shall
remain in effect for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. No provision of
this section dealing with temporary or experimental regulations to cover
emergencies or special conditions shall be enforced against an alleged violator
if, at the time and place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in
proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person. All permanent regulations with respect to traffic shall be made by
ordinance duly enacted. (2016 Code)
6-1-2: SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where the parking, standing or
traveling of any vehicle is limited or prohibited, indicating such limitations
or prohibitions. (2016 Code)
6-1-3: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided herein, in the event of a violation of this title,
the fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). If the fine is not paid within
fourteen (14) days or there is a reoccurring offense within a sixty (60) day
period, the cost will be increased to one hundred dollars ($100.00). (2016
Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Method Of Parking
6-2-2: Parking Prohibited In Specific Places
6-2-3: General Parking Restrictions
6-2-4: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
6-2-5: Parking More Than Seventy Two Hours
6-2-6: Truck And Tractor Parking
6-2-7: Parking On Public Streets Prohibited During Snow And/Or Ice Removal
6-2-8: Authority To Relocate Or Request The Removal Of Vehicles
6-2-9: Enforcement And Penalties
6-2-10: Parking Of Recreational Vehicles
6-2-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
No vehicle shall be parked in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of
the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the
right hand or left hand wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the
curb or edge of the roadway; except, that upon those streets that have been
marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb
indicated by markings on the streets. (2016 Code)
6-2-2: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES:
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On any sidewalk or parkway. This restriction shall not apply to
motor driven cycles in approved bicycle parking racks.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         h.   On any railroad tracks. A violation of this subsection A1h shall
result in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fifty (50)
hours of community service.
         i.   On any controlled access highway.
         j.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
         k.   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
         l.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where access to mailboxes will be blocked, Monday
through Saturday, from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
         g.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      4.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers, on the south side of Havens Drive between the mid point of the
intersection of Trimmer Drive at Havens Drive and the west edge of the driveway
belonging to 705 Havens Drive.
      5.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers, on the north side of Havens Drive between the west edge of the
driveway belonging to 610 Havens Drive and the east side of the driveway
belonging to 608 Havens Drive.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (2016
Code; amd. Ord. 1343, 8-4-2020)
6-2-3: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Alleys: No vehicle shall be parked within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway free for the movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   B.   Vehicle Repair Or Washing: No vehicle shall be parked upon any roadway,
public park, or any other public property for the principal purpose of washing,
greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs necessitated by an
emergency. (2016 Code)
   C.   Temporary No Parking: The chief of police or his/her designee, in
cooperation with the streets department, is hereby authorized to determine and
designate, by clearly visible signs, places where the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles would create a hazardous condition or would cause unusual
delay to traffic, including emergency vehicles. Said temporary signs shall not
be posted for more than thirty (30) days. When official signs are erected as
authorized herein, no vehicle shall be stopped or parked in any such designated
place.
   D.   Trailers: No person shall park a trailer that is dropped or unhooked
from a motorized vehicle on any village street. A trailer is any vehicle
without motive power designed for carrying passengers or property and for being
drawn by a motor vehicle. (Ord. 1300, 6-6-2017)
6-2-4: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
The mayor or his/her designee may waive any of the parking regulations of this
chapter for persons with disabilities upon application by such person, or other
person providing transportation or care services to such disabled person, and
upon finding the following:
   A.   The waiver would not create a traffic hazard.
   B.   The waiver would improve the quality of daily life for the disabled
person.
   C.   The waiver is reasonably necessary for the disabled person to enjoy
ordinary life activity.
   D.   Granting the waiver would not cause substantial detriment to the
overall well being of the community. (2016 Code)
6-2-5: PARKING MORE THAN SEVENTY TWO HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a vehicle to permit the
vehicle to remain parked on any public way more than seventy two (72)
consecutive hours without moving the vehicle. The moving of a vehicle from one
area of a block to another area of the same block shall not constitute either
abatement of the parking time or commencement of a new parking time. This
prohibition shall not be enforced against any person parking on any public way
in the village unless either appropriate signs have been erected and are
clearly visible on said public way or a clearly visible sticker has been placed
on the driver's side window or the windshield of the vehicle and the vehicle
remains parked seventy two (72) hours after the placement of the sticker. The
mayor shall have the authority to order the erection of appropriate signs as
provided herein. (2016 Code)
6-2-6: TRUCK AND TRACTOR PARKING:
It shall be unlawful to park a truck-tractor or road tractor, whether with or
without a trailer, or any other vehicle having more than two (2) axles or any
vehicle with a height in excess of eight feet (8') or a gross weight of more
than ten thousand (10,000) pounds on any street, public property in an area in
the Village, except:
   A.   For such temporary parking as is required to load or unload cargo;
   B.   To make minor repairs necessitated by an emergency;
   C.   When the equipment normally stored in or on the truck is in actual use
at the location where the truck is parked. (2016 Code)
6-2-7: PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED DURING SNOW AND/OR ICE REMOVAL:
   A.   When Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public
street in the Village whenever there is potential for frozen precipitation
(snow and/or ice) to accumulate on public streets. If measurable snowfall has
been predicted, or if snow/ice are falling and beginning to accumulate, all
vehicles shall be removed from public streets. This prohibition shall remain in
effect until frozen precipitation (snow and/or ice) has been removed from the
streets.
   B.   Notice Of Prohibited Parking: The Village is not required to give
notice to persons whose vehicles violate this section. However, if time
permits, notice of prohibited parking may be posted on the Village Facebook
page or the Village web page.
   C.   Removal Of Vehicles From Streets: Parked vehicles that interfere with
the removal of ice and/or snow or that create dangerous conditions for Village
employees who are operating snowplows or other snow removal equipment shall be
removed/towed from the streets at the owner's expense. (Ord. 1320, 1-8-2019)
6-2-8: AUTHORITY TO RELOCATE OR REQUEST THE REMOVAL OF VEHICLES:
   A.   In the event any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any
vehicle upon any public way, members of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to remove or relocate any such vehicle from one location to any
other location.
   B.   Any vehicle or equipment that is lawfully parked on a Village street
shall be moved, when in the discretion of the Chief of Police, the location of
the vehicle or equipment creates a safety hazard to the motoring public. (Ord.
1300, 6-6-2017)
6-2-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
The failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or any parking
regulations of this title shall constitute an offense against the Village. The
provisions of enforcement and the penalties shall be as follows:
   A.   The Chief of the Police Department shall cause all sworn members of the
department, as well as those nonsworn personnel assigned to parking enforcement
duties, to monitor specific parking violations and cause nonmoving parking
citations to be issued to violators. Any police officer or other authorized
personnel who shall observe any vehicle parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or any parking regulations of this title shall
attach to such vehicle a notice setting forth such violation. The ticket shall
be issued to the person in whose name such vehicle is registered and licensed
in the Office of the Secretary of State.
   B.   The operator or owner of such unlawfully parked vehicle may pay, unless
otherwise specified by ordinance, at such place as directed on any ticket, the
sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) as the penalty for and in satisfaction of
such violation if such payment is made within seven (7) days of such violation,
and the sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00) if such payment is made later than
seven (7) days but within thirty (30) days of such violation. For payments made
after thirty (30) days, the amount owed shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00).
Each twenty four (24) hour any violation of this chapter or any parking
regulations of this title shall continue shall constitute a separate offense
and shall subject the offender to additional tickets. Accordingly, subsequent
parking tickets may be issued for the same vehicle if said vehicle is still in
violation of this chapter or any parking regulations of this title within
twenty four (24) hours of the previous parking ticket.
   C.   The Chief of the Police Department may authorize voiding of parking
tickets for the following reasons:
      1.   Disabled vehicle;
      2.   Official Village vehicle; and
      3.   Tickets issued in error.
   D.   In addition to the fines set forth herein, any vehicle in violation of
this chapter or any parking regulations of this title may be towed as
authorized by law. (Ord. 1251, 8-3-2010; amd. 2016 Code)
6-2-10: PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Recreational vehicles may be parked unsheltered, as defined in section
4-6-2 of this Code, on a hard surface on private property between April 1 and
October 31. (Ord. 1300, 6-6-2017)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Stop Intersections
6-3-2: Speed Limits
6-3-3: Truck Traffic
6-3-4: Left Turn Prohibited
6-3-1: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
When stop signs or flashing red lights are erected as authorized in this
section at or near the entrance of any such intersection, every driver of a
vehicle approaching a stop sign or flashing red light shall stop and yield the
right of way to approaching traffic as may be necessary before entering the
crosswalk or the near side of the intersection, or in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersecting roadway except when otherwise directed to proceed by a police
officer. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be fined for
a moving violation.
On Chestnut Street at its intersection with East Street.
On Chestnut Street at its intersection with McLean Street.
On Chestnut Street at its intersection with West Street.
On Clinton Street at its intersection with East Street.
On Dove Court at its intersection with South McLean Street, northeast corner.
On East Street at its intersection with Havens Drive.
On East Street at its intersection with Locust Street.
On Front Street at its intersection with Walnut Street.
On Fulton Street at its intersection with Washington Street.
On Fulton Street at its intersection with West Street.
On Havens Drive at its intersection with East Street, on both the east and west
sides of East Street.
On Locust Street at its intersection with East Street.
On Locust Street at its intersection with McLean Street.
On Locust Street at its intersection with West Street.
On Marion Street at its intersection with East Street.
On Marion Street at its intersection with Washington Street.
On McLean Street at its intersection with North Street.
On McLean Street at its intersection with South Street.
On Pearl Street at its intersection with East Street.
On Pheasant Lane at its intersection with South McLean Street.
On Prairieview Drive at its intersection with South McLean Street.
On Shiner Street at its intersection with Walnut Street.
On South McLean Street at its intersection with Hunter Court, southwest corner.
On South McLean Street at its intersection with Prairieview Drive, northwest
corner.
On South McLean Street at its intersection with Prairieview Drive, southeast
corner.
On South McLean Street at its intersection with South Street, southeast corner.
On Trimmer Drive at its intersection with Havens Drive.
On Walnut Street at its intersection with East Street.
On Walnut Street at its intersection with Washington Street.
On Washington Street at its intersection with Havens Drive.
On Washington Street at its intersection with Locust Street.
On Washington Street at its intersection with South Street.
On West Street at its intersection with Pearl Street, northwest corner.
On West Street at its intersection with Pearl Street, southeast corner.
On Wheeler Drive at its intersection with Havens Drive.
On Wheeler Drive at its intersection with Pettit Drive.
On Whitetail Lane, south end, at its intersection with South McLean Street.
(Ord. 1048, 11-6-1979; amd. Ord. 1049, 6-3-1980; Ord. 1068, 9-4-1984; Ord.
1112, 12-4-1990; Ord. 1127, 6-1-1993; Ord. 1139, 10-4-1994; Ord. 1166, 6-1-
1999; Ord. 1179, 11-8-2000; Ord. 1191, 6-4-2002; Ord. 1208, 7-6-2004; Ord.
1213, 6-7-2005; Ord. 1215, 8-2-2005; 2016 Code)
6-3-2: SPEED LIMITS:
When appropriate signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful
for any person to operate a motor vehicle in excess of twenty (20) miles per
hour on the following streets in the village. Any person convicted of violating
any provision of this section shall be fined as provided in the Illinois state
vehicle code.
Between Franklin Street and Pearl Street, when children are present.
On Shiner Street between Franklin Avenue and Walnut Street.
   On South West Street, when children are present.
(Ord. 1128, 6-1-1993; amd. Ord. 1180, 12-5-2000; 2016 Code)
6-3-3: TRUCK TRAFFIC:
   A.   Truck Traffic Prohibited; Exemptions: The operation of trucks and
commercial vehicles in excess of sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds gross shall
be prohibited on the following streets in the village which shall be posted by
direction of the village board of trustees:
All streets except Shiner Street, Front Street, Franklin Street, Broadway
Street, and Walnut Street west of Broadway Street.
   B.   Exempt Vehicles: Limitation provisions of this section shall not apply
to fire apparatus or vehicles operating under a franchise or agreement with the
village for collection of trash or garbage.
   C.   Permit For Exemption: Upon application, village board may issue a
special permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle in excess
of the limitations established in this section temporarily upon the streets,
upon showing that undue hardship may result. Provided, however, restrictions
and limitations may be put upon the special permit including a requirement for
the applicant to indemnify the village against damage to road foundations,
surfaces, or structures, together with adequate security as the board may
decide. (Ord. 1089, 7-7-1987)
   D.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of a violation
of any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine as provided
in the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 1089, 7-7-1987; amd. 2016 Code)
6-3-4: LEFT TURN PROHIBITED:
When appropriate signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful
for any person to make a left turn at the locations designated below. Any
person violating any provision of htis section shall be subject to fine under
the Illinois State Vehicle Code. Left turns are hereby prohibited in the
following areas:
   (A)   On S. McLean Street, it shall be prohibited to turn left into the
parking lot of Hudson Elementary School located at the Northwest corner of S.
McLean Street and Pearly Street. (Ord. 1337, 6-2-2020)
CHAPTER 4
GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Short Title
6-4-2: Scope
6-4-3: Definitions
6-4-4: Permit Requirements
6-4-5: Roadways On Which Operation Prohibited
6-4-6: Operation Requirements
6-4-7: Prohibited Operations
6-4-8: Penalties
6-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GOLF CART AND UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-2: SCOPE:
This chapter shall authorize and regulate the use of golf carts and utility
terrain vehicles. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
GOLF CART: A motorized vehicle with three (3) or four (4) wheels that is not
designed to be operated at a speed of more than twenty five (25) miles per
hour. Its purpose can include, but not be limited to, the playing of golf, and
it is generally designed to carry people.
UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE: A self-propelled, electrically powered, four (4)
wheeled motor vehicle; or a self-propelled, gasoline or diesel powered, four
(4) wheeled motor vehicle with an engine displacement under one thousand two
hundred (1,200) cubic centimeters which is capable of attaining, in one mile, a
speed of more than fifteen (15) miles per hour but not more than twenty five
(25) miles per hour, and which conforms to the federal regulations under 49 CFR
part 571.500.
The vehicle types that the village is intending to register are the "side by
side", "side x side", "UTV", "SSV" and similar body designs. This chapter is in
no way recognizing the "quad 4 x 4" style ATV vehicle (motorcycle) as a vehicle
that will be registered as a utility terrain vehicle.
VILLAGE STREETS: The "village streets" consist of any of the streets within the
boundaries of the village of Hudson. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016
Code)
6-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit And Insurance Required; Term Of Permit: No person shall operate
a qualified golf cart or utility terrain vehicle without first obtaining a
permit from the village chief of police as provided herein. Permits shall be
granted for a period of one year and renewed annually. Insurance coverage shall
be submitted and verified by the police department when obtaining or renewing a
permit.
   B.   Application For Permit: Every application for a permit shall be made on
a form supplied by the village and shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Name of the liability insurance carrier.
      3.   The serial number, make, model and description of the golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle.
      4.   Signed waiver of liability by the applicant releasing the village
and agreeing to indemnify and hold the village harmless from any and all future
claims resulting from the operation of his or her golf cart or utility terrain
vehicle on the village streets.
      5.   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit.
      6.   Such other information as the village may require.
   C.   Conditions Of Permit: No permit shall be granted unless the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be inspected by the village chief of police or his
duly authorized designee to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on the
village streets and is in compliance with this chapter and with the state of
Illinois motor vehicle code. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011)
      2.   A physically disabled applicant must submit a certificate signed by
a licensed physician certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on the village streets. (Ord.
2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
for the passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state of
Illinois. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011)
   D.   Permit Fee: The cost of the permit is fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord.
1295, 2-7-2017)
   E.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: The village may suspend or revoke a
permit granted hereunder upon finding that the holder thereof has violated any
provision of this chapter or there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely
operate a qualified golf cart or utility terrain vehicle on the designated
roadways.
   F.   Exemptions:
      1.   The permit fee shall be waived for all governmental or recognized
not for profit entities.
      2.   The village may issue a temporary special event permit for the use
of golf carts or utility terrain vehicles that may not be in compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and that are valid and issued only during that
event. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011)
6-4-5: ROADWAYS ON WHICH OPERATION PROHIBITED:
Utility terrain vehicles will not be allowed to be driven upon county owned and
maintained roadways. These roadways are currently Franklin and Broadway from
Franklin south to the southern boundary of the village. Should the county
highway department improve and maintain additional roadways within the village,
the new roadways would also be exempt for operation of a utility terrain
vehicle. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-6: OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or a utility terrain vehicle on the
village streets must comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Apply for and receive a permit issued by the village.
   B.   Have and maintain proof of current liability insurance.
   C.   Have the vehicle inspected by the chief of police or his duly
authorized designee and receive a certification or permit from the village.
Such permit shall be valid only for the calendar year for which it is issued.
   D.   Comply with the published "Rules Concerning Alternate Transportation
For The Village Of Hudson", as periodically updated.
   E.   Have a decal or registration approved by the village on the rear of the
vehicle.
   F.   Have a copy of the permit issued by the village, valid registration,
and valid insurance in the golf cart or utility terrain vehicle at all times.
   G.   Have a current, valid Illinois driver's license.
   H.   Be at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   I.   Golf carts must be equipped with a minimum of the following properly
operating and appropriate equipment:
      1.   Horn;
      2.   Brakes and brake lights;
      3.   Turn signals on the front and rear of the vehicle;
      4.   A steering wheel apparatus;
      5.   Tires;
      6.   Rearview mirror;
      7.   Red reflectorized warning devices on the rear of the vehicle;
      8.   Seat belts must be installed and worn by the driver and all
passengers;
      9.   Approved "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle 1 ;
      10.   Headlights that emit a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front which must be illuminated at all times when in
operation;
      11.   Taillamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear which must be illuminated at all times when in
operation; and
      12.   Any additional requirements which may be required by the Illinois
vehicle code.
   J.   Utility terrain vehicles must be equipped with the following properly
operating and appropriate equipment:
      1.   Horn;
      2.   Brakes and brake lights;
      3.   Turn signals on the front and rear of the vehicle;
      4.   A steering wheel apparatus;
      5.   Tires;
      6.   Rearview mirror;
      7.   Red reflectorized warning devices on the rear of the vehicle;
      8.   Seat belts must be installed and worn by the driver and all
passengers;
      9.   Approved "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle 2 ;
      10.   Headlights that emit a white light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the front which must be illuminated at all times when in
operation;
      11.   Taillamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear which must be illuminated at all times when in
operation; and
      12.   Any additional requirements which may be required by the Illinois
vehicle code.
   K.   Must obey all traffic laws of the state of Illinois and the village of
Hudson.
   L.   Must be operated only on the village streets, except where prohibited.
   M.   Must not be operated in excess of the posted speed limits and may not
exceed twenty five (25) miles per hour.
   N.   A person operating or in actual physical control of a golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle, as described herein, on the roadway while under the
influence is subject to the sections 11-500 through 11-502 et al., of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes 2 .
   O.   Shall not be operated on sidewalks or in the village parks other than
parking areas.
   P.   Shall be limited to the number of passengers permitted per the
manufacturer's requirements.
   Q.   Must comply with all other standards and requirements set forth by the
manufacturers. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 1295, 2-7-2017;
Ord. 1354, 9-7-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
2 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-500 - 5/11-502 et al.
6-4-7: PROHIBITED OPERATIONS:
   A.   Unlawful Acts: It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any
golf cart or utility terrain vehicle in the following ways: (Ord. 2011-1258,
10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   In violation of any requirement of this chapter.
      2.   In a careless or heedless manner so as to be grossly indifferent to
the person or property of other persons, or at the rate of speed greater than
will permit him, in the exercise of reasonable care, to bring the golf cart or
utility terrain vehicle to a stop with the assured clearance and distance
ahead.
      3.   In such a manner as to endanger the life, limb or property of any
person.
      4.   Within any nature preserve as defined in section 3.11 of the
Illinois natural areas preservation act. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011)
      5.   On private property without the written or verbal consent of the
owner or lessee thereof. Any person operating a utility terrain vehicle or golf
cart upon lands of another shall stop and identify himself upon the request of
the landowner or his duly authorized representative and, if requested to do so
by the landowner, shall promptly remove the utility terrain vehicle or golf
cart from the premises.
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, an owner, lessee, or occupant of
premises owes no duty to keep the premises safe for entry or use by others for
use by a utility terrain vehicle or golf cart, or to give warning of any
condition, use, structure or activity on such premises. This subsection A5 does
not apply where permission to drive or operate a utility terrain vehicle or
golf cart is given for a valuable consideration other than to this state, any
political subdivision or municipality of this state, or any landowner who is
paid with funds from the off highway vehicle trails fund. In the case of the
land leased to the state or a subdivision of the state, any consideration
received is not valuable consideration within the meaning of this subsection
A5. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
Nothing in this subsection A5 limits in any way liability which otherwise
exists for wilful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous
condition, use, structure, or activity.
      6.   On publicly owned lands unless such lands are designated for the use
by utility terrain vehicles or golf carts. For publicly owned lands to be
designated for the use by utility terrain vehicles or golf carts, a public
hearing shall be conducted by the governmental entity that has jurisdiction
over the proposed land prior to the designation. Nothing in this subsection A6
limits in any way liability which otherwise exists for the wilful or malicious
failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition, use, structure, or
activity. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011)
      7.   At a rate of speed too fast for conditions, and the fact that the
speed of the utility terrain vehicle or golf cart does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit allowed does not relieve the driver from the
duty to decrease speed as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle, or object within legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use
due care. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
      8.   On the frozen surface of public waters of this state within one
hundred feet (100') of a person, including a skater, not in or on a utility
terrain vehicle or golf cart, or within one hundred feet (100') of a person
engaged in fishing, except at the minimum speed required to maintain forward
movement of the utility terrain vehicle or golf cart. This subsection does not
apply on private property where verbal or written consent of the owner or
lessee has been granted to drive or operate a utility terrain vehicle or golf
cart upon private property or frozen waters of this state.
      9.   Within one hundred feet (100') of a dwelling between twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. at a speed greater than the
minimum required to maintain forward movement of the utility terrain vehicle or
golf cart. This subsection does not apply on private property where verbal or
written consent of the owner or lessee has been granted to drive or operate a
utility terrain vehicle or golf cart upon the private property or frozen waters
of this state.
   B.   Other Prohibitions:
      1.   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or ride
any utility terrain vehicle or golf cart with any firearm in his or her
possession unless he or she is in compliance with section 2.33 of the wildlife
code.
      2.   No person shall operate any utility terrain vehicle or golf cart
emitting pollutants in violation of standards established pursuant to the
environmental protection act.
      3.   No person shall deposit from a utility terrain vehicle or golf cart
on the snow, ice or ground surface, trash, glass, garbage, insoluble materials,
or other offensive matter. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011)
      4.   No utility terrain vehicles will be allowed on village streets
during the months of December, January and February and/or any other time that
the village is attempting to remove snow and ice from the village streets.
(Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. 2016 Code)
6-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Any second or subsequent offense shall result in revocation of the
permit for a period of not less than three (3) nor more than five (5) years. To
the extent that any violation of this chapter also constitutes a violation of a
criminal statute of the state of Illinois, the violator shall also be subject
to criminal prosecution. (Ord. 2011-1258, 10-4-2011; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Streets And Alleys Declared Public Highways
7-1-2: Sidewalk Construction Specifications
7-1-3: Obstructions And Encroachments
7-1-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-1-5: Safety Precautions
7-1-6: Maintenance And Repair
7-1-7: Removal Of Snow And Ice
7-1-8: Use Of Public Ways
7-1-9: Culverts And Ditches
7-1-10: Driveway Permit Requirements
7-1-11: Wheelchair Ramps
7-1-12: Mailboxes
7-1-1: STREETS AND ALLEYS DECLARED PUBLIC HIGHWAYS:
All streets and alleys heretofore dedicated as such by the original plat of the
village of Hudson, or by any addition thereto, the plat of which has been
accepted and approved by the village board of trustees and made a matter of
record, and all streets, avenues, and alleys opened, laid out, established or
extended in the manner provided by law and ordinance, and their respective
names as shown by such official plats on file in the office of the village
clerk, are hereby declared to be public highways, and all such ordinances,
orders and resolutions of the village board of trustees opening, laying out,
establishing, extending and naming any such streets, avenues or alleys are
hereby continued in force. (2016 Code)
7-1-2: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
All sidewalks hereafter constructed within the village on or along the public
streets and alleys shall be constructed only in accordance with the following:
   A.   Concrete Requirements: All concrete shall be 6-bag mix using air
entrained cement and crushed aggregate; minimum four thousand (4,000) psi
twenty eight (28) day strength. Delivery slips shall be available indicating
the mix being delivered to the job site. The village reserves the right to
conduct any testing it desires and reject any work not in conformance with
these standards.
   B.   Depth: All regular walks shall be four inches (4") thick, except at
driveways, where sidewalks shall be six inches (6") across approaches.
   C.   Width: Sidewalks shall be four feet (4') in width.
   D.   Dummy Joints: Dummy joints shall be spaced every four feet (4') and
shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") to one inch (1") deep.
   E.   Expansion Joints: Expansion joints of one-half inch (1/2") felt shall
be placed every fifty feet (50') at the intersection of crosswalks, adjacent to
concrete driveways or at any locations otherwise instructed by the village
engineer. (2016 Code)
7-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Obstructing Streets: No person shall place, throw or leave, or shall
cause to be placed, thrown or left, any obstruction in or upon any street or
alley, except as authorized by ordinance.
   B.   Obstructing Public Ways With Building Materials: No contractor, builder
or other person shall encumber any street, alley or sidewalk in the village
with building or other like material without written permission from the mayor;
nor, in case of such permission, shall he encumber or obstruct more than one-
third (1/3) of the width of such street, or one-half (1/2) of any such
sidewalk; nor shall such obstruction continue in any case longer than may be
necessary to the diligent completion of the work in hand.
   C.   Obstructing Sidewalks During Delivery Or Receipt Of Goods: No person
shall encumber or obstruct more than two feet (2') of the outer edge of any
sidewalk with any goods, merchandise, fuel or any article he may be receiving
or delivering, nor shall he permit the same to remain longer than may be
necessary. In no case shall such time exceed twelve (12) hours.
   D.   Removal Of Encroachments: The owner of any building, fence or any
structure already erected or built extending into or encroaching upon any
street, alley or sidewalk within the village shall remove the same within
thirty (30) days after being notified in writing so to do by the superintendent
of streets. (2016 Code)
7-1-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unlawful Access; Injury To Pavements: It shall be unlawful for any
person to walk, ride, drive, or in any manner propel any kind of vehicle or
piece of machinery over, along, or upon that portion of any street, sidewalk,
or other public way or place while the same is guarded by a warning sign or
barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft or newly laid pavement. (2016 Code)
   B.   Spilling Loads; Mud And Debris:
      1.   Any person hauling any material along or upon the streets, avenues
or alleys of the village shall so construct, keep and maintain the means of
conveyance so that at no time shall any of said material so hauled be dropped
or spilled onto said streets, avenues or alleys.
      2.   Persons operating motor vehicles entering or leaving public streets
from construction projects and other areas where there is dirt, mud or debris
shall enter or exit in a manner that at no time shall there be dirt, mud, or
debris on the tires of the vehicle that might fall onto public streets, avenues
or alleys. Contractors or landowners will be responsible for cleanup. (Ord.
1109, 6-5-1990)
      3.   Any person violating any provision of this subsection shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in subsection
1-4-1A of this code for each offense. There will be an increase in fines for
continued or repeat violations. (Ord. 1109, 6-5-1990; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Deposit Of Ashes, Dirt Or Rubbish: No person shall throw, leave or
place, or cause to be thrown, left or placed, or permit to remain when so
thrown, left or placed, any piles of ashes or dirt or any filth or rubbish in
or upon any street, alley or sidewalk. (2016 Code)
7-1-5: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   A.   Required:
      1.   Any person who shall have made any excavation or placed any
obstruction on any public thoroughfare in the village, for any purpose
whatsoever, shall place appropriate barriers and warning devices thereon to
properly protect and warn the public.
      2.   Any person, firm, or corporation doing any construction work in a
public way, or making an excavation in the same, shall provide traffic control
in accordance with the applicable specifications of the latest edition of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction" adopted by the state
of Illinois and the applicable guidelines contained in the latest edition of
the "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And
Highways". A copy of each is on file in the village clerk's office and
available for public inspection.
   B.   Disturbing Devices Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to disturb or
interfere with any barricades, lights, or other traffic control devices
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in
any public street, alley, sidewalk, easement, or other public way. (2016 Code)
 
7-1-6: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
All improved public ways shall be kept in good repair. Repair work, whether
done by the village or by the abutting owner, shall be done under the
supervision of the superintendent of streets. The owners of property abutting
sidewalks shall be responsible for the repair and maintenance of such
sidewalks. No person owning property abutting a sidewalk shall permit such
sidewalk to be in a state of disrepair which endangers the safety of persons
passing over the same. In the event a person is injured as a result of lack of
maintenance and repair of a sidewalk, the owner of property abutting such
sidewalk shall be liable for such injuries. (2016 Code)
7-1-7: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
   A.   Commercial Districts:
      1.   Definitions: The following terms, when used in this subsection,
shall have the meanings provided in this subsection A1:
   BUSINESS DAY: Any day not a Sunday or national or state holiday.
   BUSINESS HOURS: The hours between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. on any business day.
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS: Refers to those areas in the village of Hudson zoned
commercial districts.
   OCCUPANT: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association,
governmental entity, or other entity of any description, other than the owner,
having the right to possession of the premises.
   OWNER: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, governmental
entity, or other entity of any description holding legal title to the premises.
      2.   Removal Required:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, every owner
and occupant of any building or lot of land within the commercial districts
fronting or abutting on a paved sidewalk shall remove and clear away, or cause
to be removed and cleared away, snow and ice from so much of said sidewalk as
is in front of or abuts on said building or lot of land within four (4)
business hours after the cessation of any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain
or by the beginning of business hours of the next business day following such
fall, whichever period is shorter.
         b.   In the event snow and ice on a sidewalk has become so hard that
it cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the person
or entity charged with its removal shall, within the time mentioned in
subsection A2a of this section, cause enough sand or other abrasive to be put
on the sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably safe; and shall then, as soon
thereafter as weather permits, cause said sidewalk to be thoroughly cleaned.
      3.   Placement In Streets Prohibited: No snow shall be placed in any
public roadway.
      4.   Penalty: Owners and occupants of properties in the commercial
districts failing to comply with the requirements of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as provided in subsection
1-4-1A of this code.
   B.   Residential Districts:
      1.   Definition: When used in this subsection, the term "owner/resident"
shall mean any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other
entity of any description holding legal title to the premises.
      2.   Removal And Placement:
         a.   Placement of snow and ice in streets is prohibited.
         b.   No snow or ice shall be placed in any public roadways, except as
provided in subsection B2c of this section.
         c.   If removal of the snow and ice from an owner's/resident's drive
or sidewalk results in snow or ice being deposited in the roadway by the owner/
resident or a designee of the owner/resident, the snow and ice must be removed
from the roadway immediately following the clearing of the drive/sidewalk.
   C.   Penalty: Owners and residents in residential districts failing to
comply with the requirements of this section shall be fined as provided in
subsection
1-4-1A of this code. (2016 Code)
7-1-8: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Permit For Ditches, Tracks, Poles, Wires And Pipelines: No ditches,
drains, tracks, rails, poles, wires, pipelines or other equipment of any public
utility company, municipal corporation, or other public or private corporation,
association, or person shall be located, placed or constructed upon, under or
along any highway or street in the village without first obtaining the written
consent of the village superintendent of streets or other appropriate official
designated by the mayor and village board of trustees.
   B.   Abandonment Of Substructures: Whenever the use of a substructure or
utility line is abandoned, except the abandonment of service lines designed to
serve single properties, the person owning, using, controlling, or having an
interest therein shall, within thirty (30) days after such abandonment, file
with the village superintendent of streets a statement in writing giving in
detail the location of the substructure or underground utility line so
abandoned. If such abandoned substructure or underground utility line is in the
way, or subsequently becomes in the way, of an installation of the village or
of any other public body, which installation is pursuant to a governmental
function, the owner shall remove such abandoned substructure or pay the cost of
its removal during the course of excavation for construction of the facility or
underground utility line by the Village or any other public body.
   C.   Auctions: No person shall, by outcry on the public streets, alleys or
public grounds of the Village, or by auction, advertise or sell any wares or
merchandise without first having obtained permission so to do from the Village
President and Village Board of Trustees. (2016 Code)
7-1-9: CULVERTS AND DITCHES:
   A.   Culverts Required: All entrances to any private premises which require
a ditch along a public right-of-way be crossed, including those for which
driveway permits are required, shall have a corrugated metal pipe culvert of a
diameter and length as specified by the Superintendent of Streets or his
designee; said pipe culvert to be installed at a designated depth and grade in
accordance with any other directions or requirements of the Superintendent of
Streets or his designee.
   B.   Plan For Placement: The Superintendent of Streets, upon written
application, may approve, in writing, a plan for placement of culverts,
driveway entrance aprons, erosion control structures, and the like, in any
ditch on any Village property or right-of-way located within the Village when,
in the discretion of the Superintendent of Streets, such structure, control
facility, etc., is properly designed and the placement of such is in the best
interests of the Village and the adjoining property owners in order to control
erosion, to permit adequate access to private property, or for such other good
reason as may be shown in the application submitted to the Superintendent.
   C.   Damage To, Obstructing:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or obstruct or place,
throw, leave or cause to be placed or left any encroachment, obstruction,
encumbrance, fill, or object in or upon any culvert or ditch located on
property of the Village or on or adjacent to any street or alley right-of-way
within the Village, or to dump leaves, rock, gravel, trash, soil or other
materials into any other culvert or ditch located on any property of the
Village or in any street or alley right-of-way located within the Village.
      2.   Any person who shall place, leave or cause to be left any
encroachment, obstruction or encumbrance in or upon any culvert or ditch
located on property of the Village or on or adjacent to any street or alley
right-of-way within the Village, or any person who shall injure or obstruct any
culvert or ditch, as aforesaid, or any person who shall dump leaves, rock,
gravel, trash, soil or other materials into any culvert or ditch, as aforesaid,
shall, in all cases, be liable to the Village and to private persons for all
injury or damage arising therefrom. (2016 Code)
      3.   Displacement or movement of rock, gravel, soil, turf or other
materials caused by routine snow plowing by Village employees is exempt from
this section. (Ord. 1313, 6-5-2018)
7-1-10: DRIVEWAY PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: All property owners within the Village
desiring a new access to a public street, alley or other public way, or
desiring to modify an existing access to any public street, alley or other
public way, are hereby required to obtain a driveway permit. Driveway permits
shall be on forms prepared by the Village Clerk and shall be issued by the
Superintendent of Streets or his designee. An application form for a driveway
permit shall also be prepared by the Village Clerk and shall be made available
to members of the public as necessary to apply for a driveway permit.
   B.   Considerations For Granting Permit:
      1.   The Superintendent of Streets, in granting the driveway permit,
shall consider the necessity of the new or modified access to both the current
use and the anticipated future use of the property to be served by the new or
modified access, as well as considering the traffic patterns and uses of the
public way, in determining whether or not the new access or proposed
modification of the existing access is in the best interests of the public.
      2.   The Superintendent of Streets, in granting the driveway permit,
shall also consider: a) the type of construction materials to be used; and b)
safety precautions, stated by the applicant, to be utilized during the period
of construction in order to protect passersby, vehicular traffic in the
vicinity, and the public.
      3.   The Superintendent of Streets, in granting the driveway permit,
shall also determine whether or not the new access or proposed modification of
an existing access will be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to
other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the property to be
served by the new or modified access is located, and whether or not the
particular physical surroundings and other pertinent conditions of the property
to be served by the new or modified access indicate a particular hardship upon
the owner if the application for the new or modified access is not approved as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the new or modified access is not
approved. (2016 Code)
7-1-11: WHEELCHAIR RAMPS:
All newly constructed curbs and all existing curbs which are rebuilt or
reconstructed in any area of the Village shall be constructed so as to enable
persons using wheelchairs to travel freely and without assistance by providing
at each crosswalk a ramp with nonslip surface so that the sidewalk and street
blend to a common level. Such ramp shall not be less than forty eight inches
(48") wide and shall not have a slope greater than one inch (1") rise per
twelve inches (12") in length. Where, because of surrounding buildings or other
restrictions, it is impossible to conform the slope with this requirement, the
ramp shall contain a slope with as shallow a rise as possible under the
circumstances. In all ramps, there shall be a gradual rounding at the bottom of
the slope. (2016 Code)
7-1-12: MAILBOXES:
Mailboxes permitted or required to be placed adjacent to a street by the United
States Postal Service regulations shall comply with said regulations and the
following:
   A.   Mailboxes shall be placed no closer than three inches (3") from the
back of the curb and at least forty two inches (42") above the curb but no more
than forty eight inches (48") above the traveled portion of the street.
Mailboxes on Village streets without curb shall be three feet (3') from the
edge of the road.
   B.   No brick posts or supporting structures are allowed.
   C.   Any ornamental designs must have prior approval from the Superintendent
of Streets. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE A. CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES
IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
7-1A-1:   Application And Surety Required
7-1A-2:   Authority To Inspect
7-1A-3:   Fine
7-1A-1: APPLICATION AND SURETY REQUIRED:
   A.   No person, firm, entity, association, or corporation shall dig on,
construct on, alter, remove, add to, diminish, or demolish any part or portion
of any Village road or right-of-way or commence to dig, construct, alter,
remove, add to, diminish, or demolish any part or portion of any Village road
or right-of-way, without first having first obtained a right-of-way opening
permit. In the case of an emergency (i.e. water main break, gas main break,
etc.), the work can begin immediately but the permit application shall be
submitted within 24 hours of commencement of construction.
   In addition to the right-of-way opening application, no person, firm,
entity, association, or corporation shall dig on, construct on, alter, remove,
add to, diminish, or demolish any part or portion of any Village road or right-
of-way or commence to dig, construct, alter, remove, add to, diminish, or
demolish any part or portion of any Village road or right-of-way, without first
depositing financial security to the Village of Hudson. The permittee shall
provide financial security to assure the restoration and/or repair of the
rights-of-way or any other public property. The financial surety shall be a
cashier's check, unless the Village of Hudson grants an exception to accept a
payment and/or performance bond or an irrevocable letter of credit, based on
the scope of work and past performance of the Applicant. The amount of the
financial security shall be determined by the Village per permit based on the
anticipated scope of work in accordance with a schedule of fees established by
the Corporate Authorities of the Village of Hudson. The financial security
shall be deposited and retained by the Village in a dedicated account until the
Village deems the permitted project complete. The Village shall notify the
right-of-way opening Applicant if the Village intends to utilize the financial
security for restoration and/or repair of the rights-of-way or any other public
property. The right-of-way Permittee shall have 5 days after notification by
the Village to restore and/or repair those areas noted by the Village at his/
her own expense or to request a hearing at a public meeting before the Board of
Trustees. After the 5 days the Village may utilize the financial security for
restoration and/or repair of the rights-of-way or any other public property
unless the Permittee requests a hearing as aforesaid.
   B.   The application for right-of-way opening shall briefly describe the
proposed project, and shall contain such information, drawings, plans, and
specifications as may be reasonably required by the Director of Public Works to
assess such proposed project. The application shall be made by the owner or
lessee or agent of either, including the architect, engineer, or contractor
employed in connection with the proposed project, and shall contain the full
names and addresses of the Applicant and of the owner or lessee or agent of
either, and if the Applicant is a corporate body, of its responsible officers.
The applicant shall utilize an application form made available by the Village
of Hudson Director of Public Works.
   C.   All work shall be at the sole cost of Applicant, and the Village is not
responsible for any costs.
   D.   All Applicants shall remove all excess material and restore all rights-
of-way, turf and terrain and other property within the right-of-way within five
(5) business days after any portion of the right-of-way is disturbed, damaged
or destroyed to a condition substantially equivalent to that which existed
prior to the commencement of the project. The Village of Hudson Director of
Public Works shall have sole authority to determine if the restoration work is
satisfactory. Restoration work may include, but is not limited to, repairing
entrances and side streets, backfilling, regrading, reseeding, and resodding.
Restoration of roads and rights-of-way surfaces shall be made using materials
and methods approved by the Village of Hudson.
      1.   Streets. Restoration of streets shall be as follows:
         a.   In general, the Applicant shall construct a permanent patch
consisting of a minimum of eight inches of Portland cement concrete for
concrete streets and four inches of bituminous concrete for bituminous surfaced
streets on all excavation openings. The surface shall have a minimum 2%
transverse slope. The surface shall be of positive drainage and no standing
water shall exist. Any patch over 50 feet long shall be completed with a paving
machine. See attached standard for specific details.
         b.   If surface repairs constitute more than 50 percent of a 50-foot
segment of a street as measured from the beginning of any repair to the end of
any other repair, the Applicant, at its expense, shall resurface that section
of the street. The section of the street which must be resurfaced shall be
determined by the Village Engineer based on the disturbance subject to the
following limitations: At the minimum the portion to be resurfaced shall mean
the full width of the traffic lane or to the seam of the original overlay
and.at the maximum it shall mean the entire width of the road. Resurface shall
mean a minimum of 1.5" mill and 1.5" hot mix asphalt resurface. Resurfacing
shall be completed with a paving machine. The surface shall have a minimum 2%
transverse slope. The surface shall be of positive drainage and no standing
water shall exist.
         c.   If two pavement repairs are made in any 50-foot section of a
street or 3 or more pavement repairs are made in any 100-foot section of a
street, the Applicant, at its expense, shall resurface that section of the
street which must be resurfaced. The section of the street shall be determined
by the Village Engineer based on the disturbance subject to the following
limits: At the minimum the portion to be resurfaced shall mean the full width
of the traffic lane or to the seam of the original overlay and at the maximum
it shall mean the entire width of the road. Resurface shall mean a minimum of
1.5" mill and 1.5" hot mix asphalt resurface. Resurfacing shall be completed
with a paving machine. The surface shall have a minimum 2% transverse slope.
The surface shall be of positive drainage and no standing water shall exist.
      2.   Sidewalks. Restoration of sidewalks shall consist of a minimum of a
four-inch aggregate base course under a minimum of four inches of Portland
Cement Concrete. All sidewalks shall comply with current standards utilized in
public rights-of-way.
      3.   The Village shall have the option to require the Applicant to make a
payment to the Village, rather than performing the restoration. The amount of
such payment shall be the amount of the cost estimate obtained from a
contractor of the Village's choice, plus engineering costs equal to ten percent
of the cost estimate. (Ord. 1367, 3-7-2023)
7-1A-2: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
   A.   The Director of Public Works shall have authority to inspect or cause
to be inspected any work performed on or to any Village road or right-of-way or
any portion thereof at any time before, during, or after a project. In the
event that the Village incurs expense conducting inspections under this
Section, the cost actually incurred by the Village for inspection services
shall be deducted from the applicants financial surety prior to refunding same.
The Applicant may be charged thru the financial surety for any inspection
services.
   B.   If the Director of Public Works finds, after inspection, or at any time
before or upon final inspection, that the work performed does not meet the
construction standards applicable to Village roads or rights-of-way, that the
plans or specifications under which the application was submitted are not being
followed, any applicable safety standards are not being utilized, or that any
laws, rules, or regulations are being violated, the Director of Public Works
may order the work stopped, and may order non-conforming work removed and
replaced in accordance with applicable standards, plans, specifications, laws,
rules or regulations.
   C.   All work shall be performed in compliance with the applicable laws,
regulations, and ordinances of any governmental body, including, but not
limited to, Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices and Illinois Department
of Transportation requirements. (Ord. 1367, 3-7-2023)
7-1A-3: FINE:
Any person, firm, entity, association, or corporation who violates any
provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be assessed a fine of
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00). Each and every day that a violation occurs shall
be a separate offense. (Ord. 1367, 3-7-2023)
ARTICLE B. CURB CUTS
SECTION:
7-1B-1: Required And Prohibited Permits
7-1B-2: Curb Cuts Involving State Roadways
7-1B-1: REQUIRED AND PROHIBITED PERMITS:
   A.   No person, firm, or corporation shall hereafter break or cut away any
portion of any curb or gutter now or hereafter laid or established on any
street, alley, or public way without first securing a curb cut permit
authorizing such construction, and all such construction shall be done in a
manner so as to meet the standards specified in this article.
   B.   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or create a new
accessway from the surface portion of a street, alley, or public way to
adjoining property without first securing a curb cut permit authorizing the
establishment of such an accessway, and all such ways shall be constructed in a
manner so as to meet the standards specified in this article.
   C.   A single curb cut permit may authorize the building of the curb and the
creation of a new accessway.
   D.   Curb cuts for sump pump discharges are prohibited. (2016 Code)
7-1B-2: CURB CUTS INVOLVING STATE ROADWAYS:
Before a permit will be issued for any curb cut or accessway onto a state right
of way, a copy of an approved permit from the state of Illinois department of
transportation shall be submitted to the superintendent of streets. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE C. CLOSURE OF PUBLIC WAYS PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
7-1C-1: Application For Permit; Fee
7-1C-2: Bond And Indemnification
7-1C-3: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit; Conditions
7-1C-4: Preference In Applications
7-1C-5: Issuance Of Multiple Permits
7-1C-6: Reconsideration Of Denied Permit; Appeal
7-1C-7: Contents Of Permit
7-1C-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
7-1C-1: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
An application for a closure permit shall be filed, along with a twenty five
dollar ($25.00) fee, with the superintendent of streets not less than three (3)
working days before the date proposed for closing or obstructing a public way.
Such application shall be signed by the applicant or by an authorized
representative of the group seeking the permit on forms provided by the village
and shall contain the following:
   A.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to close
or obstruct the public way.
   B.   If the closure or obstruction is proposed to be conducted for or on
behalf of or by an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization.
   C.   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be the
chair or local contact person for the proposed activity.
   D.   The date when the activity is to be conducted.
   E.   Whether or not the proposed activity is for profit.
   F.   The approximate number of persons and vehicles, if any, attending the
activity.
   G.   The date and hours when the activity will start and terminate.
   H.   A statement as to whether the activity will occupy all or only a
portion of a public way.
   I.   The location of public ways for the activity.
   J.   The time which participants of the activity will begin to assemble.
   K.   Whether or not any barricades are requested.
   L.   Whether or not any police assistance is requested.
   M.   Whether or not amplified sound will be used.
   N.   A brief description of the activity.
   O.   If a street is closed, whether or not all persons abutting said street
have been notified of the activity.
   P.   Whether or not a fee will be charged for the activity.
   Q.   Whether or not alcoholic liquor will be available at the activity. If
so, a general statement detailing control and use of alcoholic liquor. (2016
Code)
7-1C-2: BOND AND INDEMNIFICATION:
The superintendent of streets shall require from the applicant an agreement to
compensate the village for loss or damage to public property and the deposit of
a surety or cash bond in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to
guarantee the cleanup of the site and the removal of any debris left as a
result of the holding of the activity. The applicant shall also indemnify and
hold the village harmless on account of any and all claims, suits, losses,
damages, costs, attorney fees and expenses which the village may in any manner
suffer, incur, be put to, pay, or lay out by reason of the issuance of a permit
pursuant to this article or by reason of activities conducted by the applicant
or persons attending the activities conducted by the applicant or by other
third parties injured as a result of activities conducted by the applicant or
persons attending the activity. (2016 Code)
7-1C-3: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
   A.   The superintendent of streets shall issue or deny the permit within two
(2) working days after receiving an application.
   B.   The superintendent of streets shall issue a permit, provided:
      1.   The application is on the form provided and contains the required
information.
      2.   The application for a permit does not contain any false, misleading,
or fraudulent statement of material fact.
      3.   The applicant has met the requirements of this article.
      4.   The proposed activity is not contrary to law.
      5.   The proposed activity will not unreasonably interfere with the
preservation of the public peace, health, safety, or welfare.
      6.   The applicant agrees to abide by and comply with all conditions and
regulations attendant upon issuance of the permit.
      7.   All necessary state highway closure requirements have been met.
   C.   The superintendent of streets may impose reasonable terms and
regulations concerning the time and place of the activity, the maximum number
of persons or units participating therein, the regulation of traffic, the
number and type of signs and barricades to be provided by the applicant, and
such other requirements as the superintendent of streets may find reasonable
and necessary for the protection of persons and property. (2016 Code)
7-1C-4: PREFERENCE IN APPLICATIONS:
If the superintendent of streets shall receive more than one application for
activities necessitating a closure permit, which activities are proposed for
the same time and place, the application filed first in time shall take
precedence. An application shall be considered to be "at the same time" if the
proposed activity is scheduled to commence within two (2) hours before or after
the holding of another activity requiring a closure permit. An application
shall be considered to be "at the same place" if the proposed activity is
within six (6) blocks or any equivalent distance from another activity
requiring a closure permit. (2016 Code)
7-1C-5: ISSUANCE OF MULTIPLE PERMITS:
The superintendent of streets may issue permits for more than a single activity
requiring a closure permit on any one date in accordance with the requirements
of this article; provided, however, that the superintendent may not issue
multiple permits beyond the point at which the issuance of such additional
permits would require the continuing diversion of so great a number of police
officers or other municipal personnel so as to prevent normal police protection
or delivery of other services to the village. (2016 Code)
7-1C-6: RECONSIDERATION OF DENIED PERMIT; APPEAL:
If a permit has been denied by the superintendent of streets, the applicant may
request reconsideration of such application and submit to the superintendent of
streets for his review any additional evidence relevant to said application.
The superintendent of streets shall make a final determination within twelve
(12) hours following receipt of any request for reconsideration. Decisions of
the superintendent of streets on applications for reconsideration may be
appealed to the village president. (2016 Code)
7-1C-7: CONTENTS OF PERMIT:
A closure permit shall contain the following:
   A.   The name of the person or organization to whom issued.
   B.   The address and telephone number of the person or organization named on
the permit.
   C.   The type of activity for which the permit has been issued.
   D.   The date, hour, and location for the proposed activity.
   E.   The expiration date of the event.
   F.   Any conditions imposed on the holding of the proposed activity. (2016
Code)
7-1C-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
A closure permit may be summarily suspended or revoked by the superintendent of
streets on the following grounds:
   A.   If the superintendent has reasonable cause to believe that any of the
grounds exist for which the original application for a permit would have been
denied.
   B.   If the superintendent has reasonable cause to believe that the health,
safety, and welfare of persons or property would be endangered because of real
or threatened disaster, public calamity, riot, or other emergency.
   C.   If the superintendent has reason to believe that the conditions imposed
upon issuance of the permit have not or are not being met. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Scope
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Obstructing Traffic Or View
7-2-4: Responsibility Of Adjacent Property Owners
7-2-5: Destruction Or Trimming Of Trees And Shrubs
7-2-6: Accidental Damage Or Destruction
7-2-7: Planting Trees And Shrubs
7-2-8: Root Protection
7-2-9: Penalties
7-2-1: SCOPE:
This chapter shall be applicable to trees and shrubs planted in or located on
village property and to trees and shrubs located on private property which grow
onto or above village property. (2016 Code)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
DRIP LINE: A point directly below the outermost point of a branch away from the
trunk or center of a tree or shrub.
PARKWAY: That area between the road pavement and the property line demarcating
the extent of road right of way including any public sidewalk.
PERSON: Any natural born person, corporation, partnership or voluntary
association, or other entity recognized under Illinois law.
SHRUB: A woody plant which grows less than twenty feet (20') tall without
support.
TREE: Any plant which grows more than twenty feet (20') tall without support.
TREE OR SHRUB LOCATED IN A MUNICIPAL PARKWAY: A tree or shrub which is actually
rooted, in whole or in part, in the parkway, or a tree or shrub that occupies
any portion of the air space above the parkway, whether or not such tree is
actually rooted in the parkway.
TRIM: The removal of any branch with a diameter of greater than one inch (1"),
or the removal of more than one-third (1/3) of the foliage of a tree or shrub
within a single growing season.
VILLAGE PROPERTY: Any real property owned by the village of Hudson including,
but not limited to, all road rights of way, parks and facilities and other
village property. (2016 Code)
7-2-3: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC OR VIEW:
   A.   Obstructions Prohibited:
      1.   Traffic: Any tree or shrub located in a municipal parkway shall have
its trunk, boughs or branches thereof cut and trimmed so as not to impede the
passage of persons or vehicles along any street or sidewalk. Any branch or
portion of a tree or shrub shall be considered an impediment if it is less than
eight feet (8') above a sidewalk or less than fifteen feet (15') above a
street. It shall be unlawful for any person or property owner to permit a tree
or shrub to impede the passage of persons or vehicles along a street or
sidewalk.
      2.   View: All trees or shrubs located in a municipal parkway shall have
the trunks, boughs or branches thereof cut and trimmed so as not to obstruct
the view of any person or driver of a vehicle traveling along a street or
sidewalk of any traffic sign, traffic signal, street identification sign, or
other vehicles or pedestrians which may be on or entering the roadway. It shall
be unlawful for any person or property owner to permit a tree or shrub to
obstruct the view as provided by this subsection.
   B.   Liability Of Owner: A property owner is liable for any tree or shrub in
violation of this section which is rooted on private property. A property owner
is not liable for any tree or shrub which is rooted in a municipal parkway.
   C.   Violations: A violation of this section is an absolute liability
offense with regard to property owners, and the village need not prove
knowledge of the violation on the part of property owner. Every day upon which
a violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation. (2016 Code)
7-2-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS:
   A.   Nonemergency Trimming: Where the owner of premises adjacent to streets,
alleys, or sidewalks permits the limbs, boughs, or foliage of trees or shrubs
planted on the premises to grow in such a manner as to impede the travel of
vehicles or persons on streets or sidewalks or to obstruct, in whole or in
part, the view of any traffic sign, traffic control device, street
identification sign, or other vehicles or persons who may be on or enter the
roadway, it shall be the duty of the superintendent of streets to notify such
owner, in writing, to trim such trees or shrubs within twenty one (21) days. If
the person so notified shall neglect or refuse to comply with such notice, the
superintendent of streets may cause such foliage to be trimmed at the expense
of the owner. The village may charge the owner with the costs so incurred, and
such costs shall be a lien on the premises. The lien may be enforced as
provided by law.
   B.   Emergency Trimming: Where the owner of premises adjacent to streets,
alleys, or sidewalks permits the limbs, boughs, or foliage of trees or shrubs
planted on the premises to grow in such a manner as to impede the travel of
vehicles or persons on streets or sidewalks or to obstruct, in whole or in
part, the view of any traffic sign, traffic control device, street
identification sign, or other vehicles or persons who may be on or enter the
roadway, and the superintendent of streets determines that the tree or shrub
creates an immediate danger to the health and safety of persons on the street
or sidewalk, the superintendent of streets shall cause the tree or shrub to be
trimmed or removed so as to remove the danger. The village may charge the owner
with the costs so incurred, and such costs shall be a lien on the premises. The
lien may be enforced as provided by law. (2016 Code)
7-2-5: DESTRUCTION OR TRIMMING OF TREES AND SHRUBS:
Destruction of trees or shrubs or trimming of trees or shrubs on any village
property, including parkways, is not permitted except upon approval by the
superintendent of streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to trim, remove
or destroy any tree or shrub on village property without first having obtained
the permission of the superintendent of streets. In addition to any fine which
may be assessed for a violation of this chapter, a person found to have
violated this section shall also pay to the village the value of the tree or
shrub which was trimmed, destroyed or removed as provided by the most recent
version of "A Guide To The Professional Evaluation Of Landscape Trees, Specimen
Shrubs And Evergreens" as published by the International Society Of
Arboriculture, but in no event less than the actual cost of replacement of a
tree or shrub of similar type. This shall not apply to utility companies
performing line clearance trimming, or to trees and shrubs whose trunk is
located entirely on private property. (2016 Code)
7-2-6: ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION:
Any person who accidentally causes damage to or destruction of any tree or
shrub on village property shall pay the village the value of the tree or shrub
which was damaged, destroyed or removed as provided by the most recent version
of "A Guide To The Professional Evaluation Of Landscape Trees, Specimen Shrubs
And Evergreens" as published by the International Society Of Arboriculture, but
in no event less than the actual cost of replacement of a tree or shrub of
similar type. This shall not apply to utility companies performing line
clearance trimming or to trees and shrubs whose trunks are located entirely on
private property. (2016 Code)
7-2-7: PLANTING TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Plantings Become Village Property: Any tree or shrub planted on village
property, including any parkway, becomes the property of the village upon
planting, and any other claims of ownership cease upon being planted on village
property.
   B.   Approval Required: All trees and shrubs planted on village property
shall be approved by the superintendent of streets.
   C.   Permit Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to plant a
tree or shrub on village property without first obtaining the permission of the
superintendent of streets. The superintendent of streets shall have the power
to order the removal of any tree or shrub planted in violation of this chapter
upon the giving of written notice to the person who planted or caused to be
planted such tree or shrub. Upon the failure of such person to remove such tree
or shrub within a reasonable time after such notice, the superintendent of
streets may have such tree or shrub removed, and such person may be charged
with the expense of the removal of the tree or shrub. Such expense may be
collected by bringing suit in the name of the village against such person. In
determining whether a permit shall be issued, the superintendent of streets
shall consider the following factors:
      1.   The likelihood of interference with utility lines.
      2.   Whether the tree or shrub is likely to grow such that it touches a
structure or interferes with persons or vehicles on the streets or sidewalks.
      3.   Whether there is sufficient room for the type and size of tree or
shrub at that location.
      4.   Whether the tree or shrub is likely to drop fruit in a location
where such fruit is likely to cause a mess.
      5.   Whether the tree or shrub is likely to drop branches which might
injure persons or impede persons or vehicles.
      6.   Whether the tree or shrub is likely to interfere with the ability of
persons to see traffic signals or other traffic along streets.
      7.   The likely health of the tree or shrub in the area to be planted.
      8.   The amount of care which a particular tree or shrub may require
during its life.
      9.   The overall aesthetics of the location of the tree or shrub.
      10.   Whether the tree or shrub is of a variety already located in the
area. Planting of a single species or type in an area should be avoided.
      11.   Whether the tree has thorns which are likely to injure persons.
      12.   The likely longevity of the tree or shrub. (2016 Code)
7-2-8: ROOT PROTECTION:
In order to protect the roots and health of trees and shrubs, the following
activities are prohibited:
   A.   Except as otherwise specifically provided in any franchise agreement,
it shall be unlawful for any person to dig a trench or other hole deeper than
one inch (1") on village property within an area closer than one foot (1') of
the outer drip line of any tree without the permission of the superintendent of
streets. The application for a permit shall depict the exact location and
description of the excavation or digging and the location and description of
any trees whose drip lines extend into the excavation or digging area. In
determining whether permission to dig or trench shall be granted, the
superintendent of streets shall determine if alternatives to digging or
trenching, such as boring or relocating, are available, the hardship to the
person seeking to dig or trench, and the likely damage to any tree or shrub.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to pave or place a drive or expand
a drive on village property in the area between the trunk and the drip line of
any tree or shrub without the permission of the superintendent of streets. In
determining whether permission to pave shall be granted, the superintendent of
streets shall determine if alternative locations are available, the need for
the paving, the hardship to the person seeking to pave, and the likely damage
to any tree or shrub.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place rocks or debris between
the trunk and the drip line of any tree or shrub planted on village property.
(2016 Code)
7-2-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any of the terms or requirements of this chapter shall be fined as provided in
subsection
1-4-1A of this code for each offense. Each day that such a violation or failure
occurs or continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense and
shall be punishable as such.
   B.   In addition to any fine which may be imposed for a violation of this
chapter, a person found to have violated this chapter shall also pay to the
village the value of the tree or shrub which was trimmed, destroyed or removed,
but in no event less than the actual cost of replacement of a tree or shrub of
similar type.
   C.   Regardless of other remedies which may be available, the village may
bring an action against any person in a court of competent jurisdiction to
obtain compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (2016 Code; amd. Ord.
1363, 12-6-2022)
ARTICLE A. PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY VEGETATION MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Definitions
7-2A-2: Compliance With State Regulations
7-2A-3: Authority Of Companies
7-2A-4: Electric Line Clearance Standards
7-2A-5: Emergency Trimming
7-2A-6: Root Protection
7-2A-7: Penalties
7-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
OVERHEAD TRANSMISSION LINES: The wires suspended aboveground on poles placed in
the parkway or placed immediately adjacent to the parkway on private or public
easements.
PARKWAY: That area between the road pavement and the property line demarcating
the extent of road right of way.
PERSON: Any natural born person, corporation, partnership or voluntary
association, or other entity recognized under Illinois law.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any company authorized by a franchise agreement with the
village to occupy public ways.
SAG AND SWAY: That distance determined by the superintendent of streets that
overhead public utility transmission lines will move vertically or horizontally
at midspan due to normal and customary weather conditions.
TREE LOCATED IN A MUNICIPAL PARKWAY: A tree which is actually rooted, in whole
or in part, in the parkway or a tree that occupies any portion of the air space
above the parkway, whether or not such tree is actually rooted in the parkway.
(2016 Code)
7-2A-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS:
Public utility companies and their contractors performing nonemergency
vegetation management shall comply with all state laws and regulations,
including nonemergency vegetation management activities set forth at 220
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-505.1. (2016 Code)
7-2A-3: AUTHORITY OF COMPANIES:
No prior approval by the superintendent of streets shall be required of any
public utility company or public utility company contractor performing
vegetation management on village property when such trimming is done in
accordance with this article and state law. (2016 Code)
7-2A-4: ELECTRIC LINE CLEARANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Trees To Be Trimmed: The following species of trees located in the
parkway may be trimmed according to the table of maximum line clearances and
the accompanying notes set forth in subsection B of this section. Trees not
listed in this subsection may be trimmed in accordance with subsection B of
this section, except the maximum line clearances may be up to two (2) times the
distance provided in subsection B of this section, but not to exceed ten feet
(10') in distance unless prior approval is obtained from the superintendent of
streets.
American hop hornbeam
American sweetgum
Ash, blue
Ash, white
Bald cypress
Black walnut
Blue beech
Buckeye
Catalpa
Elm, American
Ginkgo, male
Hickory
Ironwood
Kentucky coffee tree
Linden, littleleaf
Linden, silver
Maple, black
Maple, Norway
Maple, red
Maple, sugar
Oak species (except pin oak)
Tulip tree
   B.   Trimming Standards: The following table gives clearances adequate to
protect the wires under normal operating conditions and meets ANSI A300
standards. Special clearances may be needed sometimes because of field
conditions. The superintendent of streets is authorized to grant waivers from
the following table in light of such field conditions as set forth in
subsection C of this section. Electric wires will sag due to hot weather or
swing sideways in strong winds. The greatest wire sag and sway occurs at
midspan. The following line clearance will be measured from the maximum
distances the power line will sag and sway due to normal and customary weather
conditions.
   TABLE OF MAXIMUM LINE CLEARANCES (IN FEET)
   Provided, however, no living branch with a diameter of more than 4 inches
shall be cut without first obtaining a permit from the superintendent of
streets or his designee
 
Clearance  120 to 600 750 to 5,000 7,200 to  Aerial cable            69,000 V5
From Trees V5         V5           12,500 V5 2,400 to     34,500 V5  and above
                                             12,500 V5
Side       2          4            6         4            10         See note 4
Through    1          2            3         21           See note 2 See note 4
Over       2          4            8         6            See note 3 See note 4
conductors
Under      4          6            7         7            8          See note 4
conductors
 
Notes:
   1.    Remove limbs over 2 inches in diameter which may sway into or
otherwise contact line for a minimum clearance of 2 feet.
   2.    Not permitted through trees.
   3.    All overhead should be kept to a minimum.
   4.    Remove all trees that could grow or fall into line before they become
a hazard.
   5.    The letter "V" refers to volts.
   C.   Waiver Of Standards: Trees located in the parkway may need to be
trimmed to clearances for aesthetic or safety reasons. In such cases, the
superintendent of streets is authorized to issue a permit permitting deviation
from such clearance standards in a manner set forth in such permit. No fee
shall be charged for such permit. No tree trimming shall be done by any person
as set forth in this subsection except pursuant to the authorization of the
superintendent of streets. (2016 Code)
 
7-2A-5: EMERGENCY TRIMMING:
Nothing in this article shall be interpreted as preventing any person from
trimming to remove trees or portions of trees for the purpose of restoring
electric power which has been interrupted by reason of such trees or portions
thereof having come in contact with electric power lines. (2016 Code)
7-2A-6: ROOT PROTECTION:
Except as otherwise provided in any franchise agreement, it shall be unlawful
for any person to dig a hole or trench within an area closer than one foot (1')
of the drip line of any tree which is over twenty feet (20') tall for the
placement or replacement of utility lines without the permission of the
superintendent of streets. Utility lines include electrical, gas, water, cable
TV, sewer, telephone, and any other underground service line. In determining
whether a permit should be granted, the superintendent of streets should
determine whether alternative technologies such as boring are available or
whether there are alternative locations available for the placement or repair
of lines which do not require trenching or digging within the drip line of a
tree. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as prohibiting any person
from digging in an emergency situation to repair a broken water, sewer, gas or
electrical line. (2016 Code)
7-2A-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, firm, or corporation violating or failing to comply with
any of the terms or requirements of this article shall be fined as provided in
subsection
1-4-1A of this code for each offense. Each day that such a violation or failure
occurs or continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense and
shall be punishable as such.
   B.   In addition to any fine which may be assessed for a violation of this
article, a person found to have violated this article shall also pay to the
village the value of the tree or shrub which was trimmed, destroyed or removed,
but in no event less than the actual cost of replacement of a tree or shrub of
similar type.
   C.   Regardless of other remedies which may be available, the village may
bring an action against any person in a court of competent jurisdiction to
obtain compliance with the provisions of this article. (2016 Code; amd. Ord.
1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 3
VILLAGE PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Prohibited Hours
7-3-2: Vehicle Use
7-3-3: Animals Prohibited In Fenced Areas
7-3-4: Camping And Fires
7-3-5: Penalties
7-3-1: PROHIBITED HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to assemble or be
present upon the grounds of any public park of the Village between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day; said time to
be governed by the applicable time in question, whether it be Central Standard
Time or daylight saving time. (2016 Code)
7-3-2: VEHICLE USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or group of people to operate any all-
terrain vehicle, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor driven cycle, or snowmobile
upon the grounds of any public park of the Village except in designated areas
or by approval by the Village. (2016 Code)
7-3-3: ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN FENCED AREAS 1 :
No animals shall be allowed inside fenced areas of the Village parks. (2016
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  5-3-3B of this Code.
7-3-4: CAMPING AND FIRES:
There shall be no camping or fires within the Village parks or within the
roadside rights-of-way. (2016 Code)
7-3-5: PENALTIES:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second offense, and two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for each subsequent offense. Each day that any such violation
continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 4
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Water Department
7-4-3: Water Taps
7-4-4: Establishing Water Service
7-4-5: Water Meters
7-4-6: Service Pipes And Equipment
7-4-7: Extension Of Water Mains
7-4-8: Water Rates And Charges
7-4-9: Bills For Service; Delinquencies
7-4-10: Discontinuance Of Service; Reconnections
7-4-11: Unauthorized Use Of Water; Costs And Consequences
7-4-12: Emergency Situations
7-4-13: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-4-14: Entry Powers
7-4-15: Records Kept
7-4-16: Powers Of Village Officers Limited
7-4-17: Liability For Service; Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the following words or terms are used, they shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
OWNER: The person(s) whose name(s) appears on the property title to the
premises served or about to be served by the water system of the village of
Hudson.
WATER OPERATOR/WATER SUPERINTENDENT: Village employee(s).
WATER USER AND CONSUMER: The person or persons contracting for water service
from the village of Hudson to the premises owned or rented by the water user.
(2016 Code)
7-4-2: WATER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Department Established: There is hereby established an executive
department of the village to be known as the "water department", and the
village president is hereby authorized to appoint, subject to confirmation by
the board of trustees, a trustee to provide oversight to the water department.
   B.   Composition: The water department shall consist of the water
superintendent, water operator, water billing clerk and all other necessary
employees.
   C.   Water Operator: The water operator shall have general management and
control of the waterworks system, subject, however, to the supervision of the
water superintendent and the board of trustees. (2016 Code)
7-4-3: WATER TAPS:
   A.   Permit Required: No connection with a village water main nor tap of a
village water main shall be made without appropriate written permission and a
permit being issued, as may be required by the village board, including the
payment of all appropriate fees.
   B.   Location: Location of taps, other connections to village water mains,
curb stops, corporation cocks, and service cocks, and all related boxes and
other equipment shall be located as designated by the village water
superintendent or other village official or other person designated by the
village board.
   C.   Specifications: All persons making connections with village water mains
shall use materials and fixtures as designated by the village, and in the sizes
or other specifications as required by the village water superintendent or
other person or official as designated by the village board.
   D.   Supervision: All connections and taps shall be made under the
supervision of the water superintendent/water operator or other person
designated by the village board.
   E.   Costs To Owner: All water pipes and connections to the village water
mains shall be laid at the expense of the consumer who shall bear the expense
of all materials and labor for making the connection or tap at the water main
and running the service to the meter and from the meter to the inside building
water service piping if the meter is located outside of the foundation of the
building. The ownership of a service pipe by the village ceases at the curb
box, shutoff, or meter pit. Private property owners are responsible for service
lines from the curb box, shutoff, or meter pit to their premises. (2016 Code)
7-4-4: ESTABLISHING WATER SERVICE:
   A.   No water shall be turned on for use on or in any premises until
approved by the water superintendent.
   B.   On new constructions, the meter will be read at the time of final
inspection of the premises. If the water meter or remote reader is not working
at the time of final inspection, the permit holder is responsible for its
repair before a final occupancy will be issued. No occupancy will be given
unless the curb box is at final grade and operable. If construction is not
completed or the property is not sold within eight (8) months from the time of
issuing the construction permit, a monthly bill will be instituted. Water used
for jetting of footings, watering seed or sod, or the filling of septic tanks
must be metered. The permit holder will be responsible for the working
condition and availability of the curb box.
   C.   It is the responsibility of the new customer that all previous bills on
the property be paid before service is resumed. Service will be resumed without
a turn on fee.
   D.   Persons desiring to obtain water from the village water system to any
premises served by the village water system shall apply by making a written
request to the water superintendent. The application must be made before the
excavation is ready, and the tapper must be given at least twenty four (24)
hours' notice of the time when he will be needed. The application shall state
the full name of the owner of the property; the size of the tap required or
allowed, and the size and kind of pipe to be used; the name and side of the
street, the number (if any) of the house or building, the number of the lot and
block, and, if a corner, shall state which street main is to be tapped. The
application shall state the purposes for which the water is to be used, the
time when the tap is to be made, the name of the plumber selected by the
applicant to do the work, and such additional information as may be required by
the water superintendent.
   E.   If no valid objection exists, the village shall thereupon issue to such
applicant, or to any licensed plumber selected by him to do the work, a permit
authorizing such plumber to perform the work. (2016 Code)
7-4-5: WATER METERS:
   A.   Provided By Village: The village will purchase a supply of water meters
and will furnish such meter to the consumer.
   B.   Electronic Remote Reading: Whenever the village purchases water meters
on or after the effective date hereof, the village shall also purchase devices
to be used in connection with said new meters, such devices being generally
known as "electronic transponders", which devices shall be used in connection
with portable reading devices to "read" meter usage without requiring the meter
reader to physically view a reading device on the outside of a structure, or to
view the meter itself. The village shall also purchase, in connection with such
electronic transponders, the necessary computer software, hardware and any
other devices, instruction manuals, and the like which shall be necessary in
order to institute a program whereby the village, through its water department,
shall begin to change over all water meters, as the same are replaced in
construction, in order to facilitate the electronic remote reading of water
meters with a view to reducing the expense to the village of reading water
meters and billing water meter usage to water meter customers in the village.
   C.   Location; Seals:
      1.   All water meters shall be placed inside the cellar or basement of a
building unless special permission for a different location is given by the
water superintendent.
      2.   Meter reading devices, including sight reading devices and
electronic transponders, shall be located on the outside wall of a building in
a place permitting easy access and reading by the village officials; such
location to be designated or approved by the village water superintendent.
      3.   Meters, sight readers, electronic transponders, and other meter
reading devices and associated equipment must be placed in a location free from
obstruction and easily accessible for purposes of reading, inspection, repair
or removal. In cases of obstruction, the village may shut off the water to the
premises until such obstruction shall be removed.
      4.   All meters, sight reading devices, electronic transponders, and
other associated meter and meter reading equipment shall be sealed as
appropriate. No person other than the water superintendent or other village
officer or individual designated by the village board shall break or cause to
be broken any such seal without permission from the water superintendent.
   D.   Damage To Meters: The village shall not be liable for damage to or
repairs or renewals of meters unless occasioned thereby or by its employees,
but the consumer must protect the meter from freezing, hot water or breakage,
and it shall be the duty of the consumer to promptly notify the village of all
known defects in his meter or its supposed failure to properly register the
quantity of water flowing through it and allow reasonable time for tests or
inspection.
   E.   Replacement Meters: Water meter replacements requested by customer
shall require a fee for materials and labor. This fee will be collected before
the meter is replaced. If the meter is found to be faulty, the fee will be
reimbursed. However, if the meter is found to be working correctly, the fee
will not be reimbursed. (2016 Code)
7-4-6: SERVICE PIPES AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Location Of Pipes: Along streets where mains are laid, service pipes
will not be allowed to run across lots, that is, from one lot to another, but
must be taken from its main in front of the premises or front point in the
street adjacent to the same.
   B.   Pipe Specifications: Water service pipes from the village water main to
the building or other facility for which the water service connection is made
shall be constructed as specified by the Illinois Plumbing Code.
   C.   Repair Of Pipes: Any repair of water service pipes shall be constructed
using piping meeting the specifications of paragraph B of this Section.
Necessary repairs to a water service line shall be the responsibility of the
property owner and not the responsibility of the Village if the repair is
needed after the outlet of the water meter yoke in the event of a meter pit or
after the outlet of the curb stop in all other instances. No repair shall be
made by a private property owner to an iron or enameled iron service pipe.
Instead, in the event of a leak or other damage to iron or enameled iron
service pipe, the private property owner shall be responsible for replacing the
service line with piping meeting the specifications of paragraph B of this
section.
   D.   Protection Of Pipes And Equipment: Persons taking water must keep their
service pipes and fixtures connected thereto in good repair and protected from
frost at their own expense, and must prevent all the necessary waste, or the
water service will be turned off with notice to said persons. For the purposes
of this subsection, "service pipes" shall mean that portion of the service
pipes used by the water user which lies outside village street rights of way.
(2016 Code; Ord. 1356, 11-2-2021)
7-4-7: EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS:
The person desiring water service shall install the extension at their own
personal expense upon written consent by the village and upon compliance with
the following:
   A.   The village must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions. All water mains constructed in the village from and after the
effective date hereof shall have a minimum diameter of six inches (6"). This
minimum diameter shall apply to all installations of new water mains and all
replacements of existing water mains.
   B.   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications must
be reviewed and approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   C.   Ownership, rights of way, and title must be conveyed to the village for
all extensions installed. The village will maintain the mains beginning one
year from the date of issuing the operating permit.
   D.   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the village, the
system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed extension. If
a water study is deemed necessary, then all expenses will be paid by the
petitioner. (2016 Code)
7-4-8: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Equipment Costs: Meters, parts thereof, or other equipment relating to
water service provided by the village water system shall be paid in full at the
time of purchase.
   B.   Water Rates:
      1.   Rates Established: The village uses five (5) water rates:
residential/business inside corporate limits, residential/business outside
corporate limits, senior citizen/churches inside corporate limits, senior
citizen/churches outside corporate limits, and governmental entities. The
following shall be the rates for water supplied by the village, payable monthly
by the sixteenth day of each succeeding month:
         a.   Residential/business inside corporate limits:
 
Amount                  Rate For Water Supplied
2,000 gallons per month $23.19/2,000 gallons (minimum bill)
Next 8,000 gallons      $1.1593/100 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons     $1.2752/100 gallons
Above 10,000 gallons    $1.4028/100 gallons
 
         b.   Residential/business outside corporate limits: Water supplied to
property outside the corporate limits of the village shall be the amount of the
residential/business inside corporate limit rate plus twenty five percent
(25%), as follows:
 
Amount                  Rate For Water Supplied
2,000 gallons per month $28.99/2,000 gallons (minimum bill)
Next 8,000 gallons      $1.4491/100 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons     $1.5940/100 gallons
Above 10,000 gallons    $1.7535/100 gallons
 
         c.   Senior citizens/churches inside corporate limits: No minimum bill
applies.
 
Amount               Rate For Water Supplied
First 2,000 gallons  $1.1593/100 gallons
Next 8,000 gallons   $1.1593/100 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons  $1.2752/100 gallons
Above 10,000 gallons $1.4028/100 gallons
 
         d.   Senior citizens/churches outside corporate limits: No minimum
bill applies.
 
Amount               Rate For Water Supplied
First 2,000 gallons  $1.4491/100 gallons
Next 8,000 gallons   $1.4491/100 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons  $1.5940/100 gallons
Above 10,000 gallons $1.7535/100 gallons
 
         e.   Governmental entities: Includes Hudson Public Library, Hudson
police department, Hudson Town Hall, Hudson fire protection district, Hudson
Township shed. No minimum bill applies.
      Rate for water supplied: $0.4358/100 gallons.
      2.   Changes In Rates: The village reserves the right to make such
reasonable changes in rates and in conditions herein established and to
establish further administrative rules and regulations from time to time as may
be found expeditious or necessary. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 1380, 4-2-2024)
7-4-9: BILLS FOR SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills; Due Date; Late Payment Penalty; Insufficient Funds
Fee: Bills for water service shall be issued on the first of each month, and
payment shall be due on the sixteenth of each month. Bills will be delinquent
after the sixteenth of each month. Failure to pay the bill by the sixteenth of
each month will result in an additional ten percent (10%) of the unpaid balance
each month the bill is delinquent. Nonsufficient fund charges of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per occurrence will be accessed.
   B.   Shut Off Of Water: Two (2) consecutive months of nonpayment will result
in a shutoff notice. Any bills one hundred twenty (120) days or more past due
will also result in a shutoff notice. For all shutoff notices, a twenty dollar
($20.00) shutoff notice fee will be added to the water bill on the following
month.
   C.   Reconnection Fee: Upon the disconnection of any service, a charge of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be made for reconnecting or reinstating the
same during regular business hours and a charge of seventy five dollars
($75.00) after regular business hours (7:30 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Monday through
Friday) after payment in full of the current account plus any delinquent
charges incurred.
   D.   Lien Provisions:
      1.   Costs A Lien: In the event charges for water service become
delinquent and are not paid in accordance with the provisions of this section,
any delinquent charge for water service to any premises served by the village
water system shall constitute a lien upon the premises to which such water
services were supplied.
      2.   Notice Of Lien: In order to establish a lien upon the premises, the
village clerk shall send to the owner of record, as referenced by the
taxpayer's identification number, of the real estate served by the village
water system: a) a copy of each delinquency notice sent to the persons
delinquent in paying the charges or rates, or other notice sufficient to inform
the owner of record, as referenced by the taxpayer's identification number,
that the charges or rates have become delinquent; and b) a notice that unpaid
charges or rates may create a lien on the real estate served by the village
water system.
      3.   Statement Of Lien Claim: After sending the required notices, the
village clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause sworn statements
showing such delinquencies to be filed in the office of the county recorder of
deeds establishing, as a matter of record as to such real estate, the
delinquency of the payment for water services. Said statement shall contain the
legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a
notice that the village claims a lien for this amount, as well as for all
charges for water service subsequent to the period covered by the bill. The
filing of such statement shall be deemed notice for the payment of such charges
and for water service and penalties for late payment. The village clerk shall
cause a copy of the notice of the lien to be sent to the owner of record of the
real estate, as referenced by the taxpayer's identification number.
      4.   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the costs and expenses by the owner
or persons interested in such property, and upon payment of the recording fee
paid to the recorder of deeds to record the notice of lien, the lien shall be
released by the village, in writing, which release shall be forwarded to the
owner or occupant against whose name the lien was filed, and who shall be
responsible for bearing the recording fee to record the release of the lien.
      5.   Foreclosure Of Lien: The lien for water usage and other charges for
water service, including meters and parts thereof, unpaid for, established by
law against the premises and real estate upon or for which water furnished by
the village is used or supplied shall be enforced and foreclosed as provided
for under the laws of the state for foreclosure of such liens. (2016 Code)
7-4-10: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; RECONNECTIONS:
   A.   Discontinuance By Village: The village reserves the right to
discontinue service for any one or more of the following reasons or conditions:
      1.   Unauthorized use of or tampering with any curb stop, meter, meter
seal or other water supply property of the village water department or
affecting the village. Evidence of a broken meter seal or the insertion of a
bypass or other connection which could be used for the purpose of obtaining
unmetered water shall constitute sufficient evidence to justify discontinuance
of service in such instance.
      2.   Nonpayment for service rendered to the customer.
      3.   The existence of any piping cross connection with any other source
of supplier apparatus which may endanger the quality of the village water
supply.
      4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the premises for the purpose of
inspecting, reading, repairing, or removal of a meter.
      5.   Failure to repair any defect or leak in a service pipe within five
(5) days after discovery.
   B.   Request For Discontinuance By Consumer; Reconnections:
      1.   Any person desiring to discontinue the use of village water shall
give notice thereof to the water department, whereupon, the water billing clerk
shall proceed to have the meter read, notify the consumer of the amount of
water used and not paid for, and turn off the supply. He/she shall make his
records show such discontinuance and the date thereof. Such water supply may
again be turned on upon the consumer remitting payment to the water department
the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for turning the supply off, and an
additional twenty five dollars ($25.00) for turning the water supply on. The
consumer will be billed for these charges in addition to any arrearages for
water usage, if any. There will be no charge to the consumer when water is
turned off or on for the purpose of repair and/or replacement of service pipe.
      2.   The owner of any real estate to which the village water service is
extended may, at any time, whether a water bill is current or delinquent,
notify the water department, in writing on the form provided by the water
billing clerk, that such owner requests to have the water service to such
premises turned off, and acknowledging that a subsequent turn on of the water
service will require the turn on charge specified in this section. Upon receipt
of such request, the water billing clerk shall direct the water department to
turn off the water service to said premises within three (3) working days of
the receipt of the request from the owner. This subsection B2 shall not be
construed to allow the owner of any property to procure the turn off of water
service to said property against the will of any occupants (residential or
business) thereof.
      3.   On premises with no in house shutoff, water will be shut off one
time with no fee as long as an in house shutoff valve is installed by the
property owner.
      4.   A twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee will be assessed when the village
turns off water at the request of the customer for reason of vacation. A
separate turn on fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) will be imposed as well.
(2016 Code)
7-4-11: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER; COSTS AND CONSEQUENCES:
In any instance where evidence of a broken meter seal, unauthorized use of or
tampering with a curb stop, meter, meter seal or other water supply property of
the village water department, including, but not limited to (or affecting the
village), the insertion of a bypass or other connection for the apparent
purpose of obtaining unmetered water, is discovered, the customer shall pay the
village for the estimated quantity of water delivered and not registered, plus
the cost to restore the meter to proper working order and any other expense
necessitated to correct or repair any damage resulting from such unauthorized
use of or tampering with any curb stop, meter seal, or other water supply
property of the village water department. Restoration or reconnection of water
service will be made only after all such fees as well as any delinquent water
charges have been paid. In addition to the above penalties, an ordinance
violation will be assessed at one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per each
offense. (2016 Code)
7-4-12: EMERGENCY SITUATIONS:
   A.   Authority To Shut Off Water: In case of fire or an alarm of fire, or in
making emergency repairs, or constructing new works, the village reserves the
right to shut off the water supply at once without notice and keep it shut off
as long as may be necessary.
   B.   Conservation Measures: Whenever, in the judgment of the village
president, a drought or public exigency may require it, the president shall
have the right and authority to limit, in respect of time and quantity, the use
of village water and, during such time, may wholly suspend and prohibit the use
of village water for public or private fountains, sprinkling, or any purpose
except for immediate domestic use until such exigency has passed. This public
proclamation must be published in the village newspaper, or if no newspaper is
published therein, then in a newspaper of general circulation in the village,
or posted in at least five (5) conspicuous places in the village where same may
be easily seen and read. (2016 Code)
7-4-13: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unauthorized Turning On Of Water: No person shall, without authority,
turn on the supply of water to any premises from which such supply has been
shut off for any cause.
   B.   Supplying Water To Others: No water taker or consumer shall supply
other persons or families with village water, or suffer them to take water from
his service pipes, except for temporary use or for drinking upon the premises
where furnished.
   C.   Wasting Water: Hydrants, taps, hoses, water closets, urinals, baths,
and all other fixtures consuming village water must not be allowed to run when
not in use, under penalty of having the water shut off with notice.
   D.   Use Of Hydrants: All fire hydrants are declared to be public hydrants.
No person other than a village employee, village officer, or a member of the
Hudson fire protection district (when conducting official business, such as
training exercises, cleaning of equipment, or responding to a fire or other
emergency), or a member of any other area fire department, or other appropriate
emergency response official (when responding in an emergency situation) shall
open any village fire hydrant or attempt to draw any water from same.
   E.   Damaging Water Facilities: No person shall, without authority, mark,
deface, injure, meddle with, remove, displace, or destroy any of the water
mains, fire hydrants, service pipes, water meters, shutoff boxes, public
fountains, valves, water tower, or building connected to the water system or
plant, or to cause, suffer, or permit any of said things to be done.
   F.   Obstructing Water Facilities: No person shall in any manner obstruct
the access to any stopcock, hydrant or valve, or any public faucet or opening
for taking water in any street, alley, public ground or place connected with or
part of the water system, nor pile or place any lumber, brick, or building
material or other article, thing, or hindrance within twelve feet (12') of the
same, or so as to in any manner hinder, delay, or obstruct the members of the
Hudson fire protection district in reaching the same. (2016 Code)
7-4-14: ENTRY POWERS:
The water superintendent or any person authorized by him/her shall, at all
reasonable hours in the daytime, have the right to enter into and upon any
premises wherein a water meter may be located in the village for the purpose of
reading, inspection, examination, removal, renewal, or repairing the meter.
(2016 Code)
7-4-15: RECORDS KEPT:
It shall be the duty of the water clerk, in addition to other duties required
of him/her, to keep a carefully revised list of the names of all consumers of
village water where a meter is placed or village water furnished and keep a
record of the amount of water consumed by each and the amount paid or
delinquent. (2016 Code)
7-4-16: POWERS OF VILLAGE OFFICERS LIMITED:
All powers herein granted to or conferred upon the various village officers
shall at all times be subject to the approval of the village board, and nothing
herein contained shall be construed as divesting the village board of trustees
of any right or privilege which it may have or enjoy by virtue of any law of
the state or the ordinances of the village, but the powers are herein granted
for purposes of convenience, both to the consumers of village water and the
village. (2016 Code)
7-4-17: LIABILITY FOR SERVICE; PENALTY:
   A.   The owner of any lot, building or premises and the occupant thereof,
and the user of the water service of the village water system serving any such
premises, shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for such service to said
premises. Water service to any property served by the water system of the
village shall be furnished to such property by the village only upon the
condition that the owner of such property, occupant of the property and user of
the water service shall all be jointly and severally liable to the village.
   B.   The rules, regulations and water usage herein mentioned shall be
considered a part of the contract of every person supplied with water through
the water system of the village. Every person, by taking water therefrom, shall
be held and considered as expressing his assent to be bound thereby, and for a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the water may be cut off
from the premises where furnished to the person so offending. The penalty
provided in this subsection shall be in addition to any other penalty herein
expressed. (2016 Code)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4A-1: Purpose
7-4A-2: Scope
7-4A-3: Village Policy
7-4A-4: Definitions
7-4A-5: Water System
7-4A-6: Cross Connections Restricted
7-4A-7: Backflow Prevention
7-4A-8: Booster Pumps
7-4A-9: Inspections
7-4A-10: Enforcement
7-4A-11: Nonliability Of Village
7-4A-12: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
7-4A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is:
   A.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
   B.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
   C.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems. (2016 Code)
7-4A-2: SCOPE:
This article shall apply to all premises served by the public potable water
supply system of the village. (2016 Code)
7-4A-3: VILLAGE POLICY:
The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system of the village from contamination due to backflow or
back siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service connection.
If, in the judgment of the water superintendent or his authorized
representative, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the water superintendent shall give
notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at
each service connection to the premises. The consumer shall immediately install
such approved devices at the consumer's own expense. Failure, refusal or
inability on the part of the consumer to install such devices immediately shall
constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
devices have been installed. (2016 Code)
7-4A-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
AGENCY: Illinois environmental protection agency.
APPROVED: Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research
Foundation For Cross Connection Control Of The University Of Southern
California, Association Of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM: Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the village of Hudson does not have control.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
plumbing code and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
CONSUMER OR CUSTOMER: The owner, official custodian or person in control of any
premises supplied by or in any manner connected to the public water system of
the village of Hudson.
CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system located on the customer's premises. A
building plumbing system is considered to be "consumer's water system".
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   Direct Cross Connection: A cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   Indirect Cross Connection: A cross connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE standard 1015. A "double check valve
assembly" must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well
being of consumers. The word "severe", as used to qualify a health hazard,
means a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in
death or significant reduction in the quality of life.
INSPECTION: A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing
code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative code 654.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system by any person. "Plumbing" includes all piping, fixtures,
appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes, including,
without limitation, lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a private water
supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or at the curb to,
within and about any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work
or assemble. "Plumbing" includes:
   A.   All piping from discharge of pumping units to and including pressure
tanks in water supply systems.
   B.   All piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
POTABLE WATER: Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois administrative
code 654 for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
POTENTIAL CROSS CONNECTION: A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
PROCESS FLUID(S): Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a consumer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Polluted or contaminated waters.
   B.   Process waters.
   C.   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality.
   D.   Cooling waters.
   E.   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams, or irrigation systems.
   F.   Chemicals in solution or suspension.
   G.   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public by the village of Hudson, including
wells and well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment
plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally,
actually used or intended for use for the purpose of furnishing water for
drinking or general domestic use and which serve at least fifteen (15) service
connections or which regularly serve at least twenty five (25) persons at least
sixty (60) days per year. A "public water supply" is either a community water
supply or a noncommunity water supply.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device containing a
minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves, together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013. During normal flow
and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two (2) checks
shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check
valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall
operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the
supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located
at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly
located test cocks.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at
the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
SUPERINTENDENT: The water superintendent of the village of Hudson, Illinois, or
the holder of any position or office succeeding to the duties and
responsibilities now deemed to be those of the holder of that position.
SURVEY: The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping system
regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply system and
must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date of
all cross connection control devices and methods located within that customer's
piping system. The "survey" must be in written form, and should not be an
actual plumbing inspection.
SYSTEM HAZARD: A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
USED WATER: Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a consumer's
water system after it has passed through the service connection and is no
longer under the control of the public water supply's official custodian.
VILLAGE: The village of Hudson, McLean County, Illinois.
WATER PURVEYOR: The owner or official custodian of the public water system -
the village of Hudson. (2016 Code)
7-4A-5: WATER SYSTEM:
The water system shall be considered as made up of two (2) parts: the public
water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   A.   Public Water System: The public water supply system shall consist of
the source facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those
facilities of the potable water system under the control of the superintendent
up to the point where the consumer's water system begins.
      1.   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public
water supply distribution system.
      2.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's
water system.
   B.   Consumer's Water System: The consumer's water system shall include all
parts of the facilities beyond the service connection used to convey water from
the public water supply distribution system to points of use. (2016 Code)
7-4A-6: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village shall enter the supply or distribution system of
the village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
superintendent and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   B.   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   C.   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the water
superintendent or designee.
   D.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter the public water supply.
   E.   All plumbing installed within the village shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code
890. If, in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of
the superintendent, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent will give notice
to the water customer to install such an approved device immediately. (2016
Code)
7-4A-7: BACKFLOW PREVENTION:
   A.   Responsibility Of Water Consumer: It is the responsibility of the water
consumer to prevent backflow into the public water system by ensuring that:
      1.   All cross connections are removed, or approved cross connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
      2.   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions.
      3.   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the village as a
cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
      4.   Testing is conducted and records maintained as follows:
         a.   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         b.   Records submitted to the village shall be available for
inspection by village personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/4(e).
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached thereto listing the date of
the most recent test, the name of CCCDI, and the type and date of repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and shall include:
            (1)   Date of each test;
            (2)   Name and approval number of the person performing the test;
            (3)   Test results;
            (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
            (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
            (6)   Service performed and date completed.
   B.   Protection Devices Required:
      1.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the plumbing code, 77
Illinois administrative code 890, and the agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
administrative code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving
premises where, in the judgment of the superintendent, actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply system exist.
      2.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
         a.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the superintendent, and the
source is approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
         b.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the superintendent.
         c.   Premises having internal cross connection that, in the judgment
of the superintendent and the cross connection control device inspector, are
not correctable or are intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
         d.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
         e.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      3.   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the plumbing code,
Illinois administrative code 890, and the agency's regulations, 35 Illinois
administrative code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system serving,
but not necessarily limited to, the following types of facilities, unless the
superintendent determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public
water supply system exists:
         Car washes.
         Chemical plants.
         Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
         Food or beverage processing plants.
         Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
         Laboratories.
         Metal plating industries.
         Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
         Petroleum processing or storage plants.
         Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
         Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater pumping
stations.
   C.   Type Of Protection Required:
      1.   The type of protection required under subsection B of this section
shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
         a.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
         b.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
         c.   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where
the public water supply system may be polluted with substances that could cause
a pollution hazard not dangerous to health.
      2.   The type of protection required under subsection C1 of this section
shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device.
      3.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for
a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall
be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
         a.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals; or
         b.   Water is pumped into the system from another source; or
         c.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source, or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
         d.   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to
the sprinkler system.
   D.   Approved Prevention Devices:
      1.   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by this article
shall be approved by the Research Foundation For Cross Connection Control Of
The University Of Southern California, American Water Works Association,
American Society Of Sanitary Engineering or American National Standards
Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be in
compliance with applicable industry specifications.
      2.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with 35
Illinois administrative code 653.802, and only as specified by the Research
Foundation For Cross Connection Control Of The University Of Southern
California or applicable industry specifications. Maintenance as recommended by
the manufacturer of the device shall be performed. The manufacturer's
maintenance manual shall be available on site.
   E.   Inspections, Tests, Maintenance And Repairs:
      1.   Schedule: It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on
which backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are installed
to have inspections, tests, maintenance and repairs made in accordance with the
following schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer's instructions:
         a.   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter.
         b.   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at
the time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five (5) days.
      2.   Approved Testing: Testing shall be performed by a person who has
been approved by the agency as competent to service the device. Proof of
approval shall be in writing.
      3.   Inspection Tag: Each device shall have a tag attached thereto
listing the date of most recent test or visual inspection, name of tester, and
type and date of repairs.
      4.   Maintenance Log: A maintenance log shall be maintained and shall
include:
         a.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
         b.   Name and approval number of persons performing the test or visual
inspection;
         c.   Test results;
         d.   Repairs or servicing required;
         e.   Repairs and date completed; and
         f.   Servicing performed and date completed.
      5.   Repair Or Replacement Of Defective Devices: Whenever backflow
prevention devices required by this article are found to be defective, they
shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the consumer without delay.
   F.   Authorization Required For Cessation Of Use: Backflow prevention
devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative, removed or otherwise made
ineffective without specific authorization by the superintendent. (2016 Code)
7-4A-8: BOOSTER PUMPS:
   A.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or less.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify, in writing, to the
superintendent, at least once a year, that the device is operable. (2016 Code)
7-4A-9: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Right Of Entry:
      1.   The water superintendent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by connection to the public water supply or
distribution system of the village for the purpose of verifying the presence or
absence of cross connections. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any
property so served shall furnish to the superintendent any information which
the superintendent or his agent may request regarding the piping systems or
water use on such property. The refusal to provide such information, when
demanded, shall, with the discretion of the superintendent, be deemed evidence
of the presence of improper connections as provided in this article.
      2.   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
water superintendent or designee for the inspection of the presence or absence
of cross connections within the consumer's premises and testing, repair and
maintenance of cross connection control devices within the consumer's premises.
   B.   Consumer Furnish Information; Verification By Inspector: On request by
the superintendent or his authorized representative, the consumer shall furnish
information regarding the piping systems or water use within the consumer's
premises. The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
superintendent or his agent for the verification of information submitted by
the consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross connection
inspection results. (2016 Code)
7-4A-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to deny or
discontinue, after reasonable notice in writing to the occupants thereof, the
water service to any premises wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this article is known to exist, or wherein any backflow
prevention device required by this article is not installed, tested, maintained
and repaired in a manner acceptable to the superintendent, or if it is found
that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure
cutoff required by this article is not installed and maintained in working
order. The superintendent is further authorized and directed to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any other danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains and other pipes.
Water service to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have
been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this article,
and until a reconnection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) is paid to the
village.
   B.   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
superintendent is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification to the occupants of the property of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply;
provided, that in the reasonable opinion of the superintendent or agency, such
action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of
the public water supply. (2016 Code)
7-4A-11: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
Neither the village, the superintendent, nor the agent or employee of either,
nor the assigns of the village shall be liable to any customer for any injury,
damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of a customer's
water supply in accordance with the terms of this article, whether or not said
termination was with or without notice. (2016 Code)
7-4A-12: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system of the village. (2016 Code)
TITLE 8
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: General Requirements On Building Codes
8-1-1-1: Scope
8-1-1-2: Construction Of Chapter
8-1-1-3: Conflict Of Provisions Of Codes Of The Village
8-1-1-4: Severability
8-1-1-5: Penalties
8-1-2: Adoption Of Applicable Codes
8-1-3: Permit Procedures
8-1-3-1: Plan Submittal
8-1-3-2: Site Plan Information
8-1-3-3: Permit Requirements
8-1-3-4: Required Building Inspections
8-1-3-5: Occupancy Requirements
8-1-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS ON BUILDING CODES:
8-1-1-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this Chapter shall control the design and installation of all
building construction within the Village of Hudson, including but not limited
to, the erection, construction, maintenance, enlargement, rebuilding,
alteration, repair, moving, shoring, removal, demolition and conversion of
occupancy of buildings, structures, property and portions thereof, and the
maintenance and installation of plumbing equipment, heating equipment, boilers,
elevators and electrical wiring and appliances, including mechanical
ventilation and natural lighting fixtures located therein.
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any building
construction regulated by this Chapter in any way other than that authorized by
this Chapter and the technical codes as adopted and modified hereby.
The requirements contained in this Chapter covering the maintenance of
buildings and property shall apply to all property, buildings or structures now
existing or hereafter erected. All property, buildings or structures and all
parts thereof shall be maintained in a safe condition and all devices or
safeguards which are required by this Chapter during the construction,
alteration or repair of any building shall be maintained in good working order.
This Chapter shall not be construed as permitting the removal or non-
maintenance of any previously authorized or required device or safeguards
unless such removal or non-maintenance is authorized in writing by the Building
Commissioner.
(Ord. 1373, 10-3-2023)
8-1-1-2: CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to exempt any person, firm or
corporation from liability now existing or that may in the future arise to the
Village of Hudson or any other person, firm or corporation for damage from
negligence or from defective construction relating to the construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy, or
maintenance of any building or structure or the service equipment located
therein, within the corporate limits of the Village of Hudson or on Village
property outside the corporate limits, nor to release any person, firm or
corporation from any franchise restrictions, nor shall the Village be held to
assume any liability by reason of the inspections authorized herein or
certificates or permits issued hereunder or from failure of the Building
Official or member of the Building Inspection Department to perform his or her
duties hereunder.
(Ord. 1373, 10-3-2023)
8-1-1-3: CONFLICT OF PROVISIONS OF CODES OF THE VILLAGE:
In any where a provision of this Chapter is found to be in conflict with any
Zoning, Fire, Safety or Health provision of the Municipal Code of the Village
of Hudson existing on the effective date of this Chapter or which hereafter may
exist, the provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion
and protection of the health and safety of the people of the Village shall
prevail. In any case where any other Code provisions of the Village establishes
a lower standard for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of
the Village’s people, the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed to
prevail.
(Ord. 1373, 10-3-2023)
8-1-1-4: SEVERABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Village Board of the Village
of Hudson, Illinois, that the several provisions of this Chapter are severable
in accordance with the following:
   A.   If any Court of competent jurisdiction adjudges any provision of this
Chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions of
this Chapter not specifically included in such judgment order.
   B.   If any Court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this Chapter to a particular property, building
or structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provision
to any other property, building or structure not specifically included in such
judgment order.
(Ord. 1373, 10-3-2023)
8-1-1-5: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the investigation or
enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any of the Codes
adopted and modified hereby, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than One hundred fifty ($150.00) Dollars nor more than Seven
Hundred Fifty ($750.00) Dollars for the first offense and not less than Two
hundred fifty ($250.00) Dollars nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty ($750.00)
Dollars for the second and each subsequent offense in any 180 day period. A
separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon
which said person shall continue any such violation or permit any such
violation to exist after notification or knowledge of the existence thereof.
(Ord. 1373, 10-3-2023)
8-1-2: ADOPTION OF APPLICABLE CODES:
The following Codes are adopted by the Village of Hudson. Not less than one
copy of any Code adopted by this Division with the specified additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications, and amendments shall be filed and kept at
the Office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Hudson.
A.   Adoption of the International Building Code 2021 with Amendments. There is
hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of establishing rules,
standards, regulations and procedures for the location, construction,
maintenance, alteration, removal, demolition, use and occupancy of buildings
and structures and the service equipment located within such buildings or
structures, a Building Code known as the International Building Code 2021,
published by International Code Council, with specific additions, deletions,
insertions, modifications and amendments as set forth in this Chapter, which
said Code as so amended is hereinafter referred to as the “IBC.” The provisions
of said Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length and the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and
amended by this Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all buildings and
structures within the corporate limits of the Village. Amendments to the
Building Code. The International Building Code, 2021, is amended as follows:
   1.   Insert the phrase “Village of Hudson, Illinois” in all locations in the
IBC where parenthetical reference is made to the “name of jurisdiction”.
   2.   Section 101.2 - Scope. Add the Phrase “in zero lot-line construction,”
before the words “multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than
three stories above grade plane in height with a separate means of egress.”
   3.   Section 101.4.3 - Plumbing. Substitute the word “Village’s” for the
word “International” in the first sentence and delete the second sentence.
   4.   Delete Section 102.4, 102.4.1, and 102.4.2 and substitute the
following:
      The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered part
of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this Code and other
adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   5.   Delete Section 103 - Code Compliance Agency and insert in lieu thereof
the following:
      Section 103.0 - Department of Building Safety
      Section 103.1 - Building Inspection Department. The Building Inspection
Department of the Village of Hudson shall be the “Department of Building
Safety” as that term is used in this Code.
      Section 103.2 - Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner of the
Village of Hudson shall be the “Building Official” as that term is used in this
Code.
      Section 103.3 - Restriction of Employees. The Building Official or
employee connected with the Department of Building Inspection shall not be
engaged in or directly or indirectly connected with the furnishing of labor,
materials or appliances for the preparation of plans or the specifications
therefore, unless he is the owner of the building, nor shall such officer or
employee engage in any work which conflicts with his official duties or with
the interests of the Department.
   6.   Delete Sections 104.8 and 104.8.1.
   7.   Add a new sentence at the beginning of Section 105.5 - Expiration as
follows:
      Every permit issued shall expire and become invalid 180 days after
issuance or a later date if a later date is indicated on the permit by the
building official.
   8.   Add the following Section 105.8 - Additional Permit Requirements:
      Section 105.8 - Miscellaneous Permit Requirements: No building permit
shall issue until the following conditions are met:
         a.   Storm Water Storage. No person, firm, corporation or agency shall
be issued a building permit under this Chapter unless and until all applicable
requirements are met as set forth in the Municipal Code of the Village of
Hudson as amended.
   9.   Section 107.5 - Retention of Construction Documents. Delete this
Section.
   10.   Add at the end of Section 109.2 - Schedule of Permit Fees the
following:
         a.   General. The fee for a permit shall be based upon the reasonable
cost of the improvements, including material and labor in accordance with the
fee schedule of sub-section (b) of this Section. Estimated cost shall include
all cost of labor and material given a fair market value. In the absence of a
bona fide contract establishing the estimated costs, the values for arriving at
the fee for a permit shall be established by the Code Official upon the basis
of area and type of construction.
         If any person initiates construction without first taking out a
permit, such person shall pay, in addition to the regular fees prescribed for
permits, an additional amount equal to one hundred per cent (100%) of the fee
required, and may be subject to all penalty provisions of this Chapter.
         b.   Fee Schedule. Fees shall be as set forth in the Village Code of
the Village of Hudson.
   11.   Add to the existing language of Section 111.3 - Temporary Occupancy,
the following:
      Temporary use or occupancy may be granted by the Code Official for a
maximum duration of one (1) month from the date of issuance. Such occupancy may
be further extended only by approval of the Mayor, subject to a favorable
safety inspection by the Building Inspector.
   12.   Add to the existing language of Section 112.1 - Connection of Service
Utilities the following:
      No utility meters shall be placed on the street side(s) of any commercial
or multiple-family building.
   13.   Delete Section 114.3 - Prosecution of Violation and substitute
therefore the following:
      In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Building
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or
to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the
structure. The Village may take action to abate any violation, and any costs
incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real estate upon
which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   14.   Delete the existing language of Section 114.4 - Violation Penalties,
and insert in lieu thereof, the following:
      Section 114.4 - Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating,
disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or
opposing the investigation or enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Chapter or any of the Codes as adopted and modified hereby may be subject to
the penalties prescribed in the general penalty provision of the Municipal Code
of the Village of Hudson, Illinois, as amended.
   15.   Add to Section 1027.1 - Exterior Exit Stairways and Ramps, as follows:
      No exterior stairways shall be placed or construed on the street side(s)
of commercial or multi-family buildings.
   16.   Add to Table 1607.1 Balconies (exterior) and Decks. Section 5 - Hotels
and Multiple-Family Dwellings - 100.
   17.   Delete the existing language of Section 2901.1 - Scope, and substitute
in lieu thereof, the following:
      Section 2901.1 - Scope. The design and installation of plumbing systems,
including sanitary and storm drainage, sanitary facilities, water supplies and
storm water and sewage disposal in buildings and structures, shall comply with
the requirements of this Article, and the requirements of the Plumbing Code of
the Village of Hudson.
   18.   Add Section 3001.6, as follows:
      Section 3001.6 Each elevator must comply with all state laws, including
required inspections, and must display any certificate of inspection. A copy of
proof of compliance with the state statute must be sent to the Building
Official upon the demand of the Building Official.
B.   Adoption of the International Residential Code 2021 with Amendments. There
is hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of regulating and
controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use of maintenance of building systems in residential buildings thereto, a
building code known as the International Residential Code, 2021 Edition,
published by the International Code Council, as amended thereto with specific
additions, deletions, insertions, modifications, and amendments, as set forth
in this Chapter which said Code as so amended is hereinafter referred to as the
“International Residential Code.” The provisions of said Code are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length and the provisions
thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by this Chapter shall
be controlling in regard to all matters pertaining to the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location,
relocation, replacement, addition to, use of or maintenance of building systems
in residential buildings thereto. Amendments to the International Residential
Code. The International Residential Code, 2021, is amended as follows:
   1.   In Section 101.2 - Delete the exceptions and insert the phrase “in zero
lot-line construction” before the words:
      “townhouses not more than three stories above grade plan in height with a
separate means of egress and their accessory ...”
   2.   Delete Sections 102.4 inclusive of the exception, 102.4.1, and 102.4.2
and substitute the following:
      The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered part
of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference.
      Where differences occur between provisions of this Code and other adopted
codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   3.   Section 104.6 - Right of Entry. Delete this entire section and
substitute therefore the following: The Code Official of his designee is
authorized to enter the structure or premises to inspect, subject to
constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is
refused or not obtained, the Code Official is authorized to seek a search
warrant as authorized by law.
   4.   Section 105.2 - Work Exempt from Permit. In section Building 1, delete
the phrase “200 square feet (18.8 m2) and substitute therefore 144 square
feet”. In section Building 2, substitute ‘6 feet’ for ‘7 feet.’ Delete section
Building 10.
   5.   Add at the beginning of Section 105.5 - Expiration as follows:
      Every permit issued shall expire and become invalid 180 days after the
issuance or a later date if a later date is indicated on the permit by the
building official. A permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for a one-
time ninety (90) day extension provided the permittee can show good and
satisfactory reasons that the work cannot be completed within the initial one
hundred eighty (180) day period. No additional fee is required for a one- time
extension.
   6.   Section 105.8 - Responsibility. Add at the end of the Section the
following:
      Condition of Permits: A construction permit issued pursuant to the
Residential Code does not permit a person to perform electrical, plumbing, or
other mechanical work. All construction work performed in the Village of Hudson
shall be performed in accordance with all plans and specifications submitted to
the Village of Hudson for the issuance of a permit. It shall be unlawful for
any person to perform construction in a manner not consistent with the permit
issued. It shall be unlawful for any person to perform construction work for
which a permit is required without a permit. It shall be unlawful for any
person to perform construction work after a stop work order has been issued.
All framing, mechanical, plumbing, and electrical work must be inspected before
being covered. It is the responsibility of the permit holder to call for all
inspections. No permit shall be assigned or transferred to any other person.
   7.   Add the following Section 105.10 - Additional Permit Requirements.
      Section 105.10 - Miscellaneous Permit Requirements. No building permit
shall be issued until the following conditions are met:
         a.   Storm Water Storage. No person, firm, corporation or agency shall
be issued a building permit under this Chapter unless and until all applicable
requirements are met as set forth in the Municipal Code of the Village of
Hudson, as amended.
   8.   Section 106.3.1 - Approval of Construction Documents. Delete this
Section.
   9.   Amend Section 109.1.5 - Other Inspections to include:
      In addition to the called inspections above, a site inspection prior to
excavation, a pre-footing inspection prior to the placement of concrete and a
lot grading inspection shall all be required inspections enforced by the
Building Department.
   10.   Delete Section 113.3 - Prosecution of Violation and substitute
therefore:
      In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Building
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or
to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the
structure. The Village may take action to abate any violation, and any costs
incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real estate upon
which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   11.   Delete the existing language of Section 113.4 - Violation Penalties
and substitute in lieu therefore the following:
      Section 113.4 - Violation Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation
violating any provision of this Code shall be subject to the penalty provisions
provided in the general penalty provision as set forth in the Municipal Code of
the Village of Hudson, Illinois, as amended.
   12.   Amend Table No. 301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria as
follows:
         a.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (20psf) under “Ground Snow
Load”.
         b.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (107 mph) under “Wind Design
(Speed)”.
         c.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (No) under “Wind Design”
(Topographic effects).
         d.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (No) under “Wind Design”
(Special wind region).
         e.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (No) under “Wind Design” (Wind-
borne debris zone).
         f.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (A) under “Seismic Design
Category”.
         g.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (Severe) under “Subject to
Damage From” (Weathering).
         h.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (40”) under “Subject to Damage
From” (Frost Line Depth).
         i.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (Moderate to Heavy) under
“Subject to Damage From” (Termite).
         j.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (Yes) under “Ice Barrier
Underlayment Required.”
         k.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (Engineering Insurance Study)
under “Flood Hazards.”
         l.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (2000) under “Air Freezing
Index.”
         m.   Amend Table 301.2(1) by inserting (51 degrees) under “Mean Annual
Temp.”
   13.   Delete the word “Villagehouse” from Sections 302.2, 302.2.1 302.2.2,
302.2.3 and 302.2.6, and insert “Zero Lot Line Unit”.
   14.   Amend Section 302.2 - Villagehouses to read:
      Section 302.2 - Zero Lot Line Units. Each zero lot line unit shall be
considered a separate building and shall be separated by 2-hour assembly from
the foundation to roof underside. The assembly shall be continuous and shall
not be interrupted by unit partitions. This assembly shall be a UL listed or
USG approved.
   15.   Amend Section 302.6 - Dwelling/garage fire separation by adding the
following sentence:
      With a detached garage where the separation between the garage and
another structure is less than 10’, the entire garage shall be protected by 1/
2" gypsum board applied to the inside of the garage.
   16.   Amend Section R312.1 - Guards, specifically R312.1.1 through R312.1.3
as follows:
      The Code Official shall have the authority to provide relief from the
provisions of these sections where an existing structure is located in a
designated Historic District, identified in The Legacy, or included in a
Village Initiated historical survey as a potential historic structure.
      The relief shall be limited to exterior applications and attributed to
maintaining the architectural integrity of the structure as approved by the
Historic Preservation Commission, or an appointed designee. (Added 12/18/17 by
Ord. No. 5724)
   17.   Delete Section 313 - Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems.
   18.   Amend Section 401.3 - Drainage to read:
      Lot grading shall comply with the approved verified subdivision grading
plan as submitted by the lot developer. In addition, sump pump discharge lines
shall be connected to the storm water drainage system where provided.
   19.   Amend Section 403.1.6 - Foundation Anchorage. Delete exceptions 2 and
3.
   20.   Delete the following Chapters in their entirety.
         a.   Chapter 11 - Energy Efficiency.
         b.   Chapter 25 - Plumbing Administration.
         c.   Chapter 26 - General Plumbing Requirements.
         d.   Chapter 27 - Plumbing Fixtures.
         e.   Chapter 28 - Water Heaters.
         f.   Chapter 29 - Water Supply and Distribution.
         g.   Chapter 30 - Sanitary Drainage.
         h.   Chapter 31 - Vents.
         i.   Chapter 32 - Traps.
         j.   Chapter 33 - Storm Drainage.
         k.   Chapter 34 - General Requirements.
         l.   Chapter 35 - Electrical Definitions.
         m.   Chapter 36 - Services.
         n.   Chapter 37 - Branch Circuit and Feeder Requirements.
         o.   Chapter 38 - Wiring Methods.
         p.   Chapter 39 - Power and Lighting Distribution.
         q.   Chapter 40 - Devices and Luminaires.
         r.   Chapter 41 - Appliance Installation.
         s.   Chapter 42 - Swimming pools.
         t.   Chapter 43 - Class 2 Remote Control Signaling and Power-Limited
Circuits.
   21.   Delete the following Appendices:
         a.   Appendix AA. Sizing and Capacities of Gas Piping.
         b.   Appendix AB. Sizing of Venting Systems Serving Appliances
Equipped with Draft Hoods, Category I Appliances, and Appliances Listed for Use
with Type B Vents.
         c.   Appendix AC. Exit Terminals of Mechanical Draft and Direct-Vent
Venting Systems.
         d.   Appendix AD. Recommended Procedure for Safety Inspection of an
Existing Appliance Installation.
         e.   Appendix AE. Manufactured Housing Used as Dwellings.
         f.   Appendix AF. Radon Control Methods.
         g.   Appendix AG. Piping Standards for Various Applications.
         h.   Appendix AH. Patio Covers.
         i.   Appendix AI. Private Sewage Disposal.
         j.   Appendix AJ. Existing Buildings and Structures.
         k.   Appendix AK. Sound Transmission.
         l.   Appendix AL. Permit Fees.
         m.   Appendix AM. Home Day Care - R-3 Occupancy.
         n.   Appendix AN. Venting Methods.
         o.   Appendix AO. Automatic Vehicular Gates.
         p.   Appendix AP. Sizing of Water Piping System.
         q.   Appendix AR. Light Straw Clay Construction.
         r.   Appendix AS. Strawbale Construction.
C.   Adoption of the International Existing Building Code 2021 with Amendments.
There is hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of regulating
and controlling the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use of and maintenance of existing buildings, a building code known as the
International Existing Building Code, 2021 Edition, published by the
International Code Council, as amended thereto with specific additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications, and amendments, as set forth in this
Chapter which said Code as so amended is hereinafter referred to as the
“International Existing Building Code.” The provisions of said Code are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length and the provisions
thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by this Chapter shall
be controlling in regard to all matters pertaining to the design, construction,
quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, replacement,
addition to, use of or maintenance of existing buildings. Amendments to the
International Existing Building Code, The International Existing Building Code,
2021 is amended as follows:
   1.   Insert the phrase “Village of Hudson, Illinois” in all locations in the
International Existing Building Code where parenthetical reference is made to
the “name of jurisdiction”.
   2.   Delete Section 101.7 - Correction of Violations of Other Codes.
   3.   Delete Section 102.4, 102.4.1, and 102.4.2 and substitute the
following:
      The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered part
of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this Code and other
adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   4.   Section 104.2.2. Replace the word “shall” with the word “may” in this
Section and delete the exception.
   5.   Delete Sections 104.8 and 104.8.1.
   6.   Delete Section 105.1.1 and 105.1.2.
   7.   Add a new sentence at the beginning of Section 105.5 Expiration as
follows:
      Every permit issued shall expire and become invalid 180 days after
issuance or a later date if a later date is indicated on the permit by the
building official.
   8.   Add the following Section:
      Section 105.8 - Permit - Demolition.
      Before any permit required by this Division is issued granting authority
to wreck a building or structure, the person engaged in the work of wrecking,
hereafter the wrecking contractor, shall file with the Village Clerk, a
Certificate of Liability Insurance from an insurance company authorized to do
business in the State of Illinois. Said Certificate shall designate the
specific job to be performed by said contractor and designate coverage provided
by such policy as required below. Said Certificate shall name the Village as an
additional insured. The policy shall:
         a.   Insure both parties for single limit coverage for bodily injury
and property damage for at least $300,000.00 per occurrence and aggregate, and
shall contain both general and automobile coverages; or
         b.   Provide at least $100,000.00 worth of coverage for bodily injury
per individual and $300,000.00 of bodily injury coverage per occurrence and
$100,000.00 of property damage coverage for both general and automobile
coverages. A Certificate shall also be provided showing the wrecking contractor
has adequate worker’s compensation insurance in accordance with the Workmen’s
Compensation Act and the Workmen’s Occupational Disease Acts of Illinois, as
amended. The foregoing insurance requirement may be waived at the discretion of
the Code Official where:
         (1)   The estimated cost of demolition of a structure including
removal of the debris and clearing of the site is less than Five Hundred
Dollars ($500.00).
         (2)   No extra hazardous conditions exist.
         (3)   The demolition permit is being sought by the owner of the
structure.
   9.   Add the following Section:
      Section 105.9 - Moving Buildings.
         a.   Permit Required. No person, firm, or corporation shall move any
building along the public streets, alleys or other places within said Village
unless he shall first obtain a license as a house mover under a penalty of not
less than $150.00 nor more than $750.00 for each offense. Each day that any
such violation or failure continues shall be considered as a separate and
distinct offense and shall be punishable as such.
         b.   Bond. Any person may obtain a license as a house mover upon the
payment of a license fee of $25.00 per annum and the furnishing to the Village
Clerk, a Certificate of Liability Insurance from an insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Illinois. Said Certificate shall
designate the specific job to be performed by said mover and designate coverage
provided by such policy as required below. Said Certificate shall name the
Village as an additional insured. The policy shall:
         (1)   Insure both parties for single limit coverage for bodily injury
and property damage for at least $300,000.00 per occurrence and aggregate, and
shall contain both general and automobile coverages; or
         (2)   Provide at least $100,000.00 worth of coverage for bodily injury
per individual and $300,000.00 of bodily injury coverage per occurrence and
$100,000.00 of property damage coverage for both general and automobile
coverages. A Certificate shall also be provided showing the mover has adequate
Workmen’s Compensation Insurance in accordance with the Workmen’s Compensation
Act and the Workmen’s Occupational Disease Acts of Illinois, as amended.
         c.   Application and Permit Required. Prior to an issuance of a moving
permit, a “Building Moving Application” must be submitted to the Inspection
Department for approval. The fee for a permit authorizing the moving of
buildings shall be $200.00 for a dwelling unit or other structure and a $100.00
for a garage.
         d.   Building Moved to Comply with Ordinances. No wooden building,
within or not within the fire limits, shall be moved to any lot or part of lot
within the fire limits and all buildings, when so moved, shall thereafter
comply with the existing building regulations as set forth in various
Ordinances of the Village.
         e.   Lights and Warnings. Whenever a street or alley is blocked by a
house or structure which is being moved, warnings to that effect shall be
placed by the Police Department so as to warn vehicles and persons from
entering that portion of the street so blocked. The person, firm or corporation
moving any building through the streets shall keep warning signs and lanterns
or lights on the building so as to guard against any person or vehicle from
colliding with it.
         f.   Cutting Wires. Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with
the wires or cables of a public utility in moving a building, the terms of any
special or franchise Ordinance governing shall apply and the bond therein
specified shall be given. If no specific terms are spelled out, approval shall
first be obtained from the utility company involved and the costs or expenses
involved shall be paid to such utility company.
         g.   Fire Alarm Wires. When any moving building shall approach any
firm alarm wire or pole which shall be endangered by the removal of such
building or structure, it shall be the duty of the mover to notify the Chief of
Police at least six (6) hours before reaching such wire or pole so that they
may be removed or cared for by the Village authorities.
         h.   Additional Restrictions. No buildings shall be moved upon or
along any alley or other public thoroughfare without at least twenty-four (24)
hours’ notice in writing to the Fire Chief of the Village and whenever
possible, paved surfaces of streets, alleys or sidewalks shall be planked so as
not to be damaged by such moving operation. No permit shall entitle the mover
to cut or injure any tree unless special permission for same has been obtained
from the Director of Public Works.
   10.   Add the following Section 105.10 - Additional Permit Requirements:
      Section 105.10 - Miscellaneous Permit Requirements: No building permit
shall issue until the following conditions are met:
         a.   Storm Water Storage. No person, firm, corporation or agency shall
be issued a building permit under this Chapter unless and until all applicable
requirements are met as set forth in the Municipal Code of the Village of
Hudson, as amended.
   11.   Add at the end of Section 108.2 - Schedule of Permit Fees the
following:
         a.   General. The fee for a permit shall be based upon the reasonable
cost of the improvements, including material and labor in accordance with the
fee schedule of sub-section (b) of this Section. Estimated cost shall include
all cost of labor and material given a fair market value. In the absence of a
bona fide contract establishing the estimated costs, the values for arriving at
the fee for a permit shall be established by the Code Official upon the basis
of area and type of construction.
         b.   Fee Schedule. Fees shall be as set forth in the Municipal Code of
the Village of Hudson.
   12.   Section 108.4 - Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance. Delete the
language of this section and substitute in lieu thereof the following:
      If any person initiates construction without first taking out a permit,
such person shall pay, in addition to the regular fees prescribed for permits,
an additional amount equal to one hundred per cent (100%) of the fee required,
and may be subject to all penalty provisions of this Chapter.
   13.   Add to the existing language of Section 110.3 - Temporary Occupancy,
the following:
      Temporary use or occupancy may be granted by the Code Official for a
maximum duration of one (1) month from the date of issuance. Such occupancy may
be further extended only by approval of the Mayor, subject to a favorable
safety inspection by the Village.
   14.   Add to the existing language of Section 111.1 - Connection of Service
Utilities the following:
      No utility meters shall be placed on the street side(s) of any commercial
or multiple-family building.
   15.   Delete Section 113.3 - Prosecution of Violation and substitute
therefore the following:
      In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Building
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or
to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the
structure. The Village may take action to abate any violation, and any costs
incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real estate upon
which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   16.   Delete the existing language of Section 113.4 - Violation Penalties,
and insert in lieu thereof, the following:
      Section 114.4 - Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating,
disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or
opposing the investigation or enforcement of any of the provisions of this
Chapter or any of the Codes as adopted and modified hereby may be subject to
the general penalty provision as set forth in the Municipal Code of the Village
of Hudson, Illinois, as amended.
   17.   Section 115.4 - Method of Service. Add the following to the end of
this Section. Notice sent by regular First class mail to the last known address
of the owner shall be deemed to proper service.
   18.   Section 116.5 - Emergency Repairs. Substitute the word “owner” for the
word “jurisdiction” in the first sentence of this section.
   19.   Section 116.6 Hearing. Delete this Section.
D.   Adoption of the International Fire Code, 2021 with Amendments. There is
hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of establishing rules,
standards, regulations and procedures for the location, construction,
maintenance, alteration, use and occupancy of buildings, property and
structures with regard to fire safety and the materials and equipment located
within such buildings or structures and on property, a fire code known as the
International Fire Code 2021 Edition published by the International Code
Council as amended thereto with specific additions, deletions, insertions,
modifications, and amendments, as set forth in this Chapter which said Code as
so amended is hereinafter referred to as “IFC” The provisions of said Code are
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length and the
provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by
Paragraph C of this Section shall be controlling in regard to all buildings,
materials, equipment, property and structures within the corporate limits of
the Village. Nothing in the adoption of this International Fire Code is
intended to abrogate or modify provisions of the Fire Prevention Code adopted
at SEC. 6.4-1 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson. Whenever
provisions of this International Fire Code conflict or are different from the
Fire Prevention Code or any other Code adopted by the Village of Hudson, the
stricter Code Sections shall prevail. Amendments to the International Fire
Code, The International Fire Code, 2021, is amended as follows:
   1.   Delete Chapter 1 except for Section 105 and substitute for the deleted
Sections Chapter 1 of the International Building Code as adopted and amended by
the Village of Hudson as the administration chapter of this Fire Code. All
provisions of the International Fire Code shall be enforced in the manner
provided in the International Building Code, including penalties for violation.
Wherever in the International Fire Code reference is made to the “Fire
Official” the term “Building Official” as used in the International Building
Code shall be substituted.
   2.   Delete Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Locations and Distributions and
Appendix D - Fire Apparatus Access Roads.
   3.   Adopt as part of the International Fire Code Appendix B - Fire-Flow
Requirements for Buildings, Appendix E - Hazard Categories, Appendix F Hazard
Ranking and Appendix G Cryogenic Fluids - Weight and Volume Equivalents.
   4.   Adopt as part of the International Fire Code, Chapter 99 of the
National Fire Code, also known as NFPA 99, for the installation of all Medical
Gas Systems.
E.   Adoption of the International Mechanical Code, 2021 with Amendments. There
is hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the utilization of materials, construction,
installation, alteration, maintenance and repair of all mechanical systems,
heating systems, ventilating systems, cooling systems, steam and hot water
heating system process piping, boiler and pressure vessels, appliances
utilizing gas, liquid or solid fuels, chimneys and vents, mechanical
refrigeration systems, fireplaces, barbecues, incinerators, crematories and
other process matter or material regulated by or within the scope of the
International Mechanical Code, 2021, placed in or utilized in connection with
any building or structure within the Village of Hudson, a certain Code known as
the International Mechanical Code, published by the International Code Council,
Inc., particularly the 2021 Edition thereof, with specific additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications and amendments as set forth in this
Chapter, which said Code as so amended is in this Chapter is referred to as the
“International Mechanical Code.” The provisions of said Code are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length and the provisions thereof as
added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by this Chapter shall be
controlling in regard to all buildings and structures within the corporate
limits of the Village. Amendments to the International Mechanical Code, The
International Mechanical Code, 2021, is amended as follows:
   1.   Insert the phrase “Village of Hudson, Illinois” in all locations in the
International Mechanical Code, 2021, where parenthetical reference is made to
the “name of jurisdiction”.
   2.   Delete Section 102.8 - Referenced Codes and Standards and substitute
therefore the following:
      The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered part
of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between the provisions of this Code and
other adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   3.   Section 104.7 - Department Records. Delete this Section.
   4.   Sections 106.1.1 and 106.1.2 Annual permits. Delete these sections.
   5.   Section 106.4.3 - Expiration. Add the following sentence to the
beginning of this Section 106.4.3:
      Every permit issued shall expire and become invalid 180 days after
issuance or a later date if later date is indicated on the permit by the
building official.
   6.   Sections 106.1.1 and 106.1.2 Annual permits. Delete these sections.
   7.   Section 110.2 - Retention of Construction Documents. Delete this
Section.
   8.   Section 106.4.6 - Previous Approvals. Delete this Section.
   9.   In Section 109.2 insert the following: “See applicable provisions of
the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson, Illinois, as amended”.
   10.   Delete Section 109.6 - Fee Refunds.
   11.   Add Section 106.5.4 - Non-transferability as follows:
      SEC. 106.5.4 Non-Transferability. No license issued under this Division
or registration hereunder shall be loaned, rented, assigned or transferred.
   12.   Add Section 106.5.5 - Renewal and Reinstatement as follows:
      SEC. 106.5.5 - Renewal and Reinstatement. Any person, firm or corporation
receiving a Heating, Ventilating, Air Conditioning or Refrigeration License, as
provided for in this Chapter, has the right, without further examination, to
have that license renewed annually upon payment to the Village Treasurer of a
license fee and the execution or renewal of the bond required by this Chapter.
All licenses shall expire on the 31st day of December of each year. Any license
forfeited for non-payment of a renewal fee may be reinstated upon the payment
of the annual renewal fee without re-examination, provided however, after the
same has been delinquent for a period of one year, then the same shall be null
and void and may not be renewed or reinstated.
   13.   Add Section 106.5.6 - Revocation of Rights and Privileges as follows:
      SEC. 106.5.6 - Revocation of Rights and Privileges. Any licensee or
person registered in the Village of Hudson under this Chapter may have his
license or registration revoked by the Village Board for cause, after notice
and an opportunity to be heard in his own defense. Cause for revocation of a
license or registration shall include, but shall not be limited to:
         a.   Refusal or failure to make any necessary corrections to
mechanical, heating, ventilating, air conditioning or refrigeration work within
a reasonable time after notification of the defects therein.
         b.   Failure to obtain permits required by this Chapter.
         c.   Transfer of permits.
         d.   Failure to call for required inspections.
         e.   Unwillingness or inability to install mechanical, heating,
ventilating, air conditioning or refrigeration work in accordance with the
terms and provisions of this Chapter.
         f.   Performing work not authorized by the Class of license held.
         g.   Violation of any provision of this Chapter.
   14.   Section 115.1 - Unlawful Acts. Add the following at the end of Section
115.1:
      It shall be unlawful for any property owner to have on his or her
property any equipment which is in violation of any provision of this Code or
to allow any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct, alter, repair,
remove, demolish or utilize a mechanical system in violation of this code.
   15.   Section 115.2 - Notice of Violation. Substitute the word “may” for the
word “shall” in this Section. Add the following at the end of this Section:
      In addition Notice may be provided to the owner of any property upon
which a violation occurs. The owner of any property shall be responsible that
all mechanical systems on the property are in compliance with this Code.
   16.   Section 115.3 - Prosecution of Violation. Delete this Section and
substitute therefore the following:
      In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Code Official
may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to
obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require
the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the structure. The
Village may take action to abate any violation, and any costs incurred in
abating such violations may be charged against the real estate upon which such
abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   17.   Delete Section 115.4 - Violation Penalties and insert in lieu thereof
the following:
      Violation penalties. Persons who violate any provision of this Code shall
be subject to a penalty as set forth in the general penalty provision Municipal
Code of the Village of Hudson, Illinois..
   18   Delete Appendix B - Recommended Fee Schedules.
F.   Adoption of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 with Amendments. There
is hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the design, installation, alteration, maintenance and
repair of all fuel gas piping systems, fuel gas utilization equipment and
related accessories within the scope of the International Fuel Gas Code, 2021
placed in or utilized in connection with any building or structure within the
Village of Hudson, a certain Code known as the International Fuel Gas Code,
2021, of the International Code Council, Inc., with specific additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications and amendments as so amended is in this
Chapter referred to as the International Fuel Gas Code. The provisions of said
Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length and
the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by
this Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all buildings and structures
within the corporate limits of the Village Amendments to the International Fuel
Gas Code, The International Fuel Gas Code, 2021, is amended as follows:
   1.   Insert the phrase “Village of Hudson, Illinois” in all locations in the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2021, where parenthetical reference is made to the
“name of jurisdiction.”
   2.   Delete Section 102.8 - Referenced Codes and Standards and substitute
therefore the following:
      The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be considered part
of the requirements of this Code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this Code and other
adopted codes and standards, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   3.   Sections 106.1.1 and 106.1.2 - Annual permits. Delete these sections.
   4.   Section 106.5.3 - Expiration. Add the following sentence at the
beginning of this Section:
      Every permit issued shall expire and become invalid 180 days after the
issuance or a later date if a later date is indicated on the permit by the Code
official.
   5.   Section 107.2 - Retention of Construction Documents. Delete this
Section.
   6.   Section 106.5.6 - Previous Approvals. Delete this Section.
   7.   Section 109.2 - Schedule of Permit Fees. Insert “See the Municipal Code
of the Village of Hudson.”
   8.   Delete Section 109.6 - Fee Refunds.
   9.   Section 115.1 - Unlawful Acts. Add the following sentence at the end of
this Section:
      It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property to allow or permit any
erection, construction, alteration, repair, removal, demolition or utilization
of any equipment or piping in violation of any provision of this Code.
   10.   Section 115.2 - Notice of Violation. Substitute the word “may” for the
word “shall” in this section.
   11.   Section 115.3 - Prosecution of Violation. Delete this section and
insert in lieu thereof the following:
      In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Building
Official may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or
to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the
structure. The Village may take action to abate any violation, and any costs
incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real estate upon
which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   12.   Section 115.4 - Violation Penalties. Delete this Section and
substitute therefore the following:
      Section 115.4 - Violation Penalties - Any person, firm or corporation
violating any provision of this Code shall be subject to the penalty provisions
provided in the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson, Illinois, as amended.
   13.   Section 116 - Stop Work Orders. Delete the phrase “of not less than
(amount) or more than (amount) dollars” and substitute therefore the following
phrase “as set forth in the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson.”
G.   Adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code, 2021. There is
hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of ensuring the public
health, safety and welfare insofar as they are effected by the continued
occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises in the Village of Hudson,
and to prevent blight and deterioration of neighborhoods, a property
maintenance code known as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2021,
published by the International Code Council, Inc. with specific additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications and amendments as set forth in this
Chapter. The provisions of said International Property Maintenance Code, 2021
Edition, are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length,
and the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by
this Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all premises, buildings and
structures within the corporate limits of the Village. Amendments to the
International Property Maintenance Code, The International Property Maintenance
Code, 2021, is amended as follows:
   1.   Insert the phrase “Village of Hudson, Illinois” in all locations in the
International Property Maintenance Code where parenthetical reference is made
to the “name of jurisdiction”.
   2.   Section 101.3 - Delete the second sentence and substitute therefore the
following:
      An additional purpose of this Code is to prevent blight and deterioration
of neighborhoods. Existing structures and premises that do not comply with
these provisions and which do not meet a minimum level of health and safety
shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as
required herein.
   3.   Section 102.1 - Delete the second sentence.
   4.   Section 102.2 - Delete the last sentence and substitute therefore the
following:
      The owner and the owner’s designated agent shall be jointly and severally
responsible for the maintenance of buildings and structures and premises.
   5.   Section 102.3 - Delete this section in its entirety and substitute
therefore the following:
      Repairs, additions, or alterations to a structure, or changes of
occupancy shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the
appropriate zoning, building, mechanical, and other Codes of the Village of
Hudson. Nothing in this Code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside
any provision of the zoning, building, mechanical, or other Code of the Village
of Hudson.
   6.   Delete Sections 102.8, 102.8.1, and 102.8.2 and substitute therefore
the following:
      The codes and standards referenced in this Code shall be those that are
listed in this Chapter and considered part of the requirement of this Code to
the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between
provisions of this Code and the referenced standards, the more restrictive
provisions shall apply.
   7.   Section 105.3 - Right of Entry. Delete this entire Section and
substitute therefore the following: The Code Official or his designee is
authorized to enter the structure or premises to inspect, subject to
constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is
refused or not obtained, the Code Official is authorized to seek a search
warrant as authorized by law.
   8.   Section 109.2 - Notice of Violation. Add the following sentence:
      However, the failure to serve a notice shall not prevent the prosecution
of legal actions, including administrative adjudication procedures, seeking
fines and compliance with this Code.
   9.   Section 109.3 - Prosecution of Violation. Delete the existing language
and substitute therefore the following:
      In case of a violation of any provision of this Code, the Code Official
may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to
obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require
the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of the structure. Any
violation of any provision of this Code shall be deemed a strict liability
offense. The Village may take action to abate any violation, and any costs
incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real estate upon
which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
   10.   Section 109.4 - Violation Penalties. Delete the existing language and
substitute therefore the following:
      Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Code, upon
being found guilty, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $150.00 nor
more than $750.00 for each violation. Each day upon which a violation occurs or
remains shall be considered a separate and distinct offense and shall be
punishable as such.
   11.   Section 111.4 - Notice. Delete this section and substitute therefore
the following:
      Notice to Owner, Agent or Other Responsible Person. Whenever the Code
Official determines that there has been a violation of this Code or has grounds
to believe that a violation has occurred, notice may be given in the manner
prescribed in Sections 107.2 and 107.3 to the owner, agent or person
responsible for the maintenance of the property as specified in this Code.
Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply with Section 108.3.
   12.   Section 111.4.1 - Form. Delete this Section and substitute therefore
the following:
      Such notice prescribed in Section 107.1 shall be in accordance with all
of the following:
         i.   Be in writing.
         ii.   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
         iii.   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued.
         iv.   May include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to
make the repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or
structure into compliance with the provisions of this Code.
         v.   Inform the property owner, agent or other person responsible of
the right to appeal.
         vi.   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance
with Section 106.3.
   13.   Section 111.4.2 - Method of Service.
      Add the following language before the semi-colon in Section 107.3(2):
         “or the address listed in the Tax Assessor’s Office for receipt of the
property tax bill for the property”
   14.   Section 111.1 - General. Delete this section and substitute therefore:
      When a structure, property, or equipment is found by the Code Official to
be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is found
unlawful, such a structure may be condemned pursuant to the provisions of this
Code.
   15.   Section 111.1.1- Delete this section and substitute therefore:
      Unsafe property or structures. An unsafe property or an unsafe structure
is one that has any condition that is found to be an imminent danger to the
life, health, or safety of the occupants or the public. A structure is to be
deemed unsafe if the structure does not contain minimum safeguards to protect
from fire and to warn occupants in the event of fire.
      A structure is to be deemed unsafe if it contains unsafe equipment.
      A structure or property shall be deemed unsafe if it has holes in the
floors or ground such that a person could fall through the floor or into the
hole, except for excavation, which is lawfully fenced.
      A structure or property shall be deemed unsafe if it is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of such faulty construction or
unstable foundation that partial or complete collapse is possible.
   16.   Section 111.1.3 - Structure Unfit for Human Occupancy. Delete word
“unlawful” from this Section.
   17.   Section 111.2.1 - Authority to Disconnect Utilities. Delete the
existing language and substitute the following therefore: The Code Official or
his designee shall have the authority to authorize the disconnection of utility
service to the building, structure, or system in case of emergency where
necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property.
   18.   Section 111.3 - Record. Delete this Section in its entirety.
   19.   Section 111.4 - Notice. Delete this section and substitute therefore:
      Whenever the code official has condemned a structure or equipment under
the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on or about the structure affected by such notice and served on the owner or
the person or persons responsible for the structure or equipment in accordance
with Section 107.3. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also be
placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall be in the form prescribed
in the Section 107.2.
   20.   Section 112.5 - Costs of Emergency Repairs. In the first sentence
delete the word “jurisdiction” and substitute therefore the word “owner.”
   21.   Section 113.1 - General. Delete this Section and substitute therefore
the following:
      The Code Official may order the owner of any premises upon which is
located any structure, which is so dilapidated or out of repair as to be
dangerous, unsafe, or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, to
demolish and remove such structure, or, if such structure is capable of being
made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe at the owner’s option. The Code
Official may also order the demolition and removal or completion of any
structure under construction (including repairs) for which there has been a
cessation of construction for more than six months, or for which a construction
permit has been expired for more than six months.
   22.   Section 113.3 - Failure to Comply. Delete all of the language after
the word “liable” and substitute therefore the following: “for a fine as set
forth in this Code. Additionally, the Code Official may seek immediate
injunctive action to prevent further violation of the stop work order. Each day
upon which a violation occurs is a separate offense.”
   23.   Section 201.3 - Terms Defined in Other Codes. Delete this Section.
   24.   Section 202 - General Definitions.
      Delete the definitions of “Code Official”, Cost of Such Demolition or
Emergency Repairs”, “dwelling unit”, “historic building” “inoperable vehicle,”
“public way,” “rooming house”, “rooming unit” and “yard”.
      Insert the following definitions in the appropriate alphabetical place:
         Bed and Breakfast Establishments. An operator-occupied residence of
historical significance providing public accommodations for a charge only
breakfast may be provided to the guest. Bed and Breakfast establishments shall
not include motels, hotel, boarding rooms, boarding houses, rooming housing or
food service establishments.
         Code Official. The Code Official is the Building Commissioner of the
Village of Hudson, or any duly authorized representative of the Building
Commissioner.
         Deadbolt lock. Deadbolt lock shall mean a single cylinder deadbolt
that is locked or unlocked by key from the outside and thumb turn on the
inside. The deadbolt automatically deadlocks when it is fully extended. The
deadbolt shall contain case hardened steel material. Deadbolt locks shall meet
the following specification:
         i.   Throw. Minimum throw of one (1) inch which penetrates the strike
not less than three fourths (3/4) inch.
         ii.   Cylinders. The solid brass cylinder must have a minimum of five
(5) pin tumblers. The solid brass cylinder guard shall be designated or
protected so that it cannot be gripped by pliers or other wrenching devices.
         iii.   Back-set. The back-set must be a minimum of two and three-
eights (2 3/8) inches for a wood door and a minimum of two and three- fourths
(2 3/4) inches for a metal door.
         iv.   Striker Plate. Steel striker plates shall be located at the
point where the required lock engages the jamb and shall be secured with
hardened steel screws of sufficient length to screw one (1) inch into the two
by four (2X4) in the door frame.
         Domestic Utility Trailer. A single-axle trailer used for domestic or
recreational purposes only and not exceeding any of the following dimensions:
six (6) feet in width; twelve (12) feet in length or eight (8) feet in height.
No domestic utility trailer may be used for business or commercial purposes.
         Dormitory. A space in a building where group sleeping accommodations
are provided in one room, or in a series of closely associated rooms, for
persons not members of the same family.
         Duplex. A Duplex is a two-family dwelling.
         Dwelling Unit. A dwelling unit is one or more rooms arranged or
designed for the use of one group living together as a single housekeeping
unit.
         Dwelling, Multiple Family. A multiple-family dwelling is a building
containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
         Dwelling, One Family. A one family dwelling is a building containing
one (1) dwelling only.
         Dwelling, Two Family. A two-family dwelling is a building containing
two (2) dwelling units only.
         Efficiency Unit. An efficiency unit is a dwelling unit consisting of
one principal room with bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining alcove
off the principal room.
         Fire Equipment Distributor. A person or entity licensed as a Fire
Equipment Distributor by the State of Illinois pursuant to 225 ILCS 216/1 et
seq.
         Inoperable vehicle. Inoperable vehicle shall mean any vehicle which is
incapable of being operated on a public highway or which has not operated on
the highway for a period of eight (8) weeks whether the vehicle is operable or
not.
         Kitchen. A kitchen is any space used for the storage and preparation
of foods.
         Major Recreational Equipment. Major recreational equipment means
travel trailers (a vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation uses,
or one permanently identified as a Travel Trailer by the manufacturer of the
trailer); Pick-up Coaches (a structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation);
Motorhomes (a portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel, recreation
and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle);
Camping trailers (a canvas, material or metal folding structure, mounted on
wheels designed for travel, recreation and vacation use); boats; snowmobiles;
jet skis; all-terrain vehicles (ATV); dirt bikes; golf carts; and trailers
holding boats, snowmobiles, jet skis, all-terrain vehicles (ATV), dirt bikes or
golf carts.
         Noxious Weeds. Noxious weeds means any plant now or hereafter listed
by the State of Illinois as a noxious weed pursuant to the Illinois Noxious
Weed Act, 505 ILCS 100/1 et seq., any plant now or hereafter listed as an
exotic weed by the Illinois Exotic Weed Act, 525 ILCS 10/1 et seq., dandelions,
poison ivy (Toxicendron Radicans), Poison Oak (Toxicendron Querico- folium) and
Poison Sumac (Toxicendron Vernix).
         Person. Person means any natural person, partnership, corporation,
trust or other legal entity.
         Private Alarm Contractor. A person licensed by the State of Illinois
as a Private Alarm Contractor pursuant to 225 ILCS 446/1 et seq.
         Rodent. A rodent means a rat or a mouse.
         Rooming house. A rooming house is a residential building containing
one (1) or more rooming units.
         Rooming unit. A rooming unit is any room or group of rooms forming a
single unit used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for
cooking.
         Turf grass. Turf grass means any grass except grasses being grown for
food or agricultural purposes and ornamental grasses which are intentionally
and sporadically planted as part of a landscape design.
         Unlicensed vehicle. An unlicensed vehicle is any vehicle which does
not display a valid license plate or license applied for sticker.
         Yard. A yard is any area on a lot that does not contain a structure,
driveway, or permitted hard-surfaced parking area.
   25.   Section 301.2 - Responsibility. Insert the words “including the
interior of the structure” after the word “structures’ in the first sentence.
Insert the words “exclusively” after the word “they” in the third sentence.
   26.   Section 302.1 - Sanitation. Delete the second sentence and substitute
therefore:
      "No well, cistern, excavation or other depression shall exist in a
dangerous or unprotected condition."
   27.   Section 302.2 - Grading and Drainage. Add at the end of this section:
      No fill excavation dirt, or concrete chunks should be mounded above the
natural terrain. The Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson must be complied
with in regard to standing water.
   28.   Section 302.4 - Weeds. Delete the language of this Section and
substitute therefore the following: Section 302.4 - Vegetation.
         i.   All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from
noxious weeds or turf grass, which exceed 8 inches in height.
         ii.   All areas not containing a structure, paved pathway, driveway,
or permitted hard surfaced parking area must be covered with vegetation such as
grass, shrubs, trees or gardens. Where the vegetation has died, the area must
be re-planted.
         iii.   All dead trees, tree limbs and shrubs shall be removed.
         iv.   All bushes and trees must be trimmed to allow for free passage
along sidewalks and streets, and to allow for adequate line of sight for
vehicular and pedestrian traffic along streets and sidewalks.
         v.   Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to
cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice violation, the Village of
Hudson shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and cut and
destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall be paid
by the owner or agent responsible for the property and such costs may become a
lien on the property.
   29.   Section 302.7 - Accessory Structures. 
      Add the word "sheds" after the word garages.
   30.   Section 302.9 - Defacement of Property. 
      Delete this Section.
   31.   Section 304.1.1 - Add at the end: The foregoing list shall not be
considered an exhaustive list of unsafe conditions, but shall be considered as
examples of unsafe conditions. Any condition which causes a structure to be
unsafe so as to create a danger to the occupants or the public may be declared
an unsafe condition requiring repair, removal, replacement, or closure.
   32.   Section 304.2 - Add the following language at the end of this Section:
      All exterior surfaces including windows and doors shall be maintained in
good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling paint, cracked or loose plaster,
decayed wood, and other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
Exterior painted surfaces of dwelling and child and day care facilities,
including fences and accessory structures, which contain lead levels equal to
or greater than 1.0 milligram per square centimeter or an excess of 0.50
percent lead by weight shall be maintained in a condition free from peeling,
chipping and flaking paint.
   33.   Section 304.5 - Foundation walls. Add the words "and water" after the
word "pests".
   34.   Section 304.7 - Roofs and Drainage. Delete the entire section and
substitute therefor the following:
      The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects that
admit rain. The roof shall not have curled or missing shingles or tiles. Only
approved roofing materials may be used for repairs. Roof drainage shall be
adequate to prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion
of the structure, and the exterior of the structure. Roof drains, gutters and
downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free from obstructions. Roof
water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a private or public
nuisance or the accumulation of standing water, either on the property or other
property. Gutters and downspouts shall be required on all buildings originally
designed to have gutters and downspouts.
   35.   Section 304.13 - Window, Skylight and Door Frames. Add the following:
      Boarding Up. No window, door or other opening shall be boarded up or
otherwise secured by any means other than conventional methods used in the
design of the building or otherwise permitted for new construction of similar
type for a period in excess of thirty (30) days unless authorized pursuant to a
vacant building plan.
   36.   Section 304.14 - Insect Screens. Insert the dates "April 15" and
"October 15" as the beginning and ending dates for the requirement of insect
screens.
   37.   Section 305.1.1 -Add at the end: The foregoing list shall not be
considered an exhaustive list of unsafe conditions, but shall be considered as
examples of unsafe conditions. Any condition which causes a structure to be
unsafe so as to create a danger to the occupants or the public may be declared
an unsafe condition requiring repair, removal, replacement, or closure.
   38.   Section 305.3 - Interior Surfaces. Delete this section and substitute
in lieu therefore the following:
      Section 305.3 - Interior Surfaces. All interior surfaces including
windows and doors shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition.
Peeling paint, cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood, and other defective
surface conditions shall be corrected. Interior painted surfaces of dwelling
and child and day care facilities, which contain lead levels equal to or
greater than 1.0 milligram per square centimeter or an excess of 0.50 percent
lead by weight shall be maintained in a condition free from peeling, chipping
and flaking paint. No interior surface shall have an excess accumulation of
mold or mildew. All worn, frayed or un-cleanable carpet or vinyl shall be
replaced.
   39.   Section 307.1 - Handrails and Guardrails. Delete the number 30
wherever it appears in this Section and substitute therefore the number 36.
   40.   Section 308.1.1 - Outdoor Storage of Indoor Upholstered Furniture. Add
the following:
      Section 308.1.1 - Outdoor Storage of Indoor Upholstered Furniture. No
person shall place, use, keep, store or maintain outdoors any indoor
upholstered furniture not manufactured for outdoor use, including, but not
limited to, upholstered chairs and couches, except when said indoor upholstered
furniture is placed at the curb on the customary collection day for it to be
removed as part of bulky waste removal or when said indoor upholstered
furniture is placed outdoors as part of a garage sale. No real property owner
or real property manager or other person in control of such real property shall
permit indoor upholstered furniture to remain on such real property after it
has been placed there in violation of this Section. As used herein indoor
upholstered furniture means any furniture constructed with stuffing or cushions
or springs, not intended for outdoor use. As used herein outdoors means any
place visible from a public place and exposed to precipitation, including but
not limited to yards, rooftops, and unenclosed porches, decks, patios, and
balconies. As used herein “unenclosed” means an area not totally surrounded
with a combination of walls, windows, doors, floor and roof
   41.   Section 308.2.1 - Rubbish Storage Facilities.
      Add the phrase “of adequate size and number” before the word “and”.
   42.   Section 308.3.1 - Garbage Facilities. Delete this Section and
substitute therefore:
      The owner of every dwelling unit shall supply approved leak-proof,
covered outside garbage containers of sufficient size to accommodate all
garbage generated by the dwelling unit(s).
   43.   Section 309.2 - Owner. Delete the phrase “within the structure prior
to renting or leasing the structure.”
   44.   Section 309.3 - Single Occupant. Delete this Section.
   45.   Section 309.4 - Multiple Occupancy. Delete this Section.
   46.   Section 309.5 - Occupant. Delete this Section.
   47.   Section 401.1 - Add the following to the end of this Section:
      Nothing in this Code shall abridge the requirements of the Mechanical
Code of the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson, as amended. In places
where this Code and the Mechanical Code conflict, the stricter restriction
shall control.
   48.   Section 402.1 Habitable Spaces - Add the following to the end of this
Section:
         i.   Bedrooms which are below grade which existed prior to the
adoption of this Code shall cease their use as bedrooms effective August 1,
2005, unless those rooms can meet the following standards:
         1.   Stair and hallway geometry. All stairs leading to such bedrooms
must have a riser height of no more than 8.25 inches, a tread depth of no less
than 9 inches, a tread width of no less than 32 inches and a headroom clearance
of no less than 76 inches. Hallways and doors serving bedrooms must be at least
32 inches wide.
         2.   Ceiling height. The ceiling height in the bedroom and all
hallways and doors serving bedrooms shall be a minimum of 80 inches high.
Projections from the ceiling into the room, such as beams and ducts, may not
intrude so that the remaining height is below 76 inches. Projections into the
room may not constitute more than 25% of the overall ceiling area.
         3.   Egress windows and doors. Except as set forth in Subsection (1)
of this Section, egress must be provided as set forth in Section R310 and R311
of the applicable edition of the International Residential Code adopted by the
Village of Hudson.
         4.   Smoke alarms. Smoke alarms must be provided as set forth in the
International Residential Code adopted at SEC. 11.4-4 of the Municipal Code of
the Village of Hudson.
   49.   Section 403.3 - Cooking Facilities. Delete the second exception.
   50.   Section 404.1 - Privacy. Add at the end of this Section the following
language:
      No dwelling unit shall be constructed so that access to the street or
additional facilities such as laundry rooms or heating facilities requires a
person to pass through any other dwelling unit or commercial unit.
   51.   Section 404.5 - Overcrowding. Add the phrase at the end of the first
SEC. sentence “or as permitted by the Zoning Code of the Municipal Code of the
Village of Hudson, , as amended.”
   52.   Section 404.6 - Efficiency Unit. Delete the language “Nothing in this
Section shall prohibit an efficiency living unit from meeting the following
requirements:” and substitute therefore “All efficiency units must meet the
following requirements:”
   53.   Section 404.6(1) - Add the following sentence at the end of part (1):
      These required areas shall also be exclusive of any dining alcove in
excess of 125 square feet.
   54.   Section 404.7 - Food Preparation. 
      Add the following at the end of the Section:
      In dwelling units all kitchens shall include a refrigerator to be used
for the storage of food, a stove for the preparation of cooked foods and a sink
and faucet connected to both hot and cold water supplies. Any appliance
supplied by the owner shall be in good and safe working order and in a
condition in which they may be kept clean and sanitary. No more than one
kitchen per dwelling unit shall be permitted.
   55.   Section 501.1 - Add the following to the end of this Section:
      Nothing in this Code shall abridge the requirements of the Plumbing Code,
of the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson as amended. In places where this
Code and the Plumbing Code conflict, the stricter restriction shall control.
   56.   Section 502.5 - Public Toilet Facilities. Delete the word
“International.”
   57.   Section 503.4 - Floor Surface. Add at the end of this Section the
following:
      In dwelling units, the floor must be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition.
   58.   Section 504.3 - Delete Section 504.3.
   59.   Section 505.1 - General. Omit word “International.”
   60.   Section 507.1 - Storm Drainage.
      Delete the words “a public nuisance” and substitute therefor “a private
or public nuisance. The accumulation of standing water, either on the property
or other property, is prohibited. Gutters and downspouts shall be required and
shall be in good repair.”
   61.   Section 601.1 - General.
      Add the following to the end of this Section:
      Nothing in this Code shall abridge the requirements of the Mechanical or
the Electrical Code of the Village of Hudson. In places where this Code and the
Mechanical or Electrical Code conflict, the stricter restriction shall control.
   62.   Section 602.2 - Residential Occupancies.
      Delete the exception and the phrase “based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in Appendix D of the plumbing code” and
substitute therefore “when the outdoor temperature is minus ten degrees
Fahrenheit (-10 F). Portable heating equipment shall not be considered as
heating facilities”.
   63.   Section 602.3 - Heat Supply.
      Insert October 1 and May 1 for the starting and ending dates of the
heating season.
      Delete the exception and add the following at the end of the sentence:
“when the outdoor temperature is above minus ten degrees Fahrenheit (-10.F).
When the outdoor temperature is below minus ten degrees Fahrenheit (-10. F),
the heating system must be operating at full capacity”.
   64.   Section 602.4. 
      Insert October 1 and May 1 for the starting and ending dates of the
heating season.
   65.   Section 606 - Elevators, Escalators, and Dumbwaiters. Delete Section
606.
   66.   Section 701.1 - Add the following to the end of this Section:
      Nothing in this Code shall abridge the requirements of the Fire Code,
Chapter 6, Division 4 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson as
amended, or any other Code of the Village of Hudson. In places where this Code
and any other Code conflict, the stricter restriction shall control.
   67.   Section 702.1 - Omit the second sentence and substitute therefore the
following: No egress door shall be blocked by any chair, table, or other object
at any time.
   68.   Section 702.2 - Omit this Section and substitute therefore the
following:
      Arrangements of chairs or tables and chairs shall provide for ready
access by aisle accessways and aisles to each egress door. The clear width of
aisles shall not be blocked by chairs, tables or other objects.
   69.   Section 702.3 - Locked Doors. Add the following after the word “Code”:
“and is approved by the Code Official for security purposes.”
   70.   Add Section 702.5 - Arrangements as follows:
      Arrangements. Exits from dwelling units, rooming units, guest rooms, or
dormitory units shall not lead through other such units or through toilet rooms
or bathrooms.
   71.   Add Section 702.6 - Exit Signs as follows:
      Exit Signs. All means of egress shall be indicated with approved exit
signs as required by the Building Code. All exit signs shall be maintained
visible and illuminated at all times that the building is occupied.
   72.   Add Section 702.7 - Stairway Identifiable.
      Stairway identifiable. A sign shall be provided at each floor landing in
all interior stairways more than three stories above grade, designating the
floor level above the floor of exit discharge.
   73.   Add Section 702.8 - Emergency escape.
      Emergency escape. Every sleeping room located below the third story in
residential occupancies shall have at least one operable window or exterior
door approved for emergency egress or rescue, or shall have access to not less
than two approved independent exits, except for buildings equipped throughout
with an automatic fire suppression system.
   74.   Section 703.4 - Opening Protectives. Add the following sentence at the
end:
      Fire doors shall not be held open by door stops, wedges or other
unapproved hold-open devices.
   75.   Section 704.5 - Fire Department Connection. Delete this Section.
   76.   Section 704.6 - Single and Multiple Station Smoke Alarms. Delete this
Section and substitute therefor the following:
      Approved smoke alarms shall be installed and maintained in all structures
except sheds with no electrical service and which are generally not occupied by
persons.
   77.   Section 704.6.1 - Where Required. Delete this Section.
   78.   Section 704.4.1.1 - Group R-1. Delete this Section.
   79.   Section 704.6.1.2 - Group R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1. Delete the words
“Group R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1” and substitute therefor the words “all buildings”
and add the following at the end of this Section: “4. Hard-wired smoke alarms
or smoke detectors may not be replaced with battery operated smoke detectors or
smoke alarms.”
   80.   Section 704.3 - Fire extinguishers. Add as follows:
      Fire extinguishers shall be maintained in operating condition and shall
be visible with ready access thereto. Fire extinguishers shall display a
certificate of inspection a licensed Illinois Fire Equipment Distributor
bearing a date no more than one year old.
   81.   Add Section 704.4 - System Certification as follows:
      Every fire alarm, smoke alarm, smoke detector, fire detector and fire
suppression system shall be tested in the manner and frequency prescribed in
the Fire Code. Every fire suppression system and every fire alarm system, smoke
alarm, smoke detector and smoke detector system which is not able to be easily
tested by the Code Official must be tested by a licensed Illinois Fire
Equipment Distributor or a licensed Illinois Private Alarm Contractor as set
forth in the Fire Code, but in no event less than on an annual basis. Any
building owner or owner’s agent, shall produce a copy of the fire alarm, smoke
alarm and fire suppression system certificate with a date not more than one
year old upon demand by the Code Official.
   82.   Section 705.1 - Carbon Monoxide Detectors. Add as follows:
      Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with at least one approved carbon
monoxide alarm in an operating condition within 15 feet of every room used for
sleeping purposes.
   83.   Add Section 706 - Hazardous Materials as follows:
      Combustible, flammable, explosive or other hazardous materials such as
paints, volatile oils, and cleaning fluids or combustible trash such as
wastepaper, boxes and rags shall not be accumulated or stored unless such
storage complies with applicable requirements of the Fire Code.
H.   Adoption of the National Electrical Code, 2020 with Amendments. There is
hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the utilization of materials, construction, installation
and alteration of all electrical work placed in or utilized in connection with
any building or structure within the Village of Hudson, a certain electrical
code known as the National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection
Association, particularly the 2020 Edition thereof, with specific additions,
deletions, insertions, modifications and amendments as set forth in this
Chapter and referred to as the National Electrical Code. The provisions of said
Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length and
the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by
this Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all buildings and structures
within the corporate limits of the Village. Amendments to the National
Electrical Code, The National Electrical Code, 2020, is amended as follows:
(Amended 12/18/17 by Ord. No. 5723)
   1.   Article 230-91. Location of Overcurrent Protection. The service
overcurrent device shall be connected by no more than 8 feet of raceway or
service entrance cable from the meter device, in dwellings.
   2.   Article 240-54. Type “S” fuses and fuse holders for plug fuses are
mandatory, unless circuit breaker type panels are installed.
   3.   The use of #10 or smaller aluminum or copper-clad aluminum building
wire shall be prohibited.
   4.   Add at the end of the National Electrical Code - Section 1A - Local
Administration.
      Section 1A.1 - Application. Nothing in this Local Administration Portion
is intended to modify the obligations of persons performing electrical work in
the Village of Hudson as required by the National Electrical Code. Rather, this
Section is intended to provide the means of obtaining compliance with the
National Electrical Code.
      Section 1A.2 - Position of Electrical Inspector.
         i.   Establishment - There has heretofore been created and is hereby
continued the Village of Hudson employment position of Electrical Inspector
(occasionally referred to in this Chapter as "Inspector").
         ii.   Supervision - The Electrical Inspector shall be hired by the
Mayor, shall be under the supervision of the Building Commissioner and shall be
subject to the provisions of the Village's Personnel Code.
         iii.   Qualifications - The Electrical Inspector shall be
knowledgeable about electricity and the installation and alteration of
electrical equipment and appurtenances and well versed in the rules,
regulations, and requirements of the National Electrical Code to perform the
duties of the Electrical Inspector.
         iv.   Duties - The Electrical Inspector shall have the following
duties, functions and responsibilities:
         1.   To interpret and apply this Chapter;
         2.   To issue all electrical permits hereunder;
         3.   To inspect or cause the inspection of all construction,
installation, maintenance and alteration of electrical appliances, apparatus,
systems of electrical wiring, systems of poles for the carriage of such
electrical wiring, electric or illuminated signs or billboards and the
electrical wiring of all buildings or structures to see that such work is in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter;
         4.   To perform the duties, functions and responsibilities specified
in the current Job Description of the Village of Hudson employment position
assigned by the Mayor
      Section 1A.10 - Permits Required. Except as specifically otherwise
provided in this Chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to do or perform any installation, alteration, maintenance or
repair of any electrical conductors, equipment or other material regulated or
within the scope of the National Electrical Code, as adopted and modified
hereby, without first obtaining a permit in the manner provided by this
Chapter. EXCEPTIONS:
         a.   Persons, firms, or corporations holding Maintenance Electrical
Licenses may maintain or repair conductors or equipment of their employer
without a permit, provided that such licensee call for inspections as provided
in this Chapter.
         b.   Public service agencies installing, altering or repairing
electrical equipment for the operation of communication and signals. This
exemption applies only to equipment and conductors owned by the serving agency
which are exterior to any premises or dwelling unit.
         c.   Power companies performing the installation, alteration or repair
of electrical equipment of power or public service companies for use in the
generation, transmission, distribution or metering of electricity, and other
such maintenance or construction as may be required to insure the safe and
adequate transmission of electricity to the premises being served by said
company.
         d.   Temporary testing systems. The installation of any temporary
system required for the testing or service of electrical equipment or
apparatus. Such system must be approved by the Electrical Inspector as being
safe for the location on which or in which it is to be used.
         e.   Railway utilities. Installing equipment used by a railroad
utility in the exercise of its function as a public carrier and located
outdoors or in buildings used exclusively for that purpose.
         f.   Transmitting equipment. The installation, alteration,
modification or use of electrical equipment for radio and television
transmission, except the equipment and wiring for power supply therefore.
      Section 1A.11 - Permits: Application, Issuance, Transfer-Ability And
Expiration. Persons desiring an electrical permit shall make application
therefore to the Electrical Inspector on forms prescribed by him. Before
issuing any permit, the Electrical Inspector may require such detailed plans,
specifications and drawings as are necessary to describe the work, materials
and manner of installation, alteration or repair. The Electrical Inspector
shall issue a permit when such plans show that said electrical work will be
installed in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. After a permit has
been issued by the Electrical Inspector, no change or modification in the plans
or specifications shall be made unless such change has been submitted to the
Electrical Inspector and approved by him. No electrical permit shall be issued
to any person other than someone appropriately licensed under this Chapter
unless the permit is for a dwelling or accessory structure that the permittee
occupies as his residence.
      If electrical work is not commenced under a permit within six months
after the date of issuance, the permit shall be considered to have expired.
Electrical permits shall not be transferable and if after issuance, another
person, firm or corporation desires to complete the work initiated under a
permit, it shall be necessary to obtain a new electrical permit authorizing
such completion.
      Section 1A.12 - Fees. The fees for electrical permits and inspection of
work performed thereunder shall be as follows:
         a.   Fees as set forth in the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson,
shall be paid.
         b.   Doing Work Without a Permit - If any person initiates
construction, erection or alteration of electrical work in any structure
without first taking out a permit, such person shall pay, in addition to the
regular fees prescribed for permits, an additional amount equal to one hundred
percent (100%) of the fee required, and upon conviction, may be subject to all
penalty provisions of this Chapter.
      Section 1A.13 - Inspections.
         a.   Inspection Required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to conceal electrical conductors or equipment, energize an
electrical service or occupy or permit the occupancy of any building or
structure having wiring, equipment or components within the scope of regulation
provided by the National Electrical Code as adopted and modified hereby,
without in each case and in each stage of installation, calling for an
electrical inspection in the manner provided in this Chapter and obtaining
approval thereof by the Electrical Inspector.
         b.   Procedure. The Electrical Inspector shall be notified by the
person performing the electrical work when it or any portion of it is ready for
inspection, at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the requested inspection
time. All work shall be left uncovered and convenient for inspection until
inspected and approved.
         The Inspector shall endeavor to examine the work within one working
day after being notified that it is ready for inspection. All electrical work
when placed in position may be required to be tested by appropriate tests in
the presence of the Inspector and any and all defects corrected. Upon
satisfactory completion of the electrical work and approval by the Inspector,
the premises, installation or portion thereof obtaining approval shall be so
posted.
         c.   Inspection Upon Complaint. Upon complaint, in writing, of any
citizen of this Village as to the unsafe condition of any part of any such
electrical system within the Village, it shall be the duty of said Electrical
Inspector to inspect such part complained of, and if he finds that such
complaint is well grounded, or if he otherwise finds any defect, to require the
owner of the property on which the defective condition is located to put such
part in proper condition, and it shall then be the duty of such person, firm or
corporation to put such defective part in proper condition.
         d.   Condemnation of Electrical Work or Equipment. The Village
Electrical Inspector shall have the authority upon inspection or reinspection
to condemn any or all electrical work installed or being installed that may be
considered unsafe or hazardous to life and property. Upon condemnation of such
work, he shall serve a written notice upon the person owning, using or
installing the same to place the work in a secure and safe condition and in
compliance with the provisions herein contained.
         Upon condemnation of any electrical work, the Electrical Inspector is
authorized to refuse the connection or to order the disconnection of any
electrical supply lines until the condemned electrical work has been made safe
and is approved by the Electrical Inspector. Such order shall be in writing,
signed by the Electrical Inspector and served upon both utilities furnishing
services in the Village and upon the owner.
         It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to utilize
condemned electrical work or to reconnect an electrical supply to any condemned
electrical work from which the Electrical Inspector has refused to authorize a
connection or ordered a disconnection of electrical supply lines.
      Section 1A.14 - Violations, Penalties and Appeals.
         a.   Violations. In case of a violation of any provision of this Code,
the Electrical Inspector may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding
at law or in equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of
the structure. The Village may take action to abate any violation, and any
costs incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real
estate upon which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
         b.   Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying,
omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
investigation or enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any
of the Codes adopted and modified hereby, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than One hundred fifty ($150.00) Dollars nor
more than Seven Hundred Fifty ($750.00) Dollars for the first offense and not
less than Two hundred fifty ($250.00) Dollars nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty
($750.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in any 180 day period. A
separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon
which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such
violation to exist after notification or knowledge of the existence thereof.
I.   Adoption of the Illinois State Plumbing Code, 2014 with Amendments. There
is hereby adopted by the Village of Hudson for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for materials, construction, alteration and inspection of
all plumbing placed in or in connection with any building or structure, a
certain plumbing code known as the Illinois State Plumbing Code, particularly
the 2014 Edition thereof, with such amendments to said Code as are published
from time to time by the State of Illinois with specific additions, deletions,
insertions, modifications and amendments as set forth in this Chapter and
referred to as the “Illinois State Plumbing Code” or “Code.” The provisions of
said Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
and the provisions thereof as added, deleted, inserted, modified and amended by
this Chapter shall be controlling in regard to all buildings and structures
within the corporate limits of the Village. Amendments to the Illinois State
Plumbing Code, The Illinois State Plumbing Code, 2014, is amended as follows:
   1.   Section 890.120 - Definitions. Add to the existing definitions in its
appropriate alphabetical location, the following:
      Authorities Having Jurisdiction. Within its corporate limits, the Village
of Hudson shall be the “Authorities Having Jurisdiction” as that term is used
in this Code.
   2.   Section 890.120 - Definitions. Add to the existing language thereof,
the following:
      “Building Classification” as used in this Code shall refer to the
building classifications set forth in the Building Code of the Village of
Hudson, being Chapter 11 of the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson,
Illinois 1969, as amended.
   3.   Section 890.510 - Grease Interceptor Requirements. Amend Section
890.510 by adding to the existing language thereof the following:
      In all new construction and remodeling in which a grease interceptor is
required, only a grease interceptor with a capacity of no less than 1000
gallons placed outside of the building no closer than 5 feet from the wall of
the building shall be approved. If physical limitations prohibit installation
of a 1000 gallon grease interceptor, then the Plumbing Inspector may permit a
250 gallon interceptor if the Plumbing Inspector believes that there are
adequate safeguards in place to prevent grease from entering the sewer system.
Grease interceptors may only be placed inside a building in the event of a
remodel of a building for which there is no space available outside of the
building for a grease interceptor, or where the expected use of the property is
that of a restaurant that will not cook food, but serve only prepared foods
that will produce so little grease as to not require an exterior grease
interceptor as determined by the Plumbing Inspector. In the event that the use
of the property becomes such that an exterior grease interceptor is needed, the
Plumbing Inspector may order that an exterior grease interceptor be placed on
the property. All interior grease traps shall be Plumbing Drainage Institute
approved with a solid waste interceptor located before the grease trap.
   4.   Section 890.1200 - Water Service Sizing. Delete from Section 890.1200
the following:
      “Water service pipe and fittings shall be at least three-fourths (3/4)
inch diameter.”
      Add in place thereof the following:
      “Water service pipe and fittings shall be at least one (1) inch in
diameter.
      Except that existing water service pipe and fittings may be repaired or
replaced with pipe and fittings at least ¾ inch in diameter.”
   5.   Section 890.1910 - Inspections. Amend Section 890.1910 by adding to the
existing language the following:
      All drain, waste and vent piping in commercial, industrial or multiple
family buildings shall be tested with water while the Plumbing Inspector is
present.
   6.   Section 890 Appendix A - Plumbing Materials, Equipment, Use
Restrictions and Applicable Standards. Amend Table A - Approved Materials for
Water Service Pipe by adding the following at the end thereof:
      When polyethlene (PE) tubing is used as water service pipe, it must meet
ASTM D 2737 standards. Polyethlene (PE) pipe shall be installed only with
compression fittings with insert and clamp type fittings. All clamps shall be
of corrosion resistant material. The inside diameter (ID) of any insert fitting
shall not be less than the minimum allowable size for water service as required
by the Village of Hudson ordinances and State plumbing code. PE tubing water
service shall be one continuous pipe from the curb stop or pig tail to the
building water meter. Every plastic, polyethylene (PE) or other non-metallic
water service pipe shall have a solid 12 gauge blue sheathed coated, suited for
direct burial, tracer wire connected to the coupling or curb stop secured to
the service every 6 feet, unbroken, and accessible at the water meter.
   7.   Section 890 Appendix A - Plumbing Materials, Equipment, Use
Restrictions and Applicable Standards. Amend Table A - Approved Materials for
Water Distribution Pipe by adding at the end thereof:
      Every plastic, polyethlene (PE) or other non-metallic water distribution
pipe which is not inside a building shall have a solid 12 gauge blue sheathed
coated, suited for direct burial, tracer wire connected to the coupling or curb
stop secured to the service every 6 feet, and be unbroken for the length of the
pipe.
   8.   Add at the end of the State Plumbing Code, Section 1A - Local
Administration, Section 2A Cross Connection Program and Section 3A Water
Conservation:
      Section 1A - Local Administration.
      Section 1A.1 - Application. Nothing in this Local Administration Portion
is intended to modify the obligations of persons performing plumbing work in
the Village of Hudson as required by the State Plumbing Code. Rather, this
Section is intended to provide the means of obtaining compliance with the State
Plumbing Code.
      Section 1A.2 - Position of Plumbing Inspector.
         i.   Establishment. There has heretofore been created and is hereby
continued the Village of Hudson employment position of Plumbing Inspector
(occasionally referred to in this Chapter as "Inspector").
         ii.   Supervision. The Plumbing Inspector shall be hired by the Mayor,
shall be under the supervision of the Building Commissioner and shall be
subject to the provisions of the Village's Personnel Code.
         iii.   Qualifications. The Plumbing Inspector shall be certified as a
Plumbing Inspector by the State of Illinois.
         iv.   Duties. The Plumbing Inspector shall have the following duties,
functions and responsibilities:
         1.   To interpret and apply this Chapter;
         2.   To issue all plumbing permits hereunder;
         3.   To inspect or cause the inspection of all construction,
installation, maintenance and alteration of plumbing, drainage and ventilation
systems to see that such work is in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter;
         4.   To perform the duties, functions and responsibilities specified
in the current Job Description of the Village of Hudson employment position
"Plumbing Inspector", as assigned by the Mayor
      Section 1A.3 - State License Required. Except as specifically otherwise
provided in this Chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to do or perform any plumbing, as that term is defined in the
Illinois State Plumbing Code as adopted and modified hereby, within the
corporate limits of the Village of Hudson without being appropriately licensed
under the provisions of the Illinois Plumbing License Law. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, all materials attached to water supply mains, including water piping
up to the outlet valve of a backflow preventative device must be installed by a
licensed plumber. All fire hydrants and water pipes downstream of the backflow
prevention device used exclusively for fire protection, shall be installed by a
licensed plumber or a sprinkler fitter. EXCEPTION: The owner-occupant of a one-
family dwelling may, with the assistance of any member of his family,
personally carry on in such house any work governed by this Chapter without a
plumbing license, provided that such owner shall obtain a permit for any such
work, shall call for inspections as provided in this Chapter and the State
Plumbing Code as adopted and modified hereby, and shall install all plumbing to
meet or exceed the standards provided in this Chapter and in the manner
depicted on the approved plans, specifications and drawings, if any. Such
ownership and occupancy shall be retained for at least one year from the date
of final inspection and approval of such work.
      Section 1A.4 - Permits Required. Except as specifically otherwise
provided in this Chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to do or perform any "plumbing" as that term is defined in the
Illinois State Plumbing Code as adopted and modified hereby without first
obtaining a permit in the manner provided by Rule 14.4 of said Code, as so
adopted and modified.
         a.   Transferability. Plumbing permits shall not be transferable and
if after issuance, another person, firm or corporation desires to complete the
work initiated under a permit, it shall be necessary to obtain a new plumbing
permit authorizing such completion.
         b.   Expiration. If plumbing work is not commenced under a permit
within six months after the date of issuance, the permit shall be considered to
have expired.
      Section 1A.5 - Fees.
         a.   Charges. Fees for plumbing and irrigation permits and the
inspection of work performed thereunder shall be as set forth in the Village of
Hudson Municipal Code. For the purpose of calculating fees the word “opening”
shall mean to include all openings left for waste pipes, whether fixtures are
set or not, including, but not limited to, the following:
         1.   Bathtub - with or without shower
         2.   Water closets - floor and wall mount
         3.   Bidet
         4.   Shower - stall or compartment
         5.   Lavatory - bar sinks
         6.   Urinal - pedestal, wall type, floor and trough
         7.   Drinking fountains
         8.   Kitchen sink - including garbage disposal and dishwasher
         9.   Drain - floor, explosion proof, grease, oil, sand and all other
interceptors
         10.   Automatic washer standpipe and all "p" traps that catch indirect
waste
         11.   Dishwasher - restaurant or commercial
         12.   Any other plumbing fixture
         b.   Doing Work Without a Permit. If any person initiates
construction, erection or alteration of plumbing in any structure without first
taking out a permit, or installs an irrigation system, such person shall pay,
in addition to the regular fees prescribed for permits, an additional amount
equal to 100% of the fee required. Any such individual may be subject to the
penal provisions of this Chapter for violation of the Plumbing Code. No change
or modifications of plans or specifications shall be made after a permit has
been issued unless said changes have first been approved by the Plumbing
Inspector.
      Section 1A.6 - Inspections.
         a.   Inspection Required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to conceal or utilize any plumbing work, appurtenance, appliance,
fixture, system or portion thereof without at each appropriate stage in the
installation, alteration or repair, calling for a plumbing inspection in the
manner provided in Article XIV of the Illinois State Plumbing Code as adopted
and modified hereby.
         b.   Procedure. The Plumbing Inspector shall be notified by the person
performing the plumbing work when it or any portion of it is ready for
inspection at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the requested inspection
time. All work shall be left uncovered and convenient for inspection until
inspected and approved. The Inspector shall endeavor to examine the work within
one working day after notified that it is ready for inspection. All plumbing
work when placed in position may be required to be tested by appropriate tests
in the presence of the Inspector and any and all defects corrected. On
satisfactory completion of the plumbing work and approval by the Inspector, the
premises, installation or portion thereof obtaining approval shall be so
posted.
         c.   Inspection Upon Complaint. Upon complaint, in writing, of any
citizen of this Village alleging the existence of an unsafe condition in any
part of any such plumbing system within the Village, it shall be the duty of
such Plumbing Inspector to inspect such part complained of, and if he finds
that such complaint is well grounded, or if he otherwise finds any defect, to
require the owner of the property on which the defective condition is located
to put such part in proper condition, and it shall then be the duty of such
owner to put such defective part in proper condition.
         d.   Condemnation of Plumbing Work or Equipment: Right of Appeal. 
      The Village Plumbing Inspector shall have the authority upon inspection
or reinspection, either pursuant to permit, on complaint or on his own
initiative, to condemn any and all plumbing work installed or being installed
that may be done without permit; that may be done contrary to approved plans,
specifications and drawings; that may be done in violation of the State
Plumbing Code; or that may be done by any person, firm, association,
partnership or corporation not entitled to do plumbing within the Village of
Hudson; or that is in a condition which may be considered unsafe or hazardous
to life or property. Upon condemnation of such work, he shall serve a written
notice upon the person owning, using or installing the same, or the person,
firm or corporation owning the property on which such plumbing is located,
requiring such person to place the work in a secure and safe condition and one
which is in all respects in compliance with the provisions herein contained. It
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to utilize condemned
plumbing work.
      Section 1A.7 - Violations, Penalties and Appeals.
         a.   Violations. In case of a violation of any provision of this Code,
the Plumbing Inspector may cause to be instituted the appropriate proceeding at
law or in equity to obtain penalties or to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to require the removal or termination of an unlawful occupancy of
the structure. The Village may take action to abate any violation, and any
costs incurred in abating such violations may be charged against the real
estate upon which such abatement occurs and shall be a lien upon such property.
         b.   Penalties. Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying,
omitting, neglecting or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
investigation or enforcement of any of the provisions of this Chapter, or any
of the Codes adopted and modified hereby, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not less than One hundred fifty ($150.00) Dollars nor
more than Seven Hundred Fifty ($750.00) Dollars for the first offense and not
less than Two hundred fifty ($250.00) Dollars nor more than Seven Hundred Fifty
($750.00) Dollars for the second and each subsequent offense in any 180 day
period. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day
upon which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such
violation to exist after notification or knowledge of the existence thereof.
         c.   Appeals. All appeals of rulings or determinations of the Plumbing
Inspector shall be to the Village Board. However, no appeal shall be taken
after the Village has initiated legal or administrative proceedings seeking
fines for violation of this Code or compliance with this Code.
      Section 2A.1 - Cross Connection Control.
         a.   Purpose. The purpose of these Rules and Regulations is:
         1.   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could back flow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
         2.   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross
connections, actual or potential, between the public or customer’s potable
water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety.
         3.   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and customer’s potable water systems.
         4.   Nothing in these Rules and Regulations is intended to abrogate
any provision of the State Plumbing Code. Rather, these rules are intended to
obtain compliance with State Environmental Regulations. To the extent any
provision conflicts with the State Plumbing Code, the stricter regulation shall
apply.
         b.   Application. These Rules and Regulations shall apply to all
premises served by the public potable water supply system of the Village of
Hudson.
         c.   Owner’s Obligation. The owner of property shall be responsible
for protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to back
flow or back siphonage of contaminants through the customer’s water service
connection. If in the judgment of the Village of Hudson plumbing inspector or
his authorized representative, an approved back flow prevention device is
necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, Village of Hudson
plumbing inspector shall give notice to the owner to install such approved back
flow prevention device at each service connection where such device is needed.
The owner shall immediately install such approved device or devices at his own
expense. Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the owner to install such
device or devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water
service to the premises until such device or devices have been installed.
Failure, refusal or inability on the part of the owner to install such device
or devices immediately shall be unlawful and the Village is authorized to seek
immediate injunctive and equitable relief in Court as well as seeking fines and
penalties as provided in the Municipal Code of the Village of Hudson. The owner
shall retain records of installation, maintenance, testing and repair below for
a period of at least five years. All cross-connection inspections shall be
conducted by a Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector certified by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      Section 2A.2 - Definitions for Cross Control Regulations.
      Backflow. The term “backflow” shall mean water, wastes or other
contaminants entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
      Connection. The term “connection” shall mean any arrangement of piping or
appurtenances attached to a public water supply system.
      Cross Connection. The term “cross connection” shall mean a connection or
arrangement of piping or appurtenances through which a backflow could occur.
      Cross Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI). The term Cross
Connection Control Device Inspector shall mean any person certified by the
State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency to perform cross connection
device inspections.
      Owner. The term “owner” shall include the record titleholder of property,
a water customer served by the Village’s water system, and any person,
corporation, firm or other entity actually in control of property.
      Water system. The term “water system” shall have the following meaning:
         a.   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the customer’s water system.
         b.   The public water supply system shall consist of the source
facilities and the distribution system and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the Director of Public Works
up to the point where the customer’s water system begins.
         c.   The source shall include all components of the facilities
utilized in the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the
public water supply distribution system.
         d.   The public water supply distribution system shall include the
network of conduits or watermains used to deliver water from the source to the
owner’s water system.
         e.   The owner’s water system shall include all parts of the
facilities beyond the water service connection used to convey water from the
public water supply distribution system to points of use.
      Section 2A.3 - Cross Connection Prohibited.
         a.   Connections between the public water supply systems and other
systems or equipment containing water or other substances are prohibited except
when and where approved cross-connection control devices or methods are
installed, tested and maintained to insure proper operation on a continuing
basis. Fire protection systems and irrigation systems which contain installed
piping and are connected to the public water supply system are prohibited
except when and where approved back flow preventers are installed, tested and
maintained to insure proper operation on a continuing basis.
         b.(1)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
         (2)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a water supply.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any owner to have on his or her property
any connection in violation of this Section.
      Section 2A.4 - Survey and Investigations.
         a.   An owner’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved Cross-connection Control Device Inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the owner’s premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross- connection control devices within the
owner’s premises.
         b.   On request by the Village of Hudson plumbing inspector, or his
authorized representative, the owner shall furnish information regarding the
piping system or systems or water use within the owner’s premises. The premises
shall be open at all reasonable times to the Village of Hudson plumbing
inspector, or his authorized representative, for the verification of
information submitted by the inspection customer to the public water supply
custodian regarding cross-connection inspection results.
         c.   Every owner of non-residential property receiving water from the
public water supply shall cause his property to be surveyed by a Cross
Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI) for the water use practices on his
premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross connections
to his water system through which contaminants or pollutants could back flow
into his or the public potable water system. Every owner of residential
property receiving water from the public water supply which has a fire
suppression system or irrigation system connected to the public water supply
system shall cause the property to be surveyed by a Cross Connection Control
Device Inspector for the water use practices on his premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his water system
through which contaminants or pollutants could back flow into his or the public
potable water system. The survey must be done every other year and recorded
with the Village of Hudson on a form issued by the Village’s Plumbing
Inspector. All cross-connection control inspections must be conducted by a
Cross Connection Control Device Inspector in accordance with 225 ILCS 320/3.
         d.   It is the responsibility of the owner to prevent back flow into
the public water system by ensuring that:
         (1)   All cross connections are removed; or approved cross- connection
control devices are installed for control of back flow and back siphonage.
         (2)   Cross connection control devices shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
         (3)   Cross connection control devices shall be inspected at the time
of installation and at least annually by a person approved by the State of
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency as a Cross Connection Control Device
Inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical devices shall include physical
testing in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. A record of the
annual inspection shall be filed with the Village of Hudson Plumbing Inspector.
         (4)   Testing and Records.
            (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and
at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
            (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall
be available for inspection.
            (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of
most recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
            (d)   Every owner shall maintain for a period of five years, a
maintenance log for each cross-connection device which shall include:
            (i)   date of each test;
            (ii)   name and approval number of person performing the test;
            (iii)   test results;
            (iv)   repairs or servicing required;
            (v)   repairs and date completed; and
            (vi)   serving performed and dated completed.
      Section 2A.5 - Where Protection Is Required.
         a.   An approved back flow device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77
Ill. Adm. Code 890 and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency’s
regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 680. In addition, an approved back flow
prevention device shall be installed on each water service line to an owner’s
water system serving premises, where in the judgment of the Village of Hudson
plumbing inspector, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
system exist.
         b.   An approved back flow prevention device shall be installed on
each water service line to an owner’s water system serving premises where the
following conditions exist:
         (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Director of Public Works and
the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
         (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Director of Public Works or the Village of Hudson
Plumbing Inspector.
         (3)   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment
of the Village of Hudson plumbing inspector and/or the Cross-Connection Control
Device Inspector, are not correctable or which have intricate plumbing
arrangements which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist.
         (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
         (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
         c.   An approved back flow device shall be installed on all
connections to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77
Ill. Adm. Code 890 and the Agency’s regulations, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In
addition, an approved back flow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water system serving, when the potential of a high
hazard cross connection to the public water system exists as determined by The
Village of Hudson plumbing inspector.
         d.   All yard hydrants, wall hydrants, hose bibs and boiler drains
used to supply domestic water, shall have an integral, non-removable, backflow
device. Vacuum breakers that are not factory installed and can be removed are
not permissible.
         e.   All boilers shall have a Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow
Device (RPZ), an approved break tank, or approved air gap device located on the
water supply piping to the boiler. All other backflow devices are prohibited.
The back flow device shall be installed by a licensed plumber and certified
annually by a licensed Cross Connection Control Device Inspector.
      Section 2A.6 - Type of Protection Required.
         a.   The type of protection required under Section 2A.5 (B)(1), (2)
and (3) of these regulations shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists
as follows:
         (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
         (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle back flow prevention assembly shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that
could cause a system or health hazard.
         (3)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle back flow prevention assembly or a double check
valve assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
         b.   The type of protection required under these regulations shall be
an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle back flow prevention device.
         c.   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used
for a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle back flow preventers
shall be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply
when:
         (1)   the fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals; or,
         (2)   water is pumped into the system from another source; or,
         (3)   water flows by gravity from a non-potable source, water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or,
         (4)   there is a connection whereby another source can be introduced
into the fire safety system; or,
         (5)   a private water service supplying potable water to a fire
hydrant on private property.
      All fire protection systems which have a supply line greater than two
inches shall have a reduced pressure principle detector assembly (RFDA).
         d.   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water
supply shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service
lines and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
      Section 2A.7 - Back-Flow Prevention Devices.
         a.   All back-flow prevention devices or methods required by these
rules and regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross
Connection Control of the University of Southern California, American Water
Works
         Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, Canadian
Standards Foundation, or American National Standards Institute or certified by
the National Sanitation Foundation to be in compliance with applicable industry
specification.
         b.   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with
the manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer
of the device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
      Section 2A.8 - Inspection and Maintenance.
         a.   It shall be the duty of the owner at any premises on which back
flow prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
         (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or by-
passed air gap shall be made within 24 hours.
         (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at
time of installation and at least annually thereafter and required service
performed within five (5) days.
         (3)   Reduced pressure principle back flow prevention assemblies shall
be tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently
if recommended by the manufacturer and required service performed within five
(5) days.
         b.   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency as competent to service the
device. Proof of approval shall be in writing.
         c.   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
         d.   A maintenance log shall be maintained and include:
         (1)   date of each test or visual inspection;
         (2)   name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
         (3)   test results;
         (4)   repairs or servicing required;
         (5)   repairs and date completed; and
         (6)   servicing performed and date completed.
         e.   Whenever back flow prevention devices required by these
regulations are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at
the expense of the owner without delay as required by this Section.
         f.   Back flow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the Village of Hudson Plumbing Inspector.
      Section 2A.9 - Booster Pumps.
         a.   Where a booster pump has been installed on the water service line
to or within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure
cutoff device designed to shutoff the booster pump when the pressure in the
water service line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
         b.   It shall be the duty of the owner to maintain the low-pressure
cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the Village of Hudson
Plumbing Inspector, at least once a year, that the device is operable.
      Section 2A.10 - Violations.
         a.   The Director of Public Works of the Village of Hudson is
authorized and may discontinue, after reasonable notice to the owner thereof,
the water service to any property which fails to provide any survey, inspection
report, or fee required by this Division. The Director of Public Works, shall
deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the
water service to any premises wherein any back flow prevention device required
by these regulations is not installed, tested, maintained and repaired in a
manner acceptable to the Village of Hudson Plumbing Inspector, or if it is
found that the back flow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises, or if a low pressure
cutoff required by these regulations is not installed and maintained in working
order.
         b.   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
owner has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Village of Hudson
plumbing inspector, and the required reconnection fee is paid.
         c.   Neither the Village of Hudson, the Director of Public Works,
Village of Hudson plumbing inspector or its agents or assigns shall be liable
for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from termination of
said water supply in accordance with the terms of this ordinance, whether or
not said termination of the water supply was with or without notice.
         d.   An owner is responsible for back-siphoned material or
contamination through back flow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed. The owner
must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
         e.   Any person found to be violating any provision of this Ordinance
may be served with written notice stating the notice of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violation.
         f.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Ordinance
shall become liable to the Village of Hudson for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the Village of Hudson by reason of such violation, whether the
same was caused before or after notice.
         g.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Division
shall, in addition to any other penalties or equitable relief provided, be
subject to penalties as set forth in the Municipal Code of the Village of
Hudson.
(Ord. 1373, 10-3-2023)
8-1-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
8-1-3-1: PLAN SUBMITTAL:
To obtain a building permit, one complete set of building plans must be
submitted to the village building and zoning department office. This
requirement shall apply to any new construction, additions and structural
alterations. Below is a list of information necessary for plan approval:
   A.   Foundations plan, floor plans, elevations as requested, and wall
sections.
   B.   Foundation, wall and roof construction type.
   C.   All pertinent building dimensions.
   D.   Door and window sizes and locations.
   E.   Manufactured or engineered product specifications as requested.
   F.   The plan checklist shall be completed and reviewed with the building
and zoning department. The department will provide the checklist. (Document
dated 6-20-2005; amd. 2016 Code)
8-1-3-2: SITE PLAN INFORMATION:
A site plan must be submitted for every type of construction. Below is a list
of items that must be included on the site plan:
   A.   Lot number, subdivision and the common address.
   B.   All lot and building dimensions and all setback dimensions from
property lines.
   C.   All existing structures.
   D.   Lot drainage information.
   E.   All utility and/or drainage easements. (Document dated 6-20-2005; amd.
2016 Code)
8-1-3-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Fee For Beginning Work Prior To Permit Issuance;
Compliance With Building And Zoning Regulations:
      1.   No person shall construct, undertake, erect or place on his or her
property any of the following without first obtaining a permit from the village
for same, which carries a fee based on the fee structure in subsection C of
this section: new home, room addition, driveway, roof, fence, swimming pool,
garden shed, garage, basement finishing and remodeling, deck, and parking pad.
This list is not all inclusive. (Ord. 1173-A-05, 3-5-2013)
      2.   If work begins on any of these projects without a building permit,
the amount of the building permit shall be determined in accordance with the
provisions of Section 9-3-9(C) of this Code. If a permit is required and no
permit is purchased, that is a violation of this section, and a fine can be
levied for every day of noncompliance. If there are questions regarding whether
the job requires a permit, the village building and zoning office should be
contacted.
      3.   All improvements are subject to all current building codes and local
zoning ordinances.
   B.   Denial Of Permit: Permits will be denied for the following reasons:
      1.   Unpaid debt to the village, including any portion of the water/
garbage bill past due. Accounts in good standing are excluded.
      2.   Zoning/ordinance violations.
      3.   Liens for unpaid bills against the property.
      4.   Work not completed on current unexpired permit(s) unless the new
permit is needed to complete the work on the previously issued permit.
   C.   Fee Structure:
      1.   Updates: The following updates carry a fifty dollar ($50.00) permit
fee: fences, sheds, decks, pools, parking pads, roofs and driveways
(replacements and additional).
      2.   Application Of Fee Schedule; Fees Established:
         a.   The following fee schedule will be used to determine the fees to
be collected for: garages, room additions and basement finishing and
remodeling.
         b.   The fee for a permit shall be based on the reasonable cost of the
improvement, including materials and labor at a fair market value. Professional
materials list or contractor's bid will be required to receive a building
permit.
         c.   The following fee schedule is based on the estimated value of
improvements:
Valuation Fee
Valuation                   Fee
$0.00 - $1,000.00           $30.00
$1,000.01 - $3,000.00       $45.00
$3,000.01 - $10,000.00      $45.00 plus $6.00 per $1,000 or fraction thereof of
                            the estimated cost over $3,000.00
$10,000.01 - $.50,000.00    $90.00 plus $5.50 per $1,000 or fraction thereof of
                            the estimated cost over $10,000.00
$50,000.01 - $500,000.00    $310.00 plus $4.25 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
                            of the estimated cost over $50,000.00
$500,000.01 - $1,000,000.00 $2,222.50 plus $3.00 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
                            of the estimated cost over $500,000.00
$1,000,000.01 and up        $3,722.50 plus $2.00 per $1,000 or fraction thereof
                            of the estimated cost over $1,000,000.00
 
         d.   Additionally, the following fee schedule will be used to
determine permit fees to be collected for new commercial and residential
construction. This fee schedule was developed to more accurately reflect the
amount of work needed to inspect property for code compliance. Cost of work is
still required for reporting purposes but is not linked to the fees required
for the permit:
Fee amount per gsf (gross square foot).
 
Year         2020   2021  2022  2023  2024  2025  2026  2027  2028  2029  2030+
Finished
floor area,
inclusive of
finished
basement
area (when
basement
area is
finished
during
construction $0.68  $0.68 $0.70 $0.71 $0.72 $0.73 $0.74 $0.75 $0.76 $0.77 $0.78
of the
residence or
commercial
structure,
otherwise
the fee
reverts to
the table in
8-1-3-3(c)
(2)(c))
Unfinished
floor areas/ $0.2 3 $0.23 $0.25 $0.26 $0.27 $0.28 $0.29 $0.30 $0.31 $0.32 $0.33
basement
Attached
garages/     $0.12  $0.12 $0.13 $0.14 $0.15 $0.16 $0.17 $0.18 $0.19 $0.20 $0.21
carports
 
Minimum permit fee for all permits is twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Permit Conditions For Specific Structures:
      1.   Accessory Structures Generally: Prior to a permit being issued by
the village for an accessory structure, the resident must request approval from
the county health department. If the county health department approves this
request, then the village, upon the resident providing the approval
documentation, will issue a permit. If the county health department denies the
request, then the village, upon the resident providing the denial documentation
and the resident signing an accessory structure construction property owner
responsibility form accepting full responsibility for any failures to the
existing septic system, acknowledges that he or she may or may not have enough
area for a replacement septic system, and agrees to hold the village harmless
for any repercussions of the septic system failing and the inability to have
area on his or her lot for a replacement system.
      2.   Swimming Pools:
         a.   "Swimming pools", which term is defined as any structure intended
for swimming or recreation bathing that is capable of holding water with a
depth of twenty four inches (24") or more, including inground, aboveground, and
onground swimming pools, hot tubs, or spas, regardless of whether the use of
such swimming pool is intended to be permanent or temporary, require a permit.
This applies to the same pool setup in the same location year to year.
Otherwise, a new permit is required.
         b.   There is an application/checklist that residents are to complete
to request a permit for a swimming pool.
         c.   Prior to a permit being issued by the village, the resident must
request approval from the county health department. If the county health
department approves this request, then the village, upon the resident providing
the approval documentation, will issue a permit. If the county health
department denies the request, then the village, upon the resident providing
the denial documentation and the resident signing an accessory structure
construction property owner responsibility form accepting full responsibility
for any failures to the existing septic system, acknowledges that he or she may
or may not have enough area for a replacement septic system, and agrees to hold
the village harmless for any repercussions of the septic system failing and the
inability to have area on his or her lot for a replacement system.
   E.   Additional Permit Fees: The fee structure set forth in this Section is
intended to defray the actual expenses incurred by the Village of Hudson in
connection with the review, approval, and inspections processes necessary under
the terms of this Code. The Village of Hudson recognizes, however, that certain
building construction projects shall require the Village of Hudson to contract
with outside professionals to assist in the completion of reviews, approvals
and inspections required by this Code. In the event the Village of Hudson is
required to contract with consulting engineers, architects, or other outside
professionals in connection with any permit requested or issued hereunder, the
person requesting the permit or who has been awarded the permit shall owe to
the Village of Hudson in addition to all other fees provided hereunder a sum
equal to the difference between the actual permit fee charged and the actual
expense incurred by the Village of Hudson to retain outside professionals. The
aforesaid fees shall be due and owing within thirty (30) days of being invoiced
by the Village of Hudson. (Ord. 1173-A-05, 3-5-2013; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 1347,
9-1-2020)
8-1-3-4: REQUIRED BUILDING INSPECTIONS:
After permits are issued, building inspections are required to be performed by
the village building and zoning department. Call 309/726-1471 a minimum of
twenty four (24) hours before inspection is needed. Leave a phone number where
the permit holder can be reached by the inspector to set up an inspection
appointment. The permit holder is responsible for scheduling inspections.
Owners or their agents are required to be present during inspections of
occupied buildings. The required inspections are as follows: (Document dated 6-
20-2005; amd. 2016 Code)
   A.   Site: Prior to any type of excavation, a site inspection shall be
performed. At least three (3) of the property pins shall be exposed and clearly
marked for this inspection. All proposed structures must be clearly staked.
   B.   Footings: An inspection is required prior to pouring concrete for
footings. All footings shall be in place including trench and/or post footings.
(Document dated 6-20-2005)
   C.   Foundation: A foundation inspection will be performed prior to
backfilling of the structure. Footing tile, gravel and tar should be in place
for this inspection. If no one is present for this inspection, a communication
will be made by the village building and zoning department to the permit holder
providing approval. (Document dated 6-20-2005; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Framing: Before any type of interior finish is applied, a framing
inspection shall be performed. All electrical, plumbing and mechanical roughs
are to be complete prior to the framing inspection.
Insulation or drywall is prohibited until all four (4) inspections are
finished. (Document dated 6-20-2005)
8-1-3-5: OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Occupancy For New Construction: All new one-family dwellings,
commercial construction, accessory buildings and room additions or remodeling
on existing structures shall be totally complete before occupancy. Exceptions
shall be allowed by the village building and zoning department for lot grading,
seeding of yards, driveways, and sidewalks due to severe weather conditions or
time of year.
   B.   Temporary Occupancy: Temporary occupancy is granted only by consent of
the village building and zoning department. A temporary occupancy permit is
valid for thirty (30) days and may be extended by the village building and
zoning department. (Document dated 6-20-2005; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FLOOD CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Jurisdiction Of Village
8-2-3: Duties Of Zoning Enforcement Officer
8-2-4: Permit Requirements
8-2-5: Review Of Development Proposals
8-2-6: Water Supply System
8-2-7: Sanitary Sewage And Waste Disposal Systems
8-2-8: Penalty
8-2-9: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not limited to,
construction or reconstruction of buildings; installing manufactured homes or
travel trailers; installing utilities; construction of roads or bridges;
erection of levees, walls, or fences; and drilling, mining, filling, dredging,
and storage of materials.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland waves, or the unusual and rapid
accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source. See definition of Flood.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Means, for the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date hereof and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any
other entity, including state and local governments and agencies.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: The land in the floodplain within the village
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has
been completed in preparation for publication of the flood insurance rate map,
zone A usually is refined into zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30,
AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE, or V. For purposes of this chapter,
the term "special flood hazard area" is synonymous in meaning with the phrase
"area of special flood hazard".
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, means a walled and roofed
building, including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally
aboveground. The term includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers on
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT:
   A.   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   B.   For the purposes of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure regardless of the actual work
performed.
   C.   The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided, that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure. (Ord. 1182, 2-6-2001; amd. 2016 Code)
8-2-2: JURISDICTION OF VILLAGE:
The village shall not approve any development located in a special flood hazard
area (SFHA) outside the corporate limits unless such development or plat is in
the accordance with the following:
   A.   A floodplain ordinance legally adopted by the village that meets the
minimum federal (44 CFR 60.3), state and local requirements for development
within a special flood hazard area.
   B.   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated McLean County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed
into the village are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) dated February 9, 2001, prepared by the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA). (Ord. 1182, 2-6-2001)
8-2-3: DUTIES OF ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   A.   The village zoning enforcement officer, hereinafter referred to as the
responsible person, is appointed as the person responsible for receiving
applications and examining the plans and specifications for the proposed
construction or development. After reviewing the application, the responsible
person may require any additional measures which are necessary to meet the
minimum requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The responsible person shall review the proposed development to assure
that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies
from which approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404
of the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
(Ord. 1182, 2-6-2001)
8-2-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve,
move, or demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a separate
permit for each building or structure from the responsible person.
      2.   No manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate including,
but not limited to, buildings or other structures, fences, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations shall be commenced
until a separate permit has been obtained from the responsible person for each
change.
      3.   No manufactured home shall be placed on improved or unimproved real
estate without first obtaining a separate permit for each mobile home from the
responsible person.
   B.   Application For Permit: To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first
file a permit application on a form furnished for that purpose. The form must
be completed and submitted to the responsible person before the issuance of a
permit will be considered.
   C.   Review Of Application: The responsible person shall review all permit
applications to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably
safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all
new construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
manufactured homes) shall be:
      1.   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage;
      3.   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage; and
      4.   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding. (Ord. 1182, 2-6-2001)
8-2-5: REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT PROPOSALS:
The responsible person shall review subdivision proposals and other proposed
new development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe
from flooding. If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is
in a flood prone area, any such proposal shall be reviewed to assure that:
   A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area;
   B.   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and
water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
   C.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazard. (Ord.
1182, 2-6-2001)
8-2-6: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:
The responsible person shall require within flood prone areas new and
replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the systems. (Ord. 1182, 2-6-2001)
8-2-7: SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
The responsible person shall require within flood prone areas:
   A.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into floodwaters; and
   B.   On site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 1182, 2-6-2001)
8-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon proven violation thereof, be
fined as provided in subsection
1-4-1 A of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1182, 2-6-2001;
amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
8-2-9: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restriction. Where this chapter and other
ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 1182, 2-
6-2001)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Purpose And Intent
9-1-3: Interpretation
9-1-4: Separability
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited, and referred to as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF
THE VILLAGE OF HUDSON, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   This title is adopted for the promotion and protection of the public
health, safety, comfort, prosperity and general welfare of the residents of the
village. It is the intent of this title to:
      1.   Secure adequate light, air, and safety from fire and other dangers;
      2.   Conserve the value of land and buildings;
      3.   Maintain property values and a stable tax base;
      4.   Provide for orderly growth and development of the manmade
environment;
      5.   Protect land and structures from natural hazards including flooding
and erosion; and
      6.   Provide for the orderly and functional arrangements of land uses and
structures.
   B.   In order to accomplish the intent of this title, the village board
shall have the authority to:
      1.   Divide the entire village into districts, regulating the location
and use of buildings, structures, and land;
      2.   Avoid or lessen congestion on the public streets by requiring
adequate off street parking and loading facilities;
      3.   Establish building setback lines along highways, roads, streets,
alleys, or property lines;
      4.   Regulate the intensity of the use of lot areas and regulate open
spaces surrounding each building;
      5.   Permit in each of the zoning districts only those uses, buildings,
and structures that are compatible with the character of each district;
      6.   Provide controls governing the continuation of uses, buildings, and
structures which are incompatible with the character of the district in which
they are located;
      7.   Define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies; and
      8.   Prescribe penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
title. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements necessary for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and general welfare.
   B.   Where the provisions imposed by this title are more or less restrictive
than comparable conditions imposed by any other law, ordinance, resolution,
rule, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive
shall govern.
   C.   This title does not abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other
private agreement, and such private agreements do not abrogate any of the
provisions of this title.
   D.   No building, structure, or use which was not lawfully existing at the
effective date hereof shall be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption of
this title.
   E.   All buildings or structures erected hereafter, all uses of land,
buildings, or structures established hereafter, and all substantial
improvements of existing buildings or structures occurring hereafter shall be
subject to all regulations of this title which are applicable to the zoning
district in which such building, structure, or use of land shall be located.
Except in any residential district and the agriculture district, a single-
family detached dwelling may be erected on a lot of record existing on the
effective date hereof even though such lot does not conform with lot width and
lot area requirements for the district in which it is located; provided, that
there is compliance with all other regulations contained in this title. (Ord.
1150, 4-2-1996)
9-1-4: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the village board of trustees that
the several provisions of this title are separable in accordance with the
following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building,
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building, or structure not specifically
included in such judgment. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction, unless the context clearly
requires a different construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular;
   B.   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future tense includes the present;
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive;
   D.   Terms denoting a particular gender shall include each and every gender;
   E.   All words and terms not defined shall be construed in their general
accepted meanings;
   F.   In case there is a difference of meaning between the text of this title
and any caption or illustration, the text definition shall govern; and
   G.   The conjunction "and" indicates that all of the connected items shall
apply; "or" indicates the connected items may apply singly or in any
combination; "either/or" indicates that the connected items shall apply singly
but not in combination. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this title, shall be
construed as defined in this section:
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: A business which has a significant or
substantial portion of its merchandise that includes videos, tapes, books,
magazines, or other periodicals for rent or sale which are characterized by an
emphasis on depicting, describing or relating to the human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or female breast below the areola, or sexual activities; or a
business with a segment or section devoted to the sale, rental, or display of
such material; or a business or private club that features exotic dancers,
strippers, male or female impersonators, or which features films or other
depiction or description of anatomical areas of sexual activities for
observation by their patrons or members and invited guests.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for the growing of farm or garden crops,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, or pasturage as a principal use,
together with accessory animal and poultry husbandry, dairying, agriculture and
other common accessory uses including farm dwellings and other buildings and
structures used for agriculture purposes. The confined feeding of animals and/
or poultry shall not be considered as an agricultural use.
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords only secondary means of access to
abutting property.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation, or treatment of domestic animals.
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE: An area of land where one or more vehicles, not in running
condition, or parts thereof, are stored or any land, building, or structure
used for the dismantling or storing of such vehicles or parts thereof not in
running condition. This definition does not apply to automobiles stored in a
completely enclosed building which is accessory to a residence in a residential
district; provided, that the automobiles are owned by the resident of the
premises and are being repaired for the resident's personal use.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: Any building or portion thereof to which the
motoring public is invited for automobile refuelling from underground storage
tanks through fixed equipment and where any of the following services are also
offered to the motoring public: replacement, adjustment, or repair of lights,
tires, batteries, accessories or other minor parts; brake adjustments, engine
tuning, lubrication, washing and cleaning when performed wholly within a
building. Activities not permitted include vehicle sales, bodywork, painting,
welding, and storage of vehicles not in operating condition.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or any combination of streets and
parks, cemeteries, shorelines of waterways, corporate limit lines, railroad
rights of way, or other lines of demarcation.
BUILDING: Any structure which is built for the support, shelter, or enclosure
of persons, animals, or movable property of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building or structure, the use of which is
incidental and customary to that of the principal building. When an accessory
building is attached to a principal building, such accessory building shall
comply in all respects with the requirements applicable to the principal
building.
BUILDING AREA: The area bounded by the exterior dimensions of the outer walls
at the ground line.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the ground level to the highest
point of the roof structure. Chimneys, spires, towers, equipment, penthouses,
and similar projections shall not be used to calculate building height.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which the principal use of the lot is
conducted.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY OR MOVABLE: A building not designed to be permanently
located in the proposed location. Said building shall conform to all of the
bulk regulations contained in this title and shall not be located on any right
of way or easement.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and the location of same with respect to one another including:
   A.   Size and height of buildings;
   B.   Location of exterior walls in relation to lot lines, streets, or other
buildings;
   C.   All open space allocated to buildings; and
   D.   Amount of lot area and lot width provided for each use.
CAR WASH: A building or portion thereof containing facilities for washing
automobiles using automatic mechanized devices and/or equipment for the hand
washing of automobiles.
CARPORT: A roofed shelter for automobiles having at least two (2) open sides.
CLINIC: A building or portion thereof, the principal use of which is for
offices of physicians or dentists, or both.
CLOSED CONSTRUCTION: Any building, component, or assembly fabricated in such a
manner where all portions cannot be readily inspected at the installation site
without disassembly.
DAYCARE CENTER: An establishment where nine (9) or more children, twelve (12)
years of age and under are kept during the day or night.
DAYCARE HOME: An establishment where not more than eight (8) children are kept
during the day or night.
DISTRIBUTED GENERATION INSTALLER: A person who has completed all requirements
to be certified by the State of Illinois and the Illinois Commerce Commission
in order to install renewable energy appliances and equipment.
DISTRICT: A section or part of the village within which certain uniform
regulations and requirements apply under the provisions of this title.
DWELLING: A residential building or mobile home, or portion thereof, not
including hotels, motels, boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes, trailers,
or recreational vehicles.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing three (3) or more
dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A residential building containing two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: A group of rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling which
are arranged or used exclusively as living quarters for one family and shall
always include a complete kitchen which serves the entire family.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group
of not more than five (5) persons not so related, together with domestic
servants or nonpaying guests, maintaining a common household in a dwelling
unit. A family may include the occupants of a "foster family home" or a "group
home" as defined in this section.
FENCE: A structure, other than a building or a portion thereof, which is a
barrier and is used as a boundary, screen, separation, means of privacy,
protection or confinement and is constructed of wood, plastic, metal, wire
mesh, masonry or comparable material. Except in the agriculture district, a
fence may not be electrified or constructed of barbed wire or similar material.
In the industrial district, a fence may be constructed of barbed wire or
similar material but may not be electrified.
FLOOR AREA: The floor area of a building shall be the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the several floors of such building, measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls not
including floor area used for off street parking facilities, and basement floor
area that is used for maintenance and operation of the building.
FOSTER FAMILY HOME: A facility for childcare in residences of families who
receive no more than five (5) children unrelated to them, unless all the
children are of common parentage, for the purpose of providing family care and
training for the children on a full time basis; except, that the director of
the Illinois department of children and family services, pursuant to department
regulations, may waive the limit of five (5) children unrelated to the adoptive
family for good cause and only to facilitate an adoptive placement. The
family's own children, under eighteen (18) years of age, shall be included in
determining the maximum number of children served. The term "foster family
home" includes homes receiving children from any state operated institution for
childcare, or from any agency established by a municipality or other political
subdivision of the state of Illinois authorized to provide care for children
outside their own homes.
FRONTAGE, LOT: All of the property of a lot fronting on a street as measured
along the front property line between side lot lines.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
motor vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
accessory and in which no business, service, or industry is carried on;
provided, that not more than one-half (1/2) of the space may be rented for
storage of motor vehicles of persons not residing on the premises. Such a
garage may be used for the storage of not more than one commercial truck having
a load capacity of one and one-half (11/2) tons or more.
GARAGE, REPAIR: A building or an accessory building which is intended for or is
being used for repair and servicing of motor vehicles or other motorized
equipment.
GROUND MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A solar energy system that is directly
installed into the ground is not attached or affixed to an existing structure.
GROUP HOME: A childcare facility which provides care for not more than five (5)
children placed by and under the supervision of a licensed child welfare agency
with these homes being owned or rented, staffed, maintained and otherwise
operated by the agency. Group home also means a dwelling providing shelter to
more than five (5) unrelated persons with disabilities, as determined by this
title.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or profession customarily carried on by an
occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to
the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes.
HOTEL (MOTEL, MOTOR HOTEL): An establishment containing lodging rooms for
occupancy by transient guests; such establishment providing customary services
such as maid services, furnishing laundry or linens used in the rooms, and a
central desk with telephone and secretarial services.
INCOMPATIBLE USE: A use or service which is incapable of direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous or discordant.
JUNKYARD: An open area or fenced enclosure where used or secondhand materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled
including, but not limited to, scrap metal, paper, rags, tires, or bottles.
KENNEL: Any premises or portion thereof in which four (4) or more dogs and/or
cats over four (4) months of age are kept or cared for.
LOT: A parcel or tract of land located within a single block which is occupied
or intended to be occupied by one principal building, together with any
accessory buildings and such open space that may or may not be required by this
title.
LOT AREA: The computed area contained within the lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting two (2) or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in the alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°) or less.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except, that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the abutting street or
alley right of way line.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The boundary of a lot which is along a dedicated street or
public way. The owner of a corner lot may select either street lot line as the
front lot line.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is or is
approximately parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is less than
ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the rear lot
line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length within the lot
parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) public
streets which are more or less parallel, and which is not a corner lot. On a
through lot, both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The minimum horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured
at the buildable area.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A building assembly or system of building subassemblies
designed for habitation as a dwelling for one or more persons, including the
necessary electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating and other service systems,
which is of closed construction and which is made or assembled by a
manufacturer, off the building site, for installation, or assembly and
installation, on the building site, with a permanent foundation.
MOBILE HOME: A dwelling unit of vehicular or portable design built on a chassis
and designed to be moved from one site to another and to be used without a
permanent foundation.
MOTEL: See definition of Hotel (Motel, Motor Hotel).
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or lot on which freight brought by truck is
stored, sorted, or routed for intrastate or interstate shipment.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer, trailer, or
semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building, other than a single-family
dwelling, located in a residence district, or a structure which does not comply
with all of the regulations of this title governing bulk for the district in
which such building is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A lawfully established use of land or building which does
not comply with all of the regulations of this title governing use for the
district in which such use is located. For the purpose of this title, any use
lawfully established on the effective date hereof which is nonconforming solely
by virtue of lacking off street parking or loading facilities as required for
new uses shall not be deemed nonconforming.
NURSING HOME: An establishment for the care of children or the aged or infirm,
or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders. Such a home does not
contain facilities, other than for normal care and medical treatment of the
occupants, for surgical care, or the treatment of disease or injury, or
obstetrics, nor does it include the care of the mentally ill or substance abuse
patients.
OFF STREET LOADING: A space accessible from a street or alley in a building or
on a lot for the use of trucks while loading or unloading material.
OFF STREET PARKING: A suitably surfaced and maintained area of land of
sufficient size to store a standard motor vehicle, but in no instance less than
one hundred eighty (180) square feet in area, exclusive of passageways,
driveways, or other means of circulation or access.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land used for the purpose of buying or selling merchandise
stored or displayed out of doors prior to sale. Such merchandise includes, but
is not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, motorcycles, mobile homes, boats,
and trailers.
PERSONAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (PSES): Any device or combination of devices or
elements which rely upon direct sunlight as an energy source including but not
limited to any substance or device which collects sunlight for generating
electricity for use on-site. However, the energy output may be delivered to a
power grid to offset the cost of energy on-site.
PERSONAL SOLAR WATER SYSTEM: Solar water systems may be allowed as roof or wall
mounts as long as they are not on the side of the structure facing the street.
If it is a room mount, it cannot project above the ridge height or be visible
from the street facing side.
PUBLIC WAY: An easement or other right of way that is not an alley or street
which affords primary means of access to a lot.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle licensed to travel on the highway including:
   Camping Trailer: A canvas or metal folding structure mounted on wheels and
designed for recreational or vacation use.
   Motor Home: A temporary dwelling constructed as an integral part of a self-
propelled vehicle.
   Pickup Coach: A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for use
as a temporary dwelling.
   Travel Trailer: A vehicular structure built on a chassis designed to be used
as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, or vocational uses.
ROOMING HOUSE: Any building containing one or more rooming units in which space
is let by the owner or operator to more than five (5) persons.
SETBACK: A minimum horizontal distance between the setback line and the front
lot line.
SETBACK LINE: A line on a lot that extends for the full length of a lot line
adjoining a street and which is not nearer at any point to a lot line abutting
a street than the required depth of the yard. No building shall encroach into
the area between the setback line and the lot line adjoining a street.
SIGN: Any identification, description, illustration, or other device,
illuminated or nonilluminated, which is visible from any public place or is
located on private property and is exposed to the view of the public and which
directs attention to a product, service, activity, person, institution, or
business, including any permanently installed or situated merchandise; or any
emblem, painting, banner, pennant, placard, or temporary sign designed to
convey information, with the exception of window displays of merchandise.
Temporary signs are exempt from this definition, provided they are for the
purpose of displaying information pertaining to an event of public interest
such as fairs; provided, that such signs shall be removed no later than ten
(10) days following the event.
SIGN AREA: The total exterior surface, computed in square feet, on a sign
having but one exposed surface. On signs having two (2) or more exposed
surfaces, the area shall be the total of its component surfaces.
SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in the
form of heat or light by a solar collector.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES): The components and subsystems required to convert
solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area of the
system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which extends
to any fencing.
SOLAR FARM ENERGY SYSTEM (SFES): A commercial facility that converts sunlight
to electricity, whether by photovoltaics, concentrating solar thermal devices,
or various experimental technologies for on-site or off-site use with the
primary purpose of selling wholesale or retail generated electricity in excess
of one (1) acre.
SOLAR PANEL: A device for the direct conversion of solar energy into
electricity or heat.
SPECIAL USE: A specific use of land or building permitted herein subject to
special conditions and which, because of its unique characteristics, cannot be
properly classified as a permitted use.
STREET: A right of way which affords a primary means of access to abutting
property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls,
partitions, columns, beams, or girders; or any substantial change in the roof
or exterior walls.
STRUCTURE MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A solar energy system in which solar
panels are mounted on a structure.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
building, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market
value of the building, either before the improvement is started, or if the
building has been damaged, before the damage occurred.
USE: A purpose or activity for which the land or building is designed,
arranged, occupied, or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use which is clearly and customarily incidental
to the principal use of a building or premises and which is located on the same
lot as the principal building or use, except for such accessory parking
facilities as are specifically authorized to be located elsewhere.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms to all requirements and/or
regulations of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or building as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
VILLAGE: The village of Hudson, Illinois.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along a street; the full width of the lot between
side lot lines.
YARD, REAR: A yard located along and parallel to a rear lot line and extending
the full width of the lot between side lot lines.
YARD, SIDE: A yard which is adjacent to any side lot line extending between the
front yard line and the rear yard line.
ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: An official or officials appointed by the village
president, with approval of the village board of trustees, to administer and
enforce this title.
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002; 2016 Code; Ord. 1360, 4-
18-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Zoning Enforcement Officer
9-3-2: Zoning Board Of Appeals
9-3-3: Planning Commission
9-3-4: Variations
9-3-5: Amendment And Special Use Procedures
9-3-6: Special Use General Standards
9-3-7: Appeals
9-3-8: Fees
9-3-9: Building And Roofing Permits
9-3-10: Violation; Penalties
9-3-1: ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The village president, with the approval of the village board of trustees,
shall appoint a zoning enforcement officer who shall have the authority and
responsibility to carry out the following duties:
   A.   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating any of the
provisions of this title, indicating the nature of the violation and indicating
the action necessary to correct the violation. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
   B.   No building shall be erected, moved, or structurally altered, or no
land or building occupied until an approval is granted by the zoning
enforcement officer. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Issue all special use permits after they are approved by the village
board of trustees.
   D.   Conduct inspections of buildings and uses of land to determine
compliance with this title. The zoning enforcement officer may require that the
owner provide adequate proof of the location of property boundary lines.
   E.   Maintain current records pertaining to applications and final
disposition of map amendments, text amendments, plans, special uses,
variations, and appeals.
   F.   Provide information to the public concerning all matters pertaining to
this title.
   G.   Receive, file, and forward to the village clerk all applications for
appeals, special uses, variations, and amendments on which the zoning board of
appeals and/or the village board must act. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-3-2: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Appointment; Membership; Terms; Chair: The village president, with the
approval of the village board of trustees, shall appoint a zoning board of
appeals consisting of at least five (5) and no more than seven (7) members who
reside within the village. The terms of the members shall be: one member for
one year, one member for two (2) years, one member for three (3) years, one
member for four (4) years, one member for five (5) years, one member for six
(6) years, and one member for seven (7) years. The successor to each member
shall be appointed for a five (5) year term. A chairperson shall be named at
the time of appointment.
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The zoning board of appeals shall have the
following duties and responsibilities:
      1.   To conduct public hearings, make findings of fact, and make
recommendations to the village board of trustees regarding any administrative
order, decision, or determination made by the zoning enforcement officer.
      2.   To conduct public hearings, make findings of fact, and make
recommendations to the village board of trustees on applications for
variations.
      3.   To conduct all public hearings according to the following rules:
         a.   All meetings shall be open to the public and be held at the call
of the zoning board of appeals chair, zoning enforcement officer, or zoning
trustee at such time and place as the zoning board of appeals may determine.
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
         b.   All legal notices shall be published by the Village Clerk in a
manner prescribed by law, but in any case, notice of the public hearing shall
be given not less than fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days
before said hearing.
      4.   To adopt procedures governing the conduct of public hearings and
recordkeeping. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
   C.   Compensation: All members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall receive
payment for meetings attended in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
member, per meeting, with total compensation to all members combined, not to
exceed three thousand five hundred dollars ($3,500.00) per year. (Ord. 1317, 9-
4-2018)
9-3-3: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Created; Membership; Appointment; Residency: There is created a
Planning Commission for the Village. The Planning Commission shall consist of
five (5) members to be appointed by the President, with the advice and consent
of the Board of Trustees. All members shall reside within the Village or within
one and one-half (11/2) miles of the Village corporate limits.
   B.   Term Of Office: The term of office for each appointed member shall be
four (4) years. The term of office of each member shall end on April 30 of the
year in which the term of office expires.
   C.   Organization: Immediately following their appointment, the members of
the Planning Commission shall meet, organize, elect such officers as they may
deem necessary, and adopt and later change or alter rules and regulations of
the organization and procedure consistent with Village ordinances and State
Statutes. The commission shall keep written records of its proceedings which
shall be open at all times to public inspection. The commission shall also file
an annual report, when applicable, with the Board of Trustees setting forth its
transactions and recommendations.
   D.   Duties And Powers: The Planning Commission shall have the following
duties and powers:
      1.   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees a comprehensive
plan of public improvements looking to the present and future development and
growth of the Village. Such a plan, after its adoption by the Board of
Trustees, will be known as the "official plan of Hudson". Such plan shall
include reasonable requirements in reference to streets, alleys, and public
grounds within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside of and
distant not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits, and not
included in any municipality; such requirements to be effective whenever such
limits shall be subdivided after the adoption of such plan.
      2.   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees, from time to
time, such changes in the plan as may be deemed necessary by the Board of
Trustees or the Planning Commission.
      3.   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees, from time to
time, plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in pursuance of
such official plan.
      4.   To give aid to the officials of the Village charged with the
direction of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to
further the making of such improvements, and generally, to promote the
realization of the official plan.
      5.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities or the general purpose of public understanding.
      6.   To conduct public hearings, make findings of fact, and recommend to
the Village Board of Trustees the approval or disapproval of applications for
special use permits and amendments to the maps or text of this title.
      7.   To conduct all public hearings according to the following rules:
         a.   All meetings shall be open to the public and be held at a time
and place to be determined by the Chairperson.
         b.   All legal notices shall be published by the Village Clerk in a
manner prescribed by law, but in any case, notice of the public hearing shall
be given not less than fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days
before the hearing.
      8.   To adopt procedures governing the conduct of public hearings and
recordkeeping.
      9.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
subsection D as may be conferred by the Board of Trustees.
   E.   Expenditures: The commission may, at the discretion of the Board of
Trustees, employ necessary help whose salaries, wages and other necessary
expenses shall be provided from the public funds. If the planning commission
shall deem it advisable to secure technical advice or service, it may be done
upon authority from the board of trustees and appropriations by the board of
trustees therefor.
   F.   Compensation: All members of the planning commission shall receive
payment for meetings attended in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
member, per meeting, with total compensation to all members combined, not to
exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per year. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-
1996; amd. Ord. 1246, 1-5-2019; 2016 Code; Ord. 1301, 6-6-2017; Ord. 1330, 11-
5-2019)
9-3-4: VARIATIONS:
The zoning board of appeals may grant variations to the requirements contained
in this title; provided, that the variation is only granted when it would be in
harmony with the purpose and intent of this title and only where there would be
practical difficulties or hardships if the requirements were to be carried out.
Under no circumstances shall the zoning board of appeals grant a variation to
allow a use of land or building not permissible in the zoning district
involved.
   A.   Initiation: An application for a variation may be initiated by any
person or corporation requesting a certificate of zoning compliance.
   B.   Request For Variation: All requests for a variation shall be filed with
the zoning enforcement officer who shall submit a copy to the village clerk.
The village clerk shall publish a notice of the public hearing as required by
law. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
   C.   Hearing And Findings: No variation shall be granted until a public
hearing is held by the zoning board of appeals. A recommendation to the village
board of trustees for a variation from the standards of this title shall not be
granted by the village board of trustees unless the following findings are
made: (The burden of proof is the responsibility of the applicant.) (Ord. 1150,
4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   That special conditions exist which are peculiar to the land or
building in question and that these conditions are not generally applicable to
other property in the same zoning district;
      2.   That the literal interpretation of the requirements of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district;
      3.   That the special conditions do not result from the actions of the
applicant;
      4.   That granting the variation will not confer on the applicant special
privileges that are not available to other property owners in the same
district; and
      5.   That the granting of the variation will be in harmony with the
purpose and intent of this title and will not be injurious to neighboring
property or detrimental to the public welfare. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
   D.   Decisions: The zoning board of appeals shall make recommendations to
the village board of trustees on variations, and said board of trustees shall
make the final decision. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
9-3-5: AMENDMENT AND SPECIAL USE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Initiation: Amendments to the zoning district map or requests for a
special use may be proposed by the village board of trustees, owners of
property, or a party to a valid purchase option contract. Amendments to the
text of this title may only be proposed by the village board of trustees.
   B.   Application: All requests for zoning district map amendments or special
uses shall be filed on a form supplied by the village and must be submitted by
the petitioner to the zoning enforcement officer. The zoning enforcement
officer shall retain one copy and submit one copy to the village clerk.
   C.   Notice Of Public Hearing: The village clerk shall give proper notice of
the public hearing.
   D.   Recommendations By Planning Commission:
      1.   After a public hearing is held, the planning commission shall make a
recommendation of approval or denial to the village board of trustees. In
making their recommendation, the planning commission shall consider:
         a.   The suitability of the property for uses authorized in the
existing district;
         b.   The suitability of the property for uses authorized by the
proposed district;
         c.   The character and type of land use of nearby property;
         d.   The existing zoning of nearby property; and
         e.   The proposals and recommendations contained in the land use plan
for the village as adopted by the village board of trustees.
      2.   A recommendation for approval should not be made unless it is
determined that the change will be in the public interest and not solely for
the benefit of the applicant.
   E.   Decisions By Village Board Of Trustees:
      1.   The village board of trustees, upon receiving the report and
recommendation of the planning commission, as an exercise of the legislative
discretion vested in the corporate authority of the village, may grant or deny
the proposal.
      2.   If the proposal is not acted upon by the village board of trustees
within three (3) months of the date upon which the application is received by
the village board, it shall be deemed to have been denied unless extended by
agreement with the applicant. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
      3.   In case a written protest against any proposed amendment of the
regulations or districts signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty
percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of
twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley
therefrom, or by the owners of the twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the clerk
of the municipality, the amendment should not be passed, except by a favorable
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees of the village of Hudson then holding
office. In such case, a copy of the written protests shall be served by the
protestor or protestors on the applicant for the proposed amendments, and a
copy upon the applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail, at the address
of such applicant and attorney shown in the application for the proposed
amendment. (Ord. 1294, 2-7-2017)
      4.   No application for a district amendment which has been denied shall
be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of the denial, unless
there is clear evidence that conditions have materially changed since the
denial was made. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-3-6: SPECIAL USE GENERAL STANDARDS:
Standards applicable to all special uses include the following:
   A.   Ingress And Egress: Ingress and egress to property and proposed
structures shall be located and designed in a manner which will maximize
automotive and pedestrian safety and convenience, facilitate traffic flow and
control and provide easy and adequate access in case of fire or other
catastrophe.
   B.   Off Street Parking And Loading: Off street parking and loading areas,
where required or provided, shall be located and designed in a manner which
will maximize the items referred to in subsection A of this section and will
minimize any adverse economic, noise, glare or odor effects of the special use
on adjoining or nearby properties.
   C.   Refuse And Service Areas: Refuse and service areas, if provided, shall
be located and designed in a manner so as to accomplish the objectives
specified in subsections A and B of this section.
   D.   Utilities: Utilities provided in connection with the special use shall
be designed and located so as to encourage the efficient and economic
utilization, extension and expansion of the public utility system.
   E.   Screening And Buffering: Screening and buffering materials shall be
sufficient to ensure that the proposed special use will have no greater impact
on surrounding land uses than other uses authorized as a matter of right.
   F.   Signs And Exterior Lighting: Signs, if any, and proposed exterior
lighting shall be located and designed to maximize traffic safety and
compatibility and harmony with adjoining or nearby properties and so as to
minimize glare, noise and adverse economic impact on surrounding properties or
authorized land uses.
   G.   Yards And Open Spaces: Required yards and open spaces shall be
sufficient to ensure that the proposed special use will have no greater impact
on surrounding land uses than other uses authorized as a matter of right.
   H.   Site Design: The site on which the special use is located shall be
designed to make the proposed use generally compatible with adjoining or nearby
properties.
   I.   Compliance With District Provisions: The special use shall, in all
other respects, conform to the applicable regulations of the district in which
it is located. (Ord. 1281, 1-5-2016)
9-3-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority: The zoning board of appeals shall hear and decide appeals
from an order, requirement, or determination made by the zoning enforcement
officer.
   B.   Initiation: An appeal may be initiated by any person aggrieved by any
decision made by the zoning enforcement officer.
   C.   Filing: The appeal shall be filed with the zoning enforcement officer
who shall forward it to the village clerk for the publication of a public
hearing notice as required by law. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
   D.   Hearing And Decisions: The zoning board of appeals shall hold a public
hearing and shall make recommendations to the village board of trustees who
will make the final decision. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
9-3-8: FEES:
   A.   Customary Filing Fee: An application for a variation, amendment, or
special use shall be filed with the zoning enforcement officer and accompanied
by a fee payable to the village of Hudson, Illinois, in accordance with the
following schedule: (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
      1.   Variations: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      2.   Amendments: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Special uses: One hundred dollars ($100.00).
      4.   Appeals: One hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd.
2016 Code)
   B.   Additional Costs: Any person applying for a special use permit, zoning
variation, zoning map amendment, or zoning text amendment shall be responsible
to reimburse the village of Hudson any and all additional costs incurred by the
village of Hudson in processing such application pursuant to the procedures set
forth in the village zoning code.
As used herein additional costs incurred by the village include, but are not
limited to, costs for attendance of city officials at any special meeting,
publication costs incurred for publication of any required notice of a public
hearing, fees incurred by the village from third party consultants assisting
the village in processing such application and/or reviewing such application
for compliance with this code including, but not limited to, reasonable
engineering fees, reasonable attorney fees, reasonable court reporter fees and
any costs incurred by the village for security at any public meeting and costs
incurred in renting any facilities for the purpose of holding a public hearing
or public meeting.
All applicants for a special use permit, a zoning variation, a zoning map
amendment and zoning text amendment shall post with the village clerk in
addition to any customary filing fee required by this section an additional
amount of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to be applied toward any
additional costs incurred by the village in processing such application. The
zoning administrator has authority to waive the requirement of a two hundred
fifty dollar ($250.00) cash security when in the opinion of the zoning
administrator, the application is routine in nature and the village is not
expected to incur any additional charges as defined herein. Notwithstanding the
posting of a cash security, the applicant shall remain responsible to reimburse
the village for any and all additional costs incurred by the village as defined
herein. (Ord. 1280, 11-16-2015)
9-3-9: BUILDING AND ROOFING PERMITS:
   A.   Building Permit: All building permits will be limited to one (1) year.
Work must begin within ninety (90) days. A building permit issued by the
Village of Hudson shall expire ninety-one (91) days after issued, if work has
not commenced, or if work has commenced by the ninetieth (90th) day after the
permit is issued, then the permit shall expire one (1) year after issuance.
After the permit expires, there must be application for a new permit which will
include all construction completion deadlines. All fees associated with the
permit will be reassessed.
   B.   Roofing Permit: A permit for roofing work done by a roofing contractor,
as defined in the Illinois Roofing Industry Licensing Act, shall be issued by
the zoning enforcement officer upon establishing that the contractor doing the
work is duly and currently certified as a roofing contractor by the state of
Illinois.
   C.   Work Without Permit: No resident or contractor shall begin work without
a permit. In the event work begins without a permit, the individual or entity
who begins work, whether it be the resident or the contractor, shall be liable
to the Village of Hudson for the increased permit fee set forth below:
      1.   In the event the violation of this paragraph is the first violation,
the building permit fee shall be two (2) times the amount otherwise prescribed
under this Code.
      2.   In the event the violation of this paragraph is the second
violation, the building permit fee shall be ten (10) times the amount otherwise
prescribed under this Code.
      3.   In the event the violation of this paragraph is the third or
subsequent violation, the building permit fee shall be fifty (50) times the
amount otherwise prescribed under this Code. (Ord. 1150-A-03, 7-1-2003; amd.
Ord. 1150-A-03a, 3-3-2006; 2016 Code; Ord. 1347, 9-1-2020)
9-3-10: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates this title or who fails to comply with any of its
requirements shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and, in addition, shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the
case. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
1150, 4-2-1996; amd. Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Buildings Under Construction
9-4-2: Uses Permitted In All Districts
9-4-3: Special Uses
9-4-4: Height Limit Exemptions
9-4-5: Principal Buildings
9-4-6: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
9-4-7: Yards And Other Open Spaces
9-4-8: Permitted Obstructions In Required Yards
9-4-9: Home Occupations
9-4-10: Fences
9-4-11: Miscellaneous Regulations
9-4-12:    Solar Energy Systems
9-4-1: BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
When a building is under construction prior to the effective date hereof, said
building may be completed and it may be occupied by the use originally
intended. Such buildings and uses shall be subject to the provisions of this
title for nonconformities (chapter 12 of this title). (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-4-2: USES PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS:
The following uses are permitted in all districts:
   Educational, recreational, and institutional uses such as cemeteries,
churches, temples, synagogues, golf courses, parks, playgrounds, public schools
or private schools offering a balanced state of Illinois approved curriculum
equal to a public school.
   Public service uses such as electrical and telephone substations and
distribution centers, gas regulator stations, compressor stations, equipment
filtration plants, pumping stations, water reservoirs, stormwater detention or
retention basins, police and fire station exchanges, radio and television
transmitting or relay stations and antenna towers.
   Public utility uses such as poles, wires, cables, conduits, vaults,
laterals, pipes, mains, valves and natural gas regulating stations, sewage lift
stations, water wells and pump stations, railroad rights of way, and public
rights of way.
   Temporary buildings at construction sites.
   Other governmental uses and public utility service uses. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-
1996; amd. 2016 Code)
9-4-3: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   To provide for the location of special classes of uses which are deemed
desirable within a given district, but which are potentially incompatible with
the typical use permitted in said district, a classification of special uses is
hereby established. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
   B.   Uses enumerated in each district are allowable special uses in that
district. A special use permit shall be considered at a public hearing before
the planning commission, and its report of findings of fact and recommendations
shall be made to the village board. The village board may allow the special use
in the district indicated under the conditions stipulated and may impose such
additional conditions as it considers necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Where a building, structure, or use thereof lawfully exists on the
effective date hereof and such use is classified as an allowable special use in
the district in which it is located, such special use shall be considered a
lawful special use. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-4-4: HEIGHT LIMIT EXEMPTIONS:
The height limitations contained in this title do not apply to spires,
belfries, cupolas, antennas, water tanks, flagpoles, public monuments,
agriculture structures, chimneys, ventilators, or other appurtenances usually
required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
habitation. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-4-5: PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS:
   A.   There shall not be more than one principal building on any one lot in
any residential district.
   B.   Every principal building hereinafter erected shall be on a lot adjacent
to a public street and so located as to provide safe and convenient access for
servicing and fire protection. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-4-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
Where a lot is devoted to a permitted principal use, customary accessory uses
and structures are authorized except as prohibited specifically or by necessary
implication in this title or any other ordinance, code, rule, or regulation
applicable to the village. The following special rules are applicable to all
accessory uses and structures:
   A.   Accessory uses shall be compatible with the principal use and shall not
be established prior to the principal use.
   B.   An accessory building hereafter constructed, erected, placed, altered,
enlarged, or moved on a lot shall conform with the following requirements:
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. Ord., 11-7-2007)
      1.   Compliance Required:
         a.   All accessory buildings up to three hundred (300) square feet
shall comply with all zoning regulations. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. Ord., 11-
7-2007)
         b.   All temporary and movable buildings shall meet the current
approved building code and/or accessory structure codes and ordinances. (2016
Code)
      2.   Location:
         a.   No accessory building shall be permitted within the required
front yard or side yards of a lot as set forth in each district. (Ord. 1150, 4-
2-1996; amd. Ord., 11-7-2007)
         b.   No accessory building shall be permitted nearer than ten feet
(10') from the nearest wall of a principal building, nor shall it be located
nearer than five feet (5') from a side or rear lot line, nor shall it be
located closer than five feet (5') from any other accessory building; except,
that accessory buildings may be built within five feet (5') of the principal
structure if provided with a one hour fire barrier.
         c.   No accessory building or structure shall be located in any
easement or nearer than ten feet (10') to an alley right of way line when the
entrance to the accessory building for motor vehicles is from the alley. (Ord.
1150, 4-2-1996; amd. Ord., 11-7-2007; 2016 Code)
      3.   Color: All accessory buildings must match the color of the principal
building. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. Ord., 11-7-2007)
      4.   Height: No accessory building in a residence district shall exceed
the height of the principal building. Accessory buildings in other districts
may be constructed to a height equal to the permitted height of principal
buildings in the district. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
      5.   Gross Floor Area: The gross floor area of all accessory buildings
shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the rear yard of the lot. The gross
floor area of an accessory building constructed in a residence district shall
not exceed the ground floor area of the principal building located on the same
lot. In no instance shall the garage exceed seven hundred twenty (720) square
feet in size. No accessory building or structure in a residence district shall
exceed seven hundred (700) square feet in size. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016
Code)
      6.   Mobile Homes Or Similar Portable Units: No mobile home or similar
portable unit shall be used as an accessory structure except when used in
conjunction with the construction of a principal use or structure.
      7.   Attached Accessory Buildings: An accessory building which is
attached to a principal building shall be considered as part of the principal
building and shall be subject to all regulations governing the location of
principal buildings.
      8.   Number Per Lot: At no time shall there be more than two (2)
accessory buildings located on the same lot with a principal structure.
      9.   Home Occupations: A "home occupation", as defined in section
9-2-2 of this title, shall be permitted as an accessory use in all residence
districts. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
      10.   Antennas: Antennas shall be considered accessory structures in all
zoning districts. As such, the placement of antennas shall conform to the
following requirements:
         a.   Freestanding antennas shall not exceed fourteen feet (14') in
height unless certified as safe by a registered engineer or architect.
         b.   Antennas in a residential district may be located in the rear
yard or the side yard behind the front setback line and subject to all
requirements applicable to other accessory structures. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996;
amd. 2016 Code)
      11.   Garages:
         a.   Permit And Compliance Required: Garages require a building permit
and shall comply with all zoning regulations.
         b.   Site Plan: A site plan shall be submitted at the time of permit
application.
         c.   Number Of Spaces Limited: The total number of off street parking
spaces shall not exceed four (4).
         d.   Setbacks: The minimum setbacks from the side and rear property
lines shall be five feet (5').
         e.   Construction Specifications: Twelve inch (12") trench footing and
a minimum of three and one-half inches (31/2") of finished concrete floor is
required.
         f.   Driveways: All primary driveways must be hard surfaced to the
street. Driveways leading to accessory buildings are optional, but if
installed, must meet the requirements of the primary drive.
         g.   Color: All garages must match the color of the principal
building. (Ord., 11-7-2007)
      12.   Sheds: Sheds up to three hundred (300) square feet in size require
a permit, shall comply with all zoning regulations and shall not be located
closer than five feet (5') from another accessory building shed. (Ord. 1150-A-
03, 7-1-2003)
      13.   Metal Sheds And Garages Prohibited In Residential Districts: Metal
sheds and garages are prohibited in all residential districts. (Ord., 11-7-
2007)
9-4-7: YARDS AND OTHER OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Yards and other open space as required by this title shall be located
on the same lot as the principal building, structure, or use.
   B.   No legally required yards, other open space, or minimum lot area
allocated to any existing building, structure, or use shall be, by virtue of
change in ownership or for any other reason, used to satisfy yard or open space
or minimum lot area requirements for any other building, structure, or use.
   C.   No improved lot shall hereinafter be divided into two (2) or more lots,
and no part of an improved lot shall be sold unless all improved lots resulting
from such subdivision or sale shall conform with all bulk regulations
applicable in the district where the lot is located.
   D.   No yards allocated to an existing building, structure, or use shall be
subsequently reduced or further reduced below the minimum yard requirements of
this title applicable in the district where the building, structure, or use is
located.
   E.   Where a lot is zoned into a nonresidential district and said lot is
contiguous to or across an alley from a lot zoned in a residence district, the
required front, side, and rear yards required in said residence district shall
be provided on the contiguous nonresidential lot.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the outdoor storage of
business merchandise and/or equipment that is abutting any residential district
unless and until such person installs a solid opaque fence. Said fence shall be
at least six feet (6') high along the lot line abutting the residential
district. None of the aforementioned materials may be stored in the required
front yard. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-4-8: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN REQUIRED YARDS:
No obstruction shall be allowed in any yard required by this title. However,
the following shall not be considered to be obstructions when located in
required yards:
   A.   In all required yards:
      1.   Sills, belt cornices, and other architectural features extending no
more than eighteen inches (18") into a yard.
      2.   Awnings or canopies projecting into a required yard not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the required yard depth.
      3.   Steps, fire escapes, or ramps.
      4.   Chimneys projecting twenty four inches (24") or less into a required
yard.
      5.   Arbors and trees, flagpoles and air conditioner compressors.
      6.   Trees and shrubs.
   B.   In required front yards:
      1.   Bay windows projecting three feet (3') or less into the required
yard.
      2.   Open porches, terraces, or decks projecting not more than ten feet
(10') into the required yard.
      3.   Eaves and gutters projecting not more than four feet (4') into a
front or rear yard or not more than two feet (2') into a side yard.
      4.   Fuel pumps and air and water outlets when used in conjunction with
an automobile service station, provided they are set back at least ten feet
(10') from the front lot line.
   C.   In required rear yards:
      1.   Off street parking facilities.
      2.   Swimming pools, tennis courts, and other similar recreation
facilities.
      3.   Buildings, when permitted as accessory buildings.
      4.   Balconies, open porches, terraces, and decks.
      5.   Bay windows projecting three feet (3') or less into the required
yard.
      6.   Eaves and gutters; provided, that eaves and gutters on accessory
buildings are not closer than two feet (2') from a lot line.
      7.   Fences and walls not to exceed six feet (6') in height in
residential districts and eight feet (8') in height in all other districts.
Fences may be located adjacent to a property line, or if a fence is not located
adjacent to a property line, the fence must be located at least three feet (3')
from a property line.
   D.   In required side yards:
      1.   Off street parking facilities.
      2.   Eaves and gutters projecting two feet (2') or less.
      3.   Fences and walls not to exceed six feet (6') in height in
residential districts and eight feet (8') in height in all other districts.
Fences may be opaque. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-4-9: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   A home occupation shall be carried on within the principal building by
immediate family members currently residing on the premises, and no more than
one additional person who is not an immediate family member shall be employed
in such home occupation.
   B.   There shall be no exterior display, no exterior sign except for a
permitted nameplate when attached to a principal building in which such home
occupation is located, and no exterior storage or other variation from the
residential character of the principal building, and no offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare, or vehicle parking nuisance shall be
created.
   C.   A home occupation shall not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the ground floor area of the dwelling and not more than fifty percent (50%)
of the basement of such dwelling.
   D.   There shall be no commodities sold or services rendered by such home
occupation that require receipt and delivery of merchandise, goods, or
equipment by other than a passenger motor vehicle, small parcel delivery or
first class mail. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-4-10: FENCES:
   A.   Permit And Compliance Required: A permit is required and the fence must
comply with this title.
   B.   Finished Side Out: The finished side of any fence shall face outward
from the principal structure.
   C.   Height: Fences shall not exceed three feet six inches (3'6") in height
in front and corner side yards. The fence height on corner lots may be
determined on an individual basis. Corner lots are subject to "visibility
triangle" restrictions.
   D.   Construction With An Existing Adjacent Fence: Homeowners building a
fence adjacent to their property line give their neighbor implied consent to
connect a fence to the original fence. Property line disputes are civil and not
handled by village. (Ord. 1150-A-03, 7-1-2003)
   E.   Location Within Easements: Fences are not allowed in easements except
utility easements with the approval of the zoning enforcement officer. Property
owners shall bear the expense of removal if utility access is needed. (2016
Code)
9-4-11: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Occupancy For New Construction: All new one- and two-family dwellings,
commercial construction, accessory buildings and room additions or remodeling
on existing structures shall be totally complete before occupancy. Exceptions
shall be allowed by the village zoning enforcement officer for lot grading,
seeding of yards, driveways, and sidewalks due to severe weather conditions or
time of year.
   B.   Corner Lots: Corner lots will be considered as having one front yard
and one corner side yard. Both areas shall conform to front yard requirements.
   C.   House Numbers: All lots located in all zoning districts having a
structure located on said lot shall be identified by house numbers that will be
a minimum of four inches (4") in height and shall not exceed the requirements
set forth in sections 9-7A-6 and 9-7B-6 and subsection
9-11-1F of this title. All house numbers shall be visible from the street day
or night and with contrasting colors to the building. (Ord. 1150-A-03, 7-1-
2003; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   Decks: Open decks shall be constructed using piers or pier pads and
treated posts that are buried to or below the frost line. Enclosed decks that
are attached to a residence shall comply with all the requirements of new
construction. Pier pads are required for all open decks with roofs only.
   E.   Sump Pump Discharge Lines: All private sump pump discharge lines in all
zoning districts must discharge into a sump pump discharge drain if one is
available. If a sump pump discharge drain is not available, then the property
owner's sump line cannot be any closer than fifteen feet (15') from the front
or corner side lot line, two feet six inches (2'6") from the side property line
and ten feet (10') from the rear property line.
   F.   Downspouts: Discharge of downspouts shall comply with the same setbacks
from property lines as sump discharge lines in subsection E of this section.
   G.   Use Of Alleys: At no time shall any permanent structure, vehicle or
debris be in any alley. The village reserves the right to require the removal
of any structure, vehicle or debris from the alley by the owner of the property
at the owner's expense. If a property owner chooses to use an alley for any of
the permitted uses, property pins must be located by the property owner. Only
the one-half (1/2) of the alley that joins that owner's property can be used.
(Ord. 1150-A-03, 7-1-2003)
   H.   Maximum Number Of Nonrelated Occupants: In one- and two- family
dwellings, the maximum number of nonrelated occupants shall be five (5).
   I.   Parking Pads: Parking pads are required to be of either concrete or
asphalt. A parking pad shall not be located in front of the principal building.
The parking pad width shall be nine feet (9'), and the side yard setback shall
be three feet (3'). The depth of the pad shall be twenty feet (20') and return
to the driveway at the property line. (Ord. 1150-A-03, 7-1-2003; amd. 2016
Code)
   J.   Determination Of Finished Basement: "Basement framing" is defined as
any framing in a basement not meant to support the building and will constitute
finishing a basement. Mechanical rooms are excluded from this definition. (Ord.
1150-A-03a, 3-3-2006)
   K.   Egress Windows: Egress windows in new construction shall be installed
in all habitable space located below grade.
   L.   Open Burning: Burning of any type is prohibited on the surface of any
road and within four feet (4') of a road surface. Burning after sunset is not
allowed, but campfires are allowed with no permit. (Ord. 1150-A-03, 7-1-2003)
9-4-12: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Personal Solar Energy System (PSES):
      1.   The purpose of these regulations is to provide a uniform and
comprehensive set of standards for the installation and use of PSESs designed
for on-site home and small commercial use that are used primarily to reduce on-
site consumption of utility power. The intent of these regulations is to
protect the public health, safety, and community welfare without unduly
restricting the development of PSESs. The provisions of this ordinance shall
not be deemed to nullify any provisions of state or federal law.
      2.   Personal Solar Energy Systems shall be subject to the requirements
included in the Village Zoning Code unless otherwise stated herein:
         a.   All applicable laws, statutes, regulations and ordinances shall
be followed.
         b.   Use. The PSES shall provide electricity or heat for on-site use
by the owner. This does not prohibit an owner from making excess power
available for net metering.
         c.   Approved Solar Components. Electric solar system components must
have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing or approved equivalent.
         d.   Reflection. PSES systems must have reflective/anti-glare coating
that was part of manufacturing process
         e.   Utility Notification. All grid-integrated solar energy systems
shall comply with the interconnection requirements of the electric utility.
Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
         f.   Placement. No building of any structure will be allowed over a
utility or within a utility easement.
         g.   All PSES systems must follow manufacturers installation
instructions.
         h.   Framework for PSES shall not extend more than 6" beyond the width
of the installed solar panels.
         i.   Prior Existing PSES: Any nonconforming building, structure, or
use which exists lawfully at the effective date hereof may be continued in
accordance with the regulations of this chapter. (Title 9 Chapter 12, 9-12-4)
   B.   Ground Mounted PSES: Ground mounted PSES shall be subject to the
following requirements:
      1.   Ground Mount Personal Solar Energy Systems shall be considered an
accessory structure and require a permit. All requirements imposed by this Code
upon accessory structures shall apply to ground mount personal solar energy
systems to the extent those requirements do not conflict with the provisions of
this Section, except however the ground mount personal solar energy system
shall not be required to be of a color which matches the primary structure.
      2.   Height. Shall not be greater than twelve (12) feet at maximum tilt
of the solar panel(s) in any zoning district.
      3.   Setbacks. No PSES shall be permitted to be in the required front or
side yard.
      4.   Coverage. Ground mount systems shall not exceed seven hundred and
twenty (720) square feet of solar panel surface area.
      5.   Prohibited. There shall not be more than one PSES per lot.
      6.   Measurements: Measurements for setbacks are to be based on the
maximum vertical dimensions of the PSES. (Full horizontal tilt)
   C.   Roof Mounted PSES: Roof mounted PSES shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   Roof Mount Personal Solar Energy Systems shall be considered a
building Improvement and requires a permit.
      2.   Height.
         a.   Shall not project more than twelve (12) inches above the roof;
and
         b.   Shall not be greater than the allowable height of any structure
within the zoning district in which the PSES is to be installed, except that if
an existing roof is within twelve (12) inches of the maximum allowable height,
then the PSES may project no more than twelve (12) inches above the roof, even
if it exceeds the maximum allowable height.
      3.   In addition to building setbacks the mounting devises for roof
mounted systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building
on which the systems is mounted or built, unless the collector or mounting
system has been engineered to safely extend beyond the edge, and setback
requirements are not violated. Exterior piping for solar thermal systems shall
be allowed to extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard
exposure. .
      4.   Safety. Roof mount solar energy systems, excluding building
integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for firefighting
purposes to the south facing or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted.
Panels should allow for a minimum of a three (3) foot perimeter around panels.
      5.   Roof Coverage. Roof mount solar energy systems shall not occupy more
than eighty percent (80%) of the aggregate square footage of the roof area. The
roof shall be considered a part of a building completely covering and
permanently attached to such building and can be flat or pitched.
   D.   Approval and Building Permits: All requests for solar energy systems
will require a permit from the Village of Hudson.
   E.   Non-Conforming Systems: All solar energy systems shall be maintained
and kept in good working order. If it is determined that a solar energy system
is not being maintained, kept in good working order, or is no longer being
utilized to perform its intended use for six (6) consecutive months, the
property owner shall be given thirty (30) day notice for removal or repair of
the unit and all equipment. It shall be a unlawful for any person owning or
occupying any real estate located within the Village of Hudson to fail to
remove or repair a solar energy system within thirty days of receipt of the
notice for removal or repair.
   F.   Penalties: A failure to obtain applicable permit(s) for the
construction of a solar energy system or failure to comply with the
requirements of a permit or the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a
violation. The Village of Hudson may bring an action to enforce compliance of
the requirements of this section in accordance with the General Provisions set
forth in the Village Municipal Code.
(Ord. 1360, 4-18-2022)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-5-1: Districts Established
9-5-2: Zoning District Map
9-5-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
9-5-4: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
9-5-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to accomplish the purposes and intent of this title, the incorporated
portions of the village are hereby organized into the following districts:
 
A   Agriculture district
R-1 Low density residential district
R-2 Medium density residential district
C-1 Central commercial district
C-2 General commercial district
I   Industrial district
 
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-5-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
The location and boundaries of the districts established by this title are set
forth on the zoning district map which is incorporated herein and hereby made a
part of this title. Said map is on file with the village clerk and shall be
open to public inspection at all times when said office is open. (Ord. 1150, 4-
2-1996)
9-5-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various districts
as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   District boundary lines are either: (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
      1.   The centerlines of railroads, highways, streets, alleys or
waterways; or (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   Property lines of record or such lines extended unless otherwise
indicated.
   B.   Wherever a district is indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling
a street or highway and the boundaries are not located as set forth in
subsection A of this section, the depth of such strip shall be in accordance
with dimensions shown on the map measured at right angles from the centerline
of the street or highway.
   C.   Where a district boundary divides a lot in single ownership, the
regulations for either portion of the lot may, at the owner's discretion,
extend to the entire lot, but not more than forty feet (40') beyond the
boundary line of the district. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-5-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
Any addition to the corporate limits of the village shall be automatically
placed into the A agriculture district until otherwise classified by an
amendment to this title unless a different zoning district is established by an
annexation agreement between the village and the property owner. (Ord. 1150, 4-
2-1996)
CHAPTER 6
A AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-6-1: Description And Intent
9-6-2: Permitted Uses
9-6-3: Special Uses
9-6-4: Building Height
9-6-5: Lot Area, Lot Width And Yards
9-6-6: Signs
9-6-1: DESCRIPTION AND INTENT:
The agriculture district is composed of land being used for agricultural
activities located near the periphery of the incorporated area when said area
is not expected to develop for other uses within the near future. It is the
intent of this district to conserve the desirable characteristics of the land,
to prevent conflicts between agricultural and nonagricultural uses, and to
facilitate the orderly development of the village. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the A agriculture district:
   Accessory uses to agriculture.
   Agricultural uses.
   Conversion of farm dwellings to nonfarm dwellings; provided, that the lot
area shall be at least one acre with a lot width of at least one hundred fifty
feet (150') and required yards equal to the yards required in the R-1 low
density residential district.
   Home occupations.
   Temporary buildings for construction purposes. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-6-3: SPECIAL USES:
!!! None. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-6-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No structure shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-6-5: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND YARDS:
The following minimum requirements shall be observed:
   A.   Lot area: Seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet, exclusive of
road right of way.
   B.   Lot width: Sixty feet (60').
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25') in Old Town and thirty feet (30')
in Prairieview Subdivision from the property line.
      2.   Side yard: Six feet (6') from the property line.
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25') from the property line. (Ord.
1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
9-6-6: SIGNS:
Nonflashing, illuminated signs shall be permitted subject to the following:
   A.   Permitted Signs: Agricultural uses may have one sign per farm dwelling
which shall not be more than six (6) square feet in area, indicating the name
of the occupant and any specialized agricultural services. Such signs as
required for crop identification during the growing season are also permitted.
   B.   Projection: No sign shall project into the public right of way.
   C.   Height: No sign shall be more than fifteen feet (15') in height. (Ord.
1150, 4-2-1996)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Description And Intent
9-7A-2: Permitted Uses
9-7A-3: Special Uses
9-7A-4: Building Height
9-7A-5: Lot Area, Lot Width And Yards
9-7A-6: Signs
9-7A-1: DESCRIPTION AND INTENT:
The R-1 low density residential district is composed of land being used for
single-family residential purposes. It is the intent of this district to
provide for the suitable location of residential uses where the full range of
public utilities is not available and the bulk regulations are designed to
permit private sewerage disposal systems while protecting health, safety, and
general welfare. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7A-2: PERMITTED USES:
   Accessory uses.
   Agricultural uses.
   Home occupations.
   Single-family residential uses. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7A-3: SPECIAL USES:
   None. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7A-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No structure shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7A-5: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND YARDS:
   A.   Lot area: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   B.   Lot width: Seventy five feet (75').
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: Thirty feet (30').
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear yard: Forty feet (40'). (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7A-6: SIGNS:
Nonilluminated and illuminated nameplates shall be permitted subject to the
following:
   A.   Residential uses may have one sign per dwelling unit which shall be no
more than two (2) square feet in area.
   B.   Said sign shall only contain the name and address of the occupant of
the dwelling.
   C.   Said sign must be placed flush with the wall of a principal or
accessory building or structure. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
ARTICLE B. R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-7B-1: Description And Intent
9-7B-2: Permitted Uses
9-7B-3: Special Uses
9-7B-4: Building Height
9-7B-5: Lot Area, Lot Width And Yards
9-7B-6: Signs
9-7B-1: DESCRIPTION AND INTENT:
The R-2 medium density residential district is composed of land being used for
predominantly single-family residential purposes. It is the intent of this
district to provide for the suitable location for residential uses throughout
the community taking into consideration existing densities as well as providing
a density of housing that will be attractive to potential developers and
builders. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
   Accessory uses.
   Home occupations.
   Single-family residential uses. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7B-3: SPECIAL USES:
!!! Daycare homes.
Manufactured homes, as defined in section
9-2-2 of this title; provided, that a third party certification is supplied
stating that the manufactured housing has been inspected and is in compliance
with the building code adopted by the village. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016
Code)
9-7B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No structure shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet
(35') in height. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7B-5: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND YARDS:
   A.   Lot area: Seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet.
   B.   Lot width: Sixty feet (60').
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
      2.   Side yard: Six feet (6').
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-7B-6: SIGNS:
Nonilluminated and illuminated nameplates shall be permitted subject to the
following:
   A.   Residential uses may have one sign per dwelling unit which shall be no
more than two (2) square feet in area.
   B.   Said sign shall only contain the name and address of the occupant of
the dwelling.
   C.   Said sign must be placed flush with the wall of a principal or
accessory building or structure. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. C-1 CENTRAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8A-1: Description
9-8A-2: Permitted Uses
9-8A-3: Special Uses
9-8A-4: Building Height
9-8A-5: Lot Area, Lot Width And Yards
9-8A-6: Signs
9-8A-1: DESCRIPTION:
The C-1 central commercial district is composed of land to be used for a wide
variety of commercial establishments that should be located near the center of
the community and adjacent to major streets. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
   Accessory uses.
   Antique shops.
   Art schools, supply stores, and galleries.
   Banks and financial institutions.
   Barbershops and salons.
   Book and stationery stores.
   Candy and ice cream stores.
   Clinics.
   Drugstores.
   Dwelling unit, only when located above the first floor of a principal
building.
   Electrical and household appliance stores.
   Florist shops.
   Food stores.
   Furniture stores.
   Garden supply and seed stores.
   Hardware stores.
   Hobby shops.
   Jewelry stores.
   Liquor stores, package sales only.
   Medical and dental clinics.
   Offices, business and professional.
   Restaurants, including the sale of alcoholic beverages if incidental to the
principal use of serving food.
   Sporting goods stores.
   Taverns.
   Wearing apparel stores.
   Other uses similar in character to the uses listed above when approved in
writing by the zoning enforcement officer. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016
Code)
9-8A-3: SPECIAL USES:
   Parking lots for the storage of private passenger vehicles; provided, that
the construction conforms to applicable regulations set forth herein.
   Sanitary sewer and septic systems serving lawful adjacent commercial uses,
provided the sanitary sewer and septic systems comply with federal, state and
local laws. In considering a special use for sanitary sewer and septic systems,
reasonable conditions may be imposed to assure compliance with applicable law
and regulations set forth herein. As used herein, adjacent includes property
across an alley or street from the lawful commercial use. (Ord. 1281, 1-5-2016)
9-8A-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No structure shall exceed three (3) stories or forty feet (40') in height.
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-8A-5: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND YARDS:
   A.   Lot area: No minimum.
   B.   Lot width: Twenty feet (20').
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: No minimum.
      2.   Side yard: No minimum; however, if a side yard is provided, it shall
be at least five feet (5') in width.
      3.   Rear yard: No minimum. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-8A-6: SIGNS:
   A.   Signs on awnings shall be exempt from the limitations on the projection
of signs from the wall of any building; provided, that: (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
      1.   The sign shall contain only the name, address, and telephone number
of the business; and
      2.   The area of the sign shall not project beyond the limits of the
awning. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   All signs may only have constant illumination, and where a sign is
illuminated by light reflected upon it, direct rays of light shall not fall
upon any part of a residential building or public street.
   C.   The total surface area of all signs on a lot shall not exceed six (6)
times the linear feet of street frontage of such lot. On corner lots, each lot
line abutting a street shall be considered a separate street frontage. The
maximum area of any one sign shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet.
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
   D.   No sign shall be permitted to project more than six inches (6") into
the public right of way. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   No sign shall be located on the roof of a building, and if a sign is
attached to a wall of a building or if it is freestanding, it shall not project
higher than the point where the wall joins the roof of the building. (Ord.
1150, 4-2-1996)
ARTICLE B. C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-8B-1: Description
9-8B-2: Permitted Uses
9-8B-3: Special Uses
9-8B-4: Building Height
9-8B-5: Lot Area, Lot Width And Yards
9-8B-6: Signs
9-8B-1: DESCRIPTION:
The C-2 general commercial district is composed of land used for commercial
establishments that should be located on the periphery of the community with
direct or convenient access to major streets or highways. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
   All permitted uses that may be located in the C-1 central commercial
district.
   Amusement establishments including bowling alleys, skating rinks, and
similar uses.
   Animal hospitals.
   Automobile service stations.
   Building materials sales.
   Cartage and express facilities.
   Contractors and construction offices without outside storage.
   Convalescent, nursing and rest homes.
   Garages for the storage, repair, and servicing of motor vehicles.
   Hospitals, sanatoriums, or institutions for the care of persons.
   Hotels and motels.
   Kennels.
   Machinery sales.
   Motor vehicle sales.
   Parcel delivery stations.
   Parking lots for the storage of motor vehicles of not over one and one-half
(11/2) tons' capacity.
   Other uses similar in character to the uses listed above when approved in
writing by the zoning enforcement officer. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016
Code)
9-8B-3: SPECIAL USES:
Sanitary sewer and septic systems serving lawful adjacent commercial uses,
provided the sanitary sewer and septic systems comply with federal, state and
local laws. In considering a special use for sanitary sewer and septic systems,
reasonable conditions may be imposed to assure compliance with applicable law
and regulations set forth herein. As used herein, adjacent includes property
across an alley or street from the lawful commercial use. (Ord. 1281, 1-5-2016)
9-8B-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No structure shall exceed thirty five feet (35') or two and one-half (21/2)
stories in height. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-8B-5: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND YARDS:
   A.   Lot area: No minimum.
   B.   Lot width: One hundred feet (100').
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: Forty feet (40').
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-8B-6: SIGNS:
All sign regulations contained in section
9-8A-6 of this chapter apply to property contained in the C-2 general
commercial district; except, that the following regulations shall also apply:
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   A.   Only one sign which is affixed to a building, painted on a building or
is freestanding shall be permitted on any lot having seventy five feet (75') of
frontage or less on a public street.
   B.   On a lot having more than seventy five feet (75') of frontage, one
additional sign shall be permitted for each seventy five feet (75') of
additional frontage. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
   C.   No sign shall be permitted to project more than six inches (6") into
the public right of way. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   D.   A sign not attached to a building shall be located not less than ten
feet (10') from a lot line abutting a street, or five feet (5') from a rear or
side lot line.
   E.   A sign shall project not more than thirty feet (30') above the average
grade of the ground at the sign structure; except, that a sign located within
three thousand feet (3,000') of the center of an interstate highway interchange
may project up to seventy feet (70') above ground level.
   F.   Signs may be located within required yards; however, any sign located
nearer than fifty feet (50') to the intersection of two (2) streets, or any
sign located nearer than three feet (3') from a sidewalk, driveway, or parking
lot entrance or exit shall have the display surface not less than twelve feet
(12') above the highest grade of the adjacent street, walk, or driveway. (Ord.
1150, 4-2-1996)
CHAPTER 9
I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-9-1: Description
9-9-2: Permitted Uses
9-9-3: Special Uses
9-9-4: Building Height
9-9-5: Lot Area, Lot Width And Yards
9-9-6: Signs
9-9-7: Regulations Along Residence District Boundary Lines
9-9-1: DESCRIPTION:
The I industrial district is composed of land uses that are intended to provide
for the establishment of a full range of industrial activities and to govern
their operations in a manner that will not have a deleterious effect on
residential and business areas. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
   All permitted uses in the C-2 general commercial district.
   Automobile salvage.
   Bulk storage and distribution plants.
   Concrete products manufacturing.
   Contractor office, shop or yard including outside storage.
   Feed milling and processing.
   Fertilizer and feed sales and storage.
   Food products manufacturing.
   Grain storage elevators.
   Junkyards.
   Machine shops.
   Metal products manufacturing.
   Motor freight terminal.
   Printing establishments.
   Warehousing operations.
   Wood products manufacturing.
   Other uses of the same general character as those listed above. (Ord. 1150,
4-2-1996)
9-9-3: SPECIAL USES:
In accordance with the provisions contained herein, manufacturing uses other
than those listed in section
9-9-2 of this chapter which are free from any objectionable odors, fumes, dirt,
vibration, or noise detectable at the lot line may be permitted. (Ord. 1150, 4-
2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
9-9-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall exceed four (4) stories or forty five feet (45') in height.
Grain storage elevators are exempt from the height restrictions of this
section. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-9-5: LOT AREA, LOT WIDTH AND YARDS:
   A.   Lot area: No minimum.
   B.   Lot width: No minimum.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front yard: Sixty feet (60') from the center of the right of way or
thirty feet (30'), whichever is greater.
      2.   Rear yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Side yard: Ten feet (10'). (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-9-6: SIGNS:
Sign regulations in this district shall be the same as those enumerated in the
C-2 general commercial district. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-9-7: REGULATIONS ALONG RESIDENCE DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINES:
Within two hundred feet (200') of a residence district boundary line, all
operations for establishments engaged in production, processing, assembly,
disassembly, cleaning, servicing, testing, repairing, or storing of materials,
goods, or products, except accessory off street parking for vehicles in
operable condition, shall be within completely enclosed buildings. Outdoor
storage is permitted in rear yards only and then only if completely screened by
a solid wall or plantings at least eight feet (8') in height. Open storage
shall be not of greater height than that of the enclosing fence or plantings.
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
CHAPTER 10
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-10-1: Purpose; Compliance Required
9-10-2: General Parking And Loading Provisions
9-10-3: Off Street Parking Regulations
9-10-3-1: Required Parking Spaces
9-10-4: Off Street Loading Regulations
9-10-4-1: Required Loading Spaces
9-10-1: PURPOSE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The regulations of this chapter are established to increase safety on the
public streets and lessen congestion by regulating the location of parking on
private property. In connection with any building hereafter erected, altered,
or enlarged, or any parking lot hereafter installed, there shall be off street
parking and loading areas provided meeting all of the minimum requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-10-2: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary
establishment of off street parking and loading facilities; provided, that all
requirements of this title are met.
   B.   When any building or use is restored after being damaged by fire or
other cause to the extent that the cost of restoration exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of its value, there shall be provided the off street parking and loading
facilities required by this chapter.
   C.   Whenever the existing use of land or a building that was established
prior to the effective date hereof is changed to a new use, off street parking
or loading facilities to be provided shall be calculated by subtracting the
number of spaces required by the old use from the number of spaces required by
the new use. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-10-3: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Residential Districts:
      1.   Camping Or Recreational Equipment: Any owner of camping or
recreational equipment may park or store such equipment in any residence
district subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Such equipment shall not be occupied or used for dining,
sleeping, or housekeeping purposes; and
         b.   Such equipment shall be stored in an accessory building or on the
lot; provided, that the equipment shall not be stored or parked in the required
front yard. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
      2.   R-1 And R-2 Districts: In the R-1 and R-2 districts, no off street
parking shall be permitted in the front yard except on approved driveways of
one-family dwellings. Curb cuts for driveways leading to a structure with a
width designed for a one car garage may not exceed fourteen feet (14'); curb
cuts leading to a structure with a width designed for a two (2) car garage may
not exceed twenty two feet (22'); and curb cuts leading to a structure with a
width designed for a three (3) car garage may not exceed thirty two feet (32').
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Parking Lots:
      1.   All parking lots and all driveways leading to parking lots shall be
paved with an appropriate thickness of bituminous concrete, portland cement, or
other dust free material as approved by the zoning enforcement officer.
      2.   All parking lots shall be sloped so as to prevent surface water from
running onto adjoining property or public streets in unreasonable volumes.
   C.   Access; Space Dimensions: Each parking space shall have a direct access
to an aisle, driveway, or other public way of such width as to provide a safe
means of access and egress at all times. The dimensions of each parking space
shall be not less than nine feet by nineteen feet (9' x 19'). (Ord. 1150, 4-2-
1996)
9-10-3-1: REQUIRED PARKING SPACES:
The following are the minimum off street parking requirements for the land use
categories authorized by this title. These requirements shall not apply to uses
located in the C-1 central commercial district.
Type Of Use Parking Spaces Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Spaces Required
                                        1/4 of the maximum occupancy load or 1
Amusement and recreational uses         for every 200 square feet of floor
                                        area, whichever is greater
Care facilities                         1 for every 400 square feet of floor
                                        area
Eating and drinking establishments:
Drinking establishments                 1 for each 50 square feet of floor area
Eating establishments                   1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                        area
Educational services                    1 for every 400 square feet of floor
                                        area
Governmental uses                       1 for each 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
Office uses:
Less than 1,200 square feet of floor    1 for every 100 square feet of floor
area                                    area but not less than 5
Between 1,200 square feet of floor area 1 for every 200 square feet of floor
and 3,000 square feet of floor area     area but not less than 10
Over 3,000 square feet of floor area    1 for every 300 square feet of floor
                                        area but not less than 20
                                        1 for each 2 persons employed on the
Religious facilities                    premises, and 1 additional for each 6
                                        seats in the main auditorium
Residential uses:
One- and two-family dwellings,          2 for each dwelling unit
manufactured homes and mobile homes
Multiple-family dwellings               2 per dwelling unit
Rooming houses or other group quarters  1 for every 500 square feet of floor
                                        area
Storage uses                            1 for every 2,400 square feet of floor
                                        area
Stores                                  1 for every 250 square feet of floor
                                        area
All other commercial uses               1 for every 600 square feet of floor
                                        area
 
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996; amd. 2016 Code)
9-10-4: OFF STREET LOADING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Exemptions: The requirements of this section shall not apply to uses
located in the C-1 central commercial district.
   B.   Location: All off street loading facilities shall be located on the
same lot as the facility to be served and shall not be located within twenty
five feet (25') of the intersection of two (2) streets and shall not be located
in a required front or side yard.
   C.   Dimensions Of Space: A required loading space shall be at least ten
feet (10') in width by at least twenty five feet (25') in length and shall have
a vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
   D.   Access: Each loading space shall be served by an unobstructed vehicular
access to a public street or alley.
   E.   Construction Materials: Each loading space shall be constructed of
asphalt, concrete, or other dust free material. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-10-4-1: REQUIRED LOADING SPACES:
   A.   Residential uses: None.
   B.   Nonresidential uses:
 
Square Feet Of Floor Area                        Minimum Number Of Spaces
Less than 10,000                                 None
10,000 to 24,999                                 1
25,000 to 39,999                                 2
40,000 to 99,999                                 3
100,000 to 250,000                               4
Each additional 200,000 or fraction thereof over 1 additional
250,000
 
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
CHAPTER 11
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Permitted Signs
9-11-2: Prohibited Signs
9-11-3: Placement Of Signs
9-11-4: Removal And Disposal Of Signs
9-11-1: PERMITTED SIGNS:
The following signs are permitted in all districts, but any sign thus created
must be in conformance with all other building, structural and electrical laws
and regulations of the village. In any case, signs cannot exceed nine (9)
square feet unless otherwise stated below. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002; amd.
2016 Code)
   A.   Construction Signs: One construction sign per construction project not
exceeding nine (9) square feet in sign area in residential districts; provided,
that such signs shall be erected no more than thirty (30) days prior to the
beginning of construction for which a valid building permit has been issued.
The sign shall be confined to the site of construction and shall be removed
thirty (30) days after completion of construction and prior to occupancy.
   B.   Direction Or Instructional Signs: Signs which provide direction or
instruction and are located entirely on the property to which they pertain and
do not in any way advertise the sale of merchandise or services or any business
and do not exceed four (4) square feet in area, such as signs identifying
restrooms, public telephones, walkways, or signs providing direction such as
parking lot entrance and exit signs and those of similar nature. Such signs may
identify the establishment to which the directions or instructions thereon are
pertinent.
   C.   Flags: The flag, emblem or insignia of any nation or political
subdivision or corporate flag.
   D.   Governmental Signs: Governmental signs for control of traffic and other
regulatory purposes, street signs, danger signs, railroad crossing signs and
signs of public service companies indicating danger and aids to service safety
which are erected by or on the order of a public officer in the performance of
his public duty.
   E.   Holiday Decorations: Signs of a primarily decorative nature, clearly
incidental and customary and commonly associated with any national, local or
religious holiday; provided, that such signs shall be displayed for a period of
not more than sixty (60) consecutive days nor more than sixty (60) days in any
one year. Such signs may be of any type, number, area, height, illumination or
animation, and shall be set back ten feet (10') from any boundary lines of the
lot; provided, that a clear area be maintained to a height of seventy two
inches (72") within fifty five feet (55') of the intersection of two (2)
streets, a railroad and a street, or a street and driveway. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-
21-2002)
   F.   House Numbers: House numbers not exceeding two (2) square feet in area
for each dwelling unit. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
   G.   Memorial Signs: Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date
of erection when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part of the
building or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible material.
   H.   Notice Bulletin Boards: Notice bulletin boards not over thirty two (32)
square feet in area for medical, public, charitable or religious institutions
where the same are located on the premises of said institution.
   I.   No Trespassing Or No Dumping Signs: No trespassing or no dumping signs
not to exceed one and one-half (11/2) square feet in area per sign and not
exceeding four (4) in number per lot; except, that special permission may be
obtained from the zoning enforcement officer for additional signs under proven
special circumstances.
   J.   Occupant Signs, Nameplates: One nameplate for each dwelling unit or
mobile home not to exceed two (2) square feet in area indicating the name of
the occupant and location or identification of a home professional office,
provided the use of the premises is legal both in substance and at that
location.
   K.   Public Notices: Official notices posted by public officers or employees
in the performance of their duties.
   L.   Public Signs: Signs required or specifically authorized for a public
purpose by any law, statute or ordinance, which may be of any type, number,
area, height above grade, location, illumination, or animation required by law,
statute or ordinance under which the signs are erected.
   M.   Real Estate Signs: One real estate sign per residential lot, provided
such sign is located entirely within the property to which the sign applies, is
not directly illuminated, does not exceed nine (9) square feet in area, and is
removed within ten (10) days after the closing date of a sales contract or the
effective date of a lease.
   N.   Symbols Or Insignia: Religious symbols, commemorative plaques of
recognized historical agencies, or identification emblems of religious orders
or historical agencies; provided, that no such symbol, plaque or identification
emblem shall exceed four (4) square feet in area; and provided further, that
all such symbols, plaques and identification emblems shall be placed flat
against a building. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002)
   O.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs not exceeding four (4) square feet in
area pertaining to drives or events of civic, philanthropic, educational or
religious organizations; provided, that said signs are posted only during said
drive or no more than thirty (30) days before said event and are removed no
more than ten (10) days after an event. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002; amd. 2016
Code)
   P.   Warning Signs: Signs warning the public of the existence of danger, but
containing no advertising material, of a size as may be necessary to be removed
upon subsidence of danger.
   Q.   Neighborhood Identification Signs: In any district, a sign, masonry
wall, landscaping and other similar materials or features may be combined to
form a display for neighborhood or tract identification; provided, that the
legend of such sign or display shall consist only of the neighborhood or tract
name.
   R.   Miscellaneous Signs: Any sign that does not fall into any of the
categories in subsections A through Q of this section has to be approved by the
ordinance and zoning committee. (The zoning enforcement officer will determine
into which category the sign falls.) (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002)
   S.   Election Signs: Notwithstanding any prohibition or restriction in this
chapter, persons are authorized to erect and maintain election signs as
provided in this subsection. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or
maintain any election sign on any property other than as permitted herein.
      1.   Location Of Signs; Consent Of Property Owner:
         a.   Signs authorized under this subsection S may be placed in the
yard of any building or building lot in the village. It shall be unlawful,
however, to place such signs in any part of the public right of way or in any
place in front of said building which diminishes visibility or constitutes or
creates any danger of a traffic accident.
         b.   It shall be unlawful to erect an election sign upon any property
without the consent of the owner thereof.
         c.   It shall be unlawful for any political sign to be affixed to any
benches, telephone booths, waiting areas for buses, fire hydrants, traffic
control signs or devices, street signs, or utility poles of any kind. Any signs
so affixed may be summarily removed by the zoning enforcement officer.
      2.   Number And Type Of Signs:
         a.   Signs under this subsection S shall be limited to one sign per
building or building lot.
         b.   Signs on residential building lots shall be single or double
faced, nonilluminated, shall not exceed nine (9) square feet in area, and shall
not exceed three feet (3') in height. Election signs of larger sizes where
permitted as off premises signs under other sections of this chapter shall be
permitted after permission is given by the zoning enforcement officer. (Ord.
1150-1-02, 2-21-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
9-11-2: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the following types of signs are
expressly prohibited in all districts:
   A.   Animated And Intensely Lighted Signs:
      1.   No sign shall be permitted which:
         a.   Displays exposed incandescent lamps with ratings in excess of
forty (40) watts;
         b.   Displays exposed incandescent lamps with internal or external
metallic reflectors;
         c.   Displays revolving beacon lights;
         d.   Displays any continuous or sequential flashing operation in which
more than two-thirds (2/3) of the lights are turned on or off at one time.
      2.   All message centers will have a functional automatic dimming device
set to dim message centers at dusk to the equivalent of twenty (20) watt lamp
automatic operation.
   B.   Miscellaneous Signs And Posters: The tacking, pasting or otherwise
affixing of signs of a miscellaneous character, visible from a public way,
located on the walls of buildings, barns, or sheds or on trees, poles, posts,
fences or other structure is prohibited unless otherwise permitted by this
chapter.
   C.   Signs On Public Property: No sign shall be permitted which is placed on
any curb, sidewalk, post, pole, electrolier, hydrant, bridge, tree or other
surface located on public property or over or across any street or public
thoroughfare except as may otherwise expressly be authorized by this chapter or
by written agreement, approved by the village board of trustees, after
determining that said sign is consistent with the intent of this chapter.
   D.   Banners, Searchlights, Twirling Signs, Sandwich Board Signs And
Balloons:
      1.   Banners, pennants, searchlights, twirling signs, sandwich board
signs, balloons or other gas filled figures shall not be used except as
provided in subsection D2 of this section.
      2.   Signs described in subsection D1 of this section will be permitted
at the opening of a new business in a commercial or industrial district for a
total period not to exceed sixty (60) days and will be allowed in residential
districts in conjunction with an open house or model home demonstration
conducted by a realtor for two (2) days before the opening of such a
demonstration to two (2) days after and not to exceed a total period of thirty
(30) days. Such signs shall conform with this chapter.
      3.   Banners used other than what is described and allowed in subsection
D2 of this section may be used in a commercial or industrial district as a
temporary sign subject to a permit for no more than thirty (30) days. Placement
and installation must comply with applicable provisions of this title. Maximum
area allowed is thirty (30) square feet.
   E.   Flags: Flags, other than those of any nation, state or political
subdivision, religious flags, and corporate flags are prohibited except as set
forth in section
9-11-1 of this chapter.
   F.   Unclassified Signs: Signs are also prohibited which:
      1.   Bear or contain statements, words or pictures of an obscene,
pornographic, immoral character, or which contain advertising matter which is
untruthful;
      2.   Are painted on or attached to any fence or any wall which is not
structurally a part of a building, except to identify a residence or residence
structure by means of posting the name of the occupant or structure, and the
street address;
      3.   Operate or employ any stereopticon or motion picture projection or
media in conjunction with any advertisements, or have visible moving parts or
any portion of which moves, or give the illusion of motion except at licensed
drive-in theaters;
      4.   Emit audible sound, odor or visible matter;
      5.   Purport to be or are an imitation of or resemble an official traffic
sign or signal, or which bear the words "Stop", "Go Slow", "Caution", "Danger",
"Warning", or similar words;
      6.   By reason of their size, location, movement, content, coloring or
manner of illumination, may be confused with or constructed as a traffic
control sign, signal or device, or the light of an emergency or road equipment
vehicle, or which obstruct a motorist's or pedestrian's view of any traffic or
street sign or signal or device;
      7.   Are declared to be unsafe and unlawful signs under the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002)
9-11-3: PLACEMENT OF SIGNS:
Every sign shall be placed at least fifteen feet (15') off the edge of the hard
surface of any street, unless otherwise stipulated within this chapter. (Ord.
1150-1-02, 2-21-2002)
9-11-4: REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL OF SIGNS:
   A.   Removal Or Disposal Required:
      1.   Unmaintained And Unrepaired Signs: Every sign shall be maintained in
a safe, presentable and good structural material condition at all times,
including the replacement of defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning,
and other acts required for the maintenance of said sign. The zoning
enforcement officer shall require compliance with all standards of this chapter
and any other applicable laws. If the sign is not made to comply with adequate
safety standards, the zoning enforcement officer shall require its removal.
      2.   Abandoned Signs: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any
sign which is located on property which becomes vacant and unoccupied for a
period of three (3) months or more, or any sign which pertains to a time,
event, or purpose which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been
abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended
because of a change of ownership or management of such business shall not be
deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of six (6)
months or more. An abandoned sign is prohibited and shall be removed by the
owner of the sign or the owner of the premises.
      3.   Dangerous Or Defective Signs: No person shall maintain or permit to
be maintained on any premises owned or controlled by him any sign which is in a
dangerous or defective condition. Any such sign shall be removed or repaired by
the owner of the sign or owner of the premises.
      4.   Unlawful Signs: It shall be illegal for any person to erect, create,
paint, own, keep, display or maintain any sign which does not comply with the
provisions of this chapter or any other applicable laws. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-
2002)
   B.   Removal Procedure:
      1.   The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be removed any sign
known by him to be unlawfully placed on any public right of way or on any
utility easement within the village. Any such unlawfully placed sign may be
removed by the zoning enforcement officer without notice to the owner thereof
in an emergency; and otherwise, within twenty four (24) hours after the owner
thereof, if known, has been notified by the zoning enforcement officer.
      2.   The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be removed any sign
believed by him to endanger the public safety. Such sign may be removed by the
zoning enforcement officer without notice to the owner thereof in an emergency
and shall be removed by the zoning enforcement officer in any case within
twenty four (24) hours after the owner thereof, if known, has been notified by
the zoning enforcement officer. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   The zoning enforcement officer shall cause to be removed an
abandoned sign; a sign which is materially, electrically or structurally
defective; or a sign which otherwise has been declared to be unlawful. The
zoning enforcement officer shall prepare a notice to the owner, if known, which
shall describe the sign and specify the violation or lack of compliance
involved and which shall state that if the sign is not removed or the violation
is not corrected within fourteen (14) days, the sign shall be removed in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection. During the time of removal,
other new signs placed on the premises which are similarly in violation may be
removed without advance notice. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002)
      4.   The owner of any unlawfully placed or otherwise unlawful sign that
has been removed by the zoning enforcement officer may redeem such sign from
the zoning enforcement officer upon payment of the costs to the village of
causing such sign to be removed. Such costs of removal for all such signs shall
not be less than seventy five dollars ($75.00). Costs of any sign removal shall
be recovered by the village. (Ord. 1150-1-02, 2-21-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
      5.   All notices mailed by the zoning enforcement officer shall be sent
by certified mail, except those written notices which confirm oral notices, and
these may be sent by regular mail as may other notices so specified. Any time
periods provided in this subsection shall be deemed to commence on the date of
the receipt of notice, whether written or oral.
      6.   In the direction of the zoning enforcement officer and except as
otherwise provided herein, notices may also be orally provided to, mailed to or
delivered to the owner of the property on which the sign is located as shown on
the last equalized general real estate tax assessment roll and/or the occupant
of the property, if known.
      7.   Any person having an interest in a sign or property associated
therewith may appeal the determination of the zoning enforcement officer
ordering removal of the sign or compliance by filing a written notice of appeal
with a written statement of the reasons in support of his/her position with the
village board of trustees within fourteen (14) days after the date of receipt
of a notice, whether written or oral, for removal of the sign.
   C.   Disposal Procedure; Costs:
      1.   Any sign removed pursuant to the provisions of this section may be
disposed of in any manner deemed appropriate by the village. The costs to the
village for removal of the sign shall be considered a debt owed the village by
the owner of the sign and/or the owner of the property, and may be recovered in
an appropriate court action by the village or by placement of a lien upon the
property as hereinafter provided. The cost of removal shall include any and all
incidental expenses incurred by the village in connection with the sign's
removal. Costs may be recovered by the village in the manner provided.
      2.   The notice given by the zoning enforcement officer shall state the
remedial action required to be taken. If such action is not taken within the
time limits set forth in this section, the costs of correcting the unlawful
sign may be charged against the property on which the sign is located, together
with an additional five percent (5%) for inspection and incidental costs and an
additional ten percent (10%) penalty for the cost of collection, and collected
in the same manner as real estate taxes against the property.
   D.   Failure To Remove, Repair, Rehabilitate Or Demolish: In the event that
the owner of the premises, or person entitled to possession thereof, or the
owner of the sign shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the notice to
remove, repair, rehabilitate or demolish the sign declared to be unlawful, as
appropriate, the owner of the sign, the owner of the premises upon which the
sign is located, and the person entitled to possession thereof (if other than
the owner of the premises), or all or any of them, may be prosecuted for
violation(s) of this section. The zoning enforcement officer may remove the
sign declared to be unlawful.
   E.   Summary Repair Or Removal Of Hazardous Signs: Notwithstanding the
provisions of this section, in cases of emergency, the zoning enforcement
officer may cause to be repaired or removed summarily and without notice any
unlawful sign which creates an immediate hazard to the public through improper
construction, or which creates a hazard by obstructing view at intersections of
either motorists or pedestrians or any sign which has become an immediate
hazard to the public. Summary removal or repair provided for herein shall not
relieve the owner of the sign or the property on which it is located from
liability to the village for the costs incurred for removal. (Ord. 1150-1-02,
2-21-2002)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Continuance Of Nonconformity
9-12-3: Exempt Nonconformities
9-12-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Land
9-12-5: Nonconforming Structures
9-12-6: Nonconforming Use Of Structures
9-12-7: Nonconforming Signs
9-12-8: Repairs And Maintenance
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses. It is not the purpose of this
chapter to deprive the owner of the use or maintenance of any property for the
purpose to which it is lawfully devoted at the effective date hereof, but to
provide for the eventual elimination of uses, buildings, or structures which
are incompatible with the character of the district in which they are located.
(Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-12-2: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMITY:
Any nonconforming building, structure, or use which exists lawfully at the
effective date hereof may be continued in accordance with the regulations of
this chapter. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-12-3: EXEMPT NONCONFORMITIES:
A structure, building, or use shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter solely by reason of being nonconforming with respect to the standards
for yards, lot area per dwelling unit, lot width, or off street parking or
loading facilities. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-12-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND:
Where, on the effective date hereof, a lawful use of land exists that is no
longer permissible under the regulations and standards of this title, such use
may be continued subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No such use of land shall be enlarged, increased, or extended to occupy
a greater area of land than was occupied on the date when the use became
nonconforming.
   B.   No such use of land may be moved to any other portion of the lot not so
occupied when the use became nonconforming.
   C.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, any subsequent
use of the land shall conform to the standards contained in this title for the
district in which such use is located. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-12-5: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Where, on the effective date hereof, a lawful structure exists that could not
be built under the regulations contained in this title by reasons of
restrictions on lot area, lot coverage, height, yards, spacing between
buildings, or other characteristics of the structure or its location on the
lot, such structure may continue to exist so long as it remains otherwise
lawful subject to the following:
   A.   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its nonconformity.
   B.   Should such structure be damaged or destroyed to an extent of more than
fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   C.   Should any structure be moved for any reason and for any distance, it
shall conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located after
it is moved. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-12-6: NONCONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES:
Where, on the effective date hereof, a lawful use of a structure exists that is
no longer permissible under the regulations contained in this title, such use
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to the
following:
   A.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title in
the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
moved, or altered except to change the use to a use permitted in the district
in which it is located.
   B.   No nonconforming use of a structure may be extended to any part of the
structure not occupied by said use at the effective date hereof, and no such
use shall be extended to occupy land outside of such structure.
   C.   No nonconforming use of a structure may be changed to any other
nonconforming use.
   D.   When any nonconforming use is converted to a permitted use, the
nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
   E.   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for three (3) consecutive
months or for any twelve (12) months during any two (2) year period, the
premises shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with the
regulations in the district in which it is located.
   F.   Removal or destruction of a structure containing a nonconforming use
shall eliminate the nonconforming status of that use. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
9-12-7: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Signs which do not conform to the provisions of this title as of the effective
date hereof shall be regarded as nonconforming signs subject to the following:
   A.   May not be structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the sign.
   B.   May not be expanded.
   C.   May not be reestablished after being discontinued for ninety (90) days.
   D.   May not be reestablished after damage if the estimated expense of
reconstruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the replacement cost. (Ord. 1150,
4-2-1996)
9-12-8: REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE:
On any structure devoted to a nonconforming use, or which is a nonconforming
structure, ordinary repairs or repair of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or
plumbing may be undertaken; provided, that the volume of such building or the
size of the structure is not increased. (Ord. 1150, 4-2-1996)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Scope
10-1-2: Purposes
10-1-3: Compliance Required; Exemptions
10-1-4: Penalties
10-1-1: SCOPE:
This title applies to every subdivision occurring inside the corporate limits
of the village or occurring in the unincorporated areas within one and one-half
(11/2) miles from the village corporate limits, as those limits exist at the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-1-2: PURPOSES:
Because every subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of this title is or
may become part of the village and because each has or may have an impact on
services provided by the village, as well as on services provided by other
governmental units serving the community, this title is adopted for the
following purposes:
   A.   To protect, provide and promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the village.
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the village in accordance
with the comprehensive plan.
   C.   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy, and to secure safety
from fire, flood, and other danger.
   D.   To protect the character and economic stability of all parts of the
village, and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of all parts
of the community.
   E.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the village and
the value of buildings and improvements upon the land.
   F.   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, stormwater drainage, schools,
parks, playgrounds, recreation and other public facilities.
   G.   To provide for the most beneficial circulation of traffic throughout
the village, avoid congestion of streets and highways, provide for safe
pedestrian traffic movements, and provide for the proper location and width of
streets and building setback lines.
   H.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to ensure proper legal descriptions
and monumenting of subdivided land.
   I.   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision and areas reasonably
anticipated to be served by such facilities.
   J.   To assure the adequacy of drainage facilities and to safeguard the
water table in order to preserve the value of the land.
   K.   To preserve the topography of the village and to ensure appropriate
development with regard to these natural features.
   L.   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout
of the land. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-1-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to subdivide
any land within the corporate limits of the village, or an unincorporated area
within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits, without following
the procedures, satisfying the requirements, and meeting the standards
specified in this title; provided, however, the provisions of this title shall
not apply in the following instances:
      1.   Conveyances of a lot comprising and containing all contiguous
property owned by a person, group of persons, firm or entity, as a single
parcel, to some other person, firm or entity.
      2.   The offer, sale or conveyance of one or more lots of record.
      3.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between the owner of
adjoining and contiguous property which, if subject to the requirements of this
title, would not necessitate the dedication of public rights of way or
installation of public utilities.
      4.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
      5.   Conveyances of land relating to the dedication of land for public
use or the vacation of land impressed with a public use.
      6.   Conveyances of parcels lawfully complying with the provisions of the
Illinois condominium property act.
      7.   Conveyances of land the principal use of which is presently
agricultural and intended to be used principally for agricultural purposes.
   B.   In addition, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to develop, build on, use or improve any lot without dedicating such street
right of way as would have been required by this title if the lot had been
subdivided from a larger parcel. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-1-4: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the investigation or
enforcement of any of the provisions of this title, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00)
nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for the first offense, and not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for the second and each subsequent offense in any one hundred
eighty (180) day period; provided, however, that all actions seeking the
imposition of fines only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to
the provisions of the Illinois code of civil procedures. Repeated offenses in
excess of three (3) within any one hundred eighty (180) day period may also be
punishable as a misdemeanor by incarceration in the county jail for a term not
to exceed six (6) months under the procedure set forth in section
1-2-1.1 of the Illinois municipal code, and under the provisions of the
Illinois code of criminal procedure in a separate proceeding. A separate and
distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person
shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist after
notification or knowledge of the existence thereof. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995; amd.
2016 Code; Ord. 1363, 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in this title shall be interpreted in accordance with
the following rules of construction, unless the context clearly requires a
different construction:
   A.   The singular includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future and the future includes
the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   Terms connoting a particular gender include each and every other
gender.
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined in section
10-2-2 of this chapter appears in the text of this title, its meaning shall be
construed as set forth in the definition thereof.
   F.   All words and terms not defined in section
10-2-2 of this chapter shall be construed in their generally accepted meanings.
   G.   The terms corporate authority, mayor, village board, president, and
board of trustees all mean the village president and board of trustees. (Ord.
1146, 7-5-1995)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, whenever they occur in this title, shall be
interpreted as follows:
ABUTTING (CONTIGUOUS, ADJACENT): To have one or more common boundary lines or
district lines.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by public streets, or by a combination of
streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines or
waterways, the corporate limits of the village, or other lines of demarcation.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The board of trustees of the village of Hudson, Illinois.
BUILDING SETBACK: A line within a lot, or other parcel of land, so designated
on the preliminary plan, which denotes the area between such line and the
adjacent street right of way line where an enclosed building and other
obstructions are prohibited, except those permitted obstructions as regulated
by the Hudson zoning ordinance.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street with only one outlet.
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2)
substantially parallel streets.
DRAINAGEWAY: A portion of a right of way used or intended principally for
stormwater, surface water, or groundwater drainage.
DRIVEWAY: A private accessway for motor vehicles between a public or private
street and one or more structures of off street parking areas.
EASEMENT: A quantity of land which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
(2) substantially parallel streets. The types of easements are as follows:
   Drainage Easement: An area designed and used for conveyance or retention of
runoff in which nothing can be placed that will impede, divert, or cause the
runoff to have an adverse effect on adjoining property. This may be publicly
owned and maintained by the village, or privately owned and maintained.
   Landscaping Easement: A portion of land dedicated for landscaping. This may
be a required landscape barrier or buffer between properties of different uses,
or between a residential neighborhood and an arterial street.
   Line Of Sight Easement: A portion of land where nothing is allowed that
would in any way restrict view.
   No Access Strip: This is a no access strip of land. Many times this will be
included with or adjacent to other easements. No access strips restrict
vehicular access to the property and allow no structures (examples are, but not
all inclusive: sheds, fences, driveways, parking pads, etc.). Some landscaping
is permissible if it qualifies within the line of sight easement requirements.
   Public Utility Easement: Land dedicated for installation of facilities
overhead or underground, furnished for use by the public. This easement may
also be used to dedicate ingress/egress to another property, as in private
street subdivisions. Also included are improvements such as streetlights,
traffic signals, sidewalks, landscaping, and flood control. These facilities
may be owned and operated by any person, firm, corporation, municipal
department, board, or duly authorized by state or municipal regulations.
FINAL PLAT: A map or plan of a subdivision and any accompanying material as
described in this title.
FRONTAGE: The measure of linear contiguity between a lot or portion thereof and
another lot, public street, alley, or public way.
LOT: A quantity of land capable of being described so that its location and
boundaries may be established and which is designated by its owner or developer
as land to be conveyed, used, or developed as a unit, including any easements
located on that land.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot in a platted and recorded subdivision.
"NO ACCESS" STRIP: A land area at least one foot (1') wide along a lot line
within which no vehicular driveways shall be permitted.
OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The composite of the functional and geographic
elements of the comprehensive plan of the village, or any segment thereof in
the form of plans, maps, charts, textual materials, and the official map, as
adopted by the village board.
OFFICIAL MAP: The map adopted by the village board as part of the comprehensive
plan which is designated "official map" in that plan.
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP: The map adopted by the village board showing all of the
zoning district boundaries within the village of Hudson, Illinois.
OUTLOT: A lot depicted on a final subdivision plat which may not be used,
developed, built on, or improved.
PARKWAY: The unpaved strip of land within a street right of way between a curb
and right of way line.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A right of way across or within a block designated for
pedestrian use.
PRELIMINARY PLAN: A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision as
described in this title.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Includes interior streets, exterior streets, sidewalks,
storm sewers, water mains, drainageways, bridges, utility poles, parks and
other structures which are or are intended to be dedicated to the village and
the public generally.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated to or used by the public for vehicular
and/or pedestrian passage; stormwater, surface water or groundwater drainage;
or public utility placement.
SIDEWALK: A portion of a right of way used or intended principally for
pedestrian passage which meets or exceeds the design standards for public
sidewalks.
STREET: That portion of a public right of way used and maintained by the
village which affords the public the principal means of access to adjacent lots
of record or property, and meets the design and construction standards for the
classification it holds.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A collector street functions to conduct traffic between
major streets. It is a principal traffic artery within residential areas and
carries moderate volumes of traffic.
STREET, EXTERIOR: A street on the perimeter of a subdivision.
STREET, HALF: An exterior street improved to the width and construction
standards for half streets.
STREET, INTERIOR: A street entirely within the confines of a subdivision.
STREET, LOCAL: A short street, cul-de-sac, or court. The primary purpose is to
conduct traffic to and from dwelling units to other streets.
STREET, MINOR: Provides connection with major state and interstate roadways.
STREET STANDARDS AND CLASSIFICATIONS: Existing classifications and standards,
as adopted by the village board, pertaining to the requirements for streets, as
from time to time amended.
SUBDIVIDE:
   A.   The division of land into two (2) or more lots, parcels, or tracts.
   B.   The dedication of streets, ways, or other areas for use of the public.
   C.   Any division of land which creates more than one additional lot for
transfer or ownership.
SUBDIVISION: The configuration of lots of record, outlots, public rights of
way, and public improvements which result from subdividing land in accordance
with the procedures, requirements and standards of this title.
VILLAGE CLERK: The village clerk of the village of Hudson or a designated
representative.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: A qualified engineer designated by the village to perform the
duties enumerated in this title. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Preapplication Conference
10-3-2: Preliminary Plan Submission, Review And Approval
10-3-3: Public Improvement Plans And Specifications Submission And Review
10-3-4: Public Improvement Installation And Inspection
10-3-5: Final Plat Submission, Review And Approval
10-3-6: Public Improvement Payment Of Performance And Workmanship Guarantees
10-3-7: Submission Of Public Improvement Record Drawings
10-3-8: Acceptance Of Public Improvements For Maintenance
10-3-9: Final Security Release
10-3-1: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
The owner or developer may schedule one or more preapplication conferences with
the representatives of the village board and staff for the purpose of reviewing
development proposals, sketch plans, and comparable preliminary data, by making
a request for a preapplication conference to the village clerk. The purpose of
a preapplication conference is to review material which is in a preliminary
form and which may, after review and comment, be refined by the owner or
developer into a preliminary subdivision plan. There are no requirements for
the submission of materials at a preapplication conference. Thereafter, the
village board shall furnish the applicant with written comments regarding the
proposed subdivision. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAN SUBMISSION, REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
Before subdividing any land subject to requirements of this title, the owner or
developer shall comply with the following preliminary plan submission, review,
and approval procedure:
   A.   Submission: The owner or developer shall submit to the village clerk
ten (10) copies of a preliminary plan in the form and providing all information
required by section
10-3A-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Application For Approval; Filing Fee:
      1.   An application for approval of a preliminary subdivision plan shall
be filed with the village clerk and be accompanied by a fee receipt reflecting
payment to the village of the appropriate following fee: (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
 
Number Of Acres              Fee
Less than 2                  $150.00
At least 2 but less than 15  300.00
At least 15 but less than 25 450.00
25 or more                   700.00
 
   (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
      2.   The owner or developer will also be responsible for reimbursing the
village for the cost of retaining a village engineer to perform the services
required by this title.
   C.   Scheduling And Notice Of Public Hearing: Upon receipt of a preliminary
plan and the required filing fee, the village clerk shall schedule and give
notice of a public hearing before the village board. The public hearing shall
be scheduled not later than the first regularly scheduled village board meeting
occurring more than fifteen (15) days after the filing date of the preliminary
plan.
   D.   Distribution Of Plan For Review And Comment: The village clerk shall
route one or more copies of the preliminary plan to village staff for review
and comment. One copy of the plan shall be provided to each member of the
village board prior to the public hearing.
   E.   Public Hearing: The village board shall conduct a public hearing on the
preliminary plan during which it shall determine the extent to which the plan
conforms or fails to conform with the standards of this title.
   F.   Village Board Approval Or Rejection: Within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the filing date of the preliminary plan, the village board shall
approve or reject the proposed preliminary plan. Failure of the village board
to act within the prescribed time period shall constitute approval of the
preliminary plan.
   G.   Extension Of Time Periods: Time periods for review by the village board
may be extended by mutual consent of the owner or developer and the village
board. Any such extension shall stay the running of all subsequent time
periods.
   H.   Extension Of Preliminary Plans: Approved preliminary plans or portions
thereof on which no final plat has been submitted for review and approval shall
expire and be of no force or effect two (2) years after this approval, except:
      1.   The filing of a final plat and necessary supporting documents
pursuant to sections 10-3-3 and 10-3-5 of this chapter shall extend the life of
a remaining valid preliminary plan for one year; or
      2.   If the life of a preliminary plan is extended by action of the
village board. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3-3: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBMISSION AND REVIEW:
Before subdividing any land subject to the requirements of this title, an owner
or developer shall comply with the following public improvement plans and
specifications submission, review, and approval procedure:
   A.   Prerequisites: Approval and continuing validity of a preliminary
subdivision plan.
   B.   Submission: Within two (2) years from the approval of a preliminary
plan, or within one year after the extension of a preliminary plan, the owner
or developer shall submit three (3) sets of engineering plans and
specifications for all public improvements proposed in or necessary to serve
lots depicted in an approved preliminary plan or portion thereof, which plans
and specifications shall be in the form and include the content required by
section
10-3A-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Review; Approval Or Disapproval:
      1.   The public improvement plans and specifications shall be reviewed
and approved or disapproved by the village engineer.
      2.   The village engineer will require the owner or developer to submit
all data, plans, specifications, and additional materials as may be necessary
to completely and accurately determine the extent of compliance or
noncompliance with the public improvement design standards and accepted
engineering practices and to demonstrate that the proposed manner of
construction and installation will meet or exceed all public improvement
construction standards as outlined in "A Manual Of Practice For The Design Of
Public Improvements In The Town Of Normal".
      3.   The public improvement plans and specifications shall be approved by
the village engineer if they meet or exceed the subdivision public improvement
design standards and otherwise demonstrate good and acceptable engineering
design and practice.
      4.   Approval or disapproval by the village engineer shall be in writing
and shall make reference to the public improvement plans and specifications.
(Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3-4: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION:
The owner or developer of property desiring to install public improvements in
an area depicted on a proposed or approved preliminary plan or approved or
proposed final subdivision plat shall perform installation in accordance with
the following procedure:
   A.   Prerequisites To Installation:
      1.   For installations before final plat approval:
         a.   Approval and continuing validity of an approved preliminary plan.
         b.   Approval of public improvement engineering plans and
specifications for any and all public improvements which are to be installed or
the installation of which is to be commenced prior to the approval of a final
plat.
      2.   For installation after final plat approval:
         a.   Approval of a final plat.
         b.   Posting of a final plat, public improvement payment, performance
and workmanship bond and security therefor, in the amount and form specified in
section
10-3A-4 of this chapter for all public improvements depicted in, adjacent to,
or necessary to serve lots or outlots depicted in an area for which final plat
approval has been obtained.
   B.   Inspections: During installation of public improvements, either before
or after final plat approval, the owner or developer shall comply with the
requirements of "A Manual Of Practice For The Design Of Public Improvements In
The Town Of Normal" by which the village engineer or his designee shall make
periodic inspections. Failure to comply and install or maintain such
installations in a manner that permits inspection shall constitute grounds for
rejecting or revoking preliminary or final plat approval and forfeiting pledged
security and, in addition, shall constitute a violation of this title.
   C.   Plan Review, Inspection And Testing Fee: The cost incurred by the
village for review of public improvement plans and specifications as required
by section
10-3-3 of this chapter, and the inspection and testing of public improvements
as required by subsection B of this section shall be paid by the owner or
developer. Such cost shall be equal to that actual cost incurred by the village
in labor, materials, transportation, and overhead for such review, inspection,
and testing. At the time such plans and specifications are filed with the
village engineer, the owner or developer shall pay to the village a fee of two
percent (2%) of the costs as estimated by the village engineer of such required
land improvements. Said fee shall be applied as credit against the actual costs
incurred by the village for review of such plans and the inspection and testing
of such improvements. The balance of the actual costs shall be paid to the
village by the owner or developer at the time such review and inspection has
been completed by the village.
   D.   Grading Plans: The owner or developer shall submit to the village
engineer for approval, prior to the installation of any utilities serving a
proposed lot of record, a drawing of the grading plan which is required by "A
Manual Of Practice For The Design Of Public Improvements In The Town Of
Normal". The drawings submitted shall be one clear and legible transparent
mylar, and one photostatic print of the approved grading plan and shall also
depict the actual ground surface elevations on all lot corners and building
paths in addition to the proposed elevations on the approved grading plan.
(Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3-5: FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION, REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
Before subdividing any land subject to the requirements of this title, an owner
or developer shall comply with the following final plat submission, review and
approval procedure:
   A.   Prerequisites:
      1.   Approval and continuing validity of a preliminary subdivision plan;
      2.   Approval of the public improvement plans and specifications proposed
in, adjacent to, or necessary to serve lots or outlots depicted in the area for
which final plat approval is sought;
      3.   Payment of any and all applicable tap-on fees; and
      4.   Prior to recording the final plat, the posting of any required final
plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond; filing and
establishment of any required adjacent street substandard roadway improvement
guarantees and security; making of any required public land dedications or cash
contribution in lieu thereof; and obtaining and filing with the village any off
site easements or rights of way for public improvements service on the site;
      5.   Submission of a fee receipt reflecting payment to the village board
of the following fee: (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
 
Number Of Acres              Fee
Less than 2                  $150.00
At least 2 but less than 15  300.00
At least 15 but less than 25 450.00
25 or more                   700.00
 
(Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Submission: Within two (2) years from the approval of a preliminary
subdivision plan or one year from the most recent action extending the life of
an approved preliminary plan, the owner or developer shall submit to the
village clerk ten (10) copies of a final plat.
   C.   Village Board Review; Approval Or Disapproval: Within thirty (30) days
from the submission of a final plat and supporting material, the village board
shall review the final plat to determine the extent to which it conforms with
the approved preliminary plan and approved public improvement plans and
specifications and shall further review the supporting material to determine
its conformance with the requirements of this title. If the final plat
substantially conforms with the approved preliminary plan and public
improvement plans and specifications, and if the supporting material meets all
requirements of this title, then the village board shall approve the final plat
by resolution within thirty (30) days from the date of its review. The village
board may approve such plat subject to the subsequent posting of final plat
payment, performance and workmanship bond, adjacent substandard roadway
improvement guarantee, and related security documents and reserves. If the
final plat does not in some way substantially conform with the approved
preliminary plan, or if the supporting material does not conform with all
requirements of this title, then the village board, within thirty (30) days
from the date of its review, shall take one of the following actions:
      1.   By resolution, approve the final plat.
      2.   By resolution, approve the final plat with conditions.
      3.   By resolution, disapprove the final plat.
   D.   Recording: Within seven (7) days from the date of adoption of a
resolution approving the final plat or within seven (7) days from the date on
which the last event referred to this title or characterized in the resolution
as a prerequisite to recording of the final plat occurs, whichever is later,
the village clerk shall record a copy of the final plat, a certified copy of
the resolution approving the final plat, and any supporting certificates
necessary to accomplish the recording in the office of the county recorder of
deeds.
   E.   Expedited Final Plat Submission; Subdivision With Three Lots Or Less:
Notwithstanding the procedure for subdivision plan submission, review and
approval specified elsewhere in this chapter, an owner or developer meeting the
prerequisites specified in this subsection may utilize the expedited final plat
process described as follows:
      1.   Prerequisites:
         a.   The plat depicts a total of not more than three (3) lots and
outlots.
         b.   The plat includes all contiguous property in common ownership or
unified control.
      2.   Submission: Any person desiring to utilize the expedited final plat
procedure shall submit the following to the village clerk:
         a.   A written request to waive the preliminary plan and construction
drawing, submission, review, and approval procedure.
         b.   Six (6) copies of a utility plat and floodplain map. The utility
plat shall show all information of existing and proposed utilities as required
for a preliminary plan. The floodplain map will outline the area in the flood
hazard area.
         c.   Ten (10) copies of the final plat in a form providing all
information, data, and supporting material required by section
10-3A-3 of this chapter.
         d.   A fee receipt reflecting payment to the village board of the
appropriate fee:
 
Number Of Acres              Fee
Less than 2                  $150.00
At least 2 but less than 15  300.00
At least 15 but less than 25 450.00
25 or more                   700.00
 
      3.   Distribution For Review And Comment: One copy of the final plat
shall be provided to each member of the village board prior to their
consideration of the plat.
      4.   Village Board Review; Approval Or Disapproval: Within thirty (30)
days from the submission of a final plat under this expedited review and
procedure, the village board shall review the submission to determine the
extent to which it conforms with the requirements of this title. If the
material meets all requirements of this title, then the village board shall
approve the final plat by resolution within thirty (30) days from the date of
its review. The village board may approve such plat subject to the subsequent
posting of a final plat payment, performance and workmanship bond; adjacent
substandard roadway improvement guarantee, public improvement engineering plans
and specifications and related materials, security documents and reserves. If
the final plat in some way does not conform with all requirements of this
title, then within thirty (30) days from the date of its review, the village
board shall take one or more of the following actions:
         a.   By resolution, approve the final plat.
         b.   By resolution, approve the final plat with conditions.
         c.   By resolution, disapprove the final plat.
         d.   Require the submission of a preliminary plan and/or public
improvement engineering plans and specifications.
      5.   Compliance With Other Requirements: Except as provided in this
section, the recording of the final plat, the posting of bonds, and the
submission of as built plans and the release of bonds shall be as provided in
this title. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3-6: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PAYMENT OF PERFORMANCE AND WORKMANSHIP GUARANTEES:
Either prior to the approval of a final subdivision plat or prior to its
recording and within the time framework, if any, specified in the resolution of
approval, the owner or developer shall post, secure and file with the village
clerk a final plat public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond
with appropriate evidence of security and file and establish an adjacent
substandard roadway improvement guarantee and security in the manner, amount
and form approved by the village board. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3-7: SUBMISSION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT RECORD DRAWINGS:
After installation, completion, inspection, testing and receipt of engineering
approval, but before acceptance for maintenance of any public improvements
within a subdivision, the owner or developer shall submit record drawings of
the public improvement plans in the form and with the content required by "A
Manual Of Practice For The Design Of Public Improvements In The Town Of
Normal". (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3-8: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS FOR MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Completion Of All Public Improvements: After the developer has complied
with the requirements of "A Manual Of Practice For The Design Of Public
Improvements In The Town Of Normal" and within thirty (30) days after the
village engineer's written recommendation for acceptance, the village board
shall, by resolution, accept for maintenance all public improvements within,
adjacent to, or serving lots or outlots depicted on a final plat.
   B.   Completion Of All Public Improvements Except Sidewalks:
      1.   If the developer has complied with all of the requirements of "A
Manual Of Practice For The Design Of Public Improvements In The Town Of Normal"
except the completion and inspection of an approved proposed sidewalk, then the
developer may post payment, performance, and workmanship guarantee guaranteeing
the construction of the proposed sidewalk, which guarantee shall be secured by
posting a cash escrow with the village in the amount determined by the village
engineer. If the guarantee and security is posted for the approved proposed
sidewalk, then within thirty (30) days after the village engineer's written
recommendation for acceptance of all public improvements except the sidewalk,
the village board shall, by resolution, accept for maintenance all public
improvements except sidewalks within, adjacent to, or serving lots or outlots
depicted on a final plat.
      2.   If the developer constructs the approved proposed sidewalk as
guaranteed, then the village shall, upon approval by the village engineer,
release to the developer the posted cash escrow securing such sidewalk
construction. If the approved proposed sidewalk for which guarantee and cash
escrow has been posted is not constructed within two (2) years of posting such
guarantee and cash escrow, the village may use the funds in the cash escrow to
construct the approved proposed sidewalk, billing the developer for any
deficiency and refunding to the developer any surplus from the cash escrow
account. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3-9: FINAL SECURITY RELEASE:
   A.   Final Plat Public Improvement Payment; Performance And Workmanship
Bonds: One year after the date on which a resolution accepting a final plat for
maintenance is adopted, unless a material or workmanship claim is submitted to
the surety company or escrow agent, the security for final plat public
improvement, payment, performance and workmanship bonds shall expire and may be
released upon certification of satisfactory condition by the village engineer.
   B.   Adjacent Substandard Roadway Improvement Guarantee And Security: The
adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee and security shall expire
unless the village engineer has earlier certified completion of improvements to
adjacent substandard roadways, and the security, plus interest at seven percent
(7%) per annum, may be released without further action by the village board.
(Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
ARTICLE A. FORM AND CONTENTS
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Preliminary Plan And Supporting Material
10-3A-2: Public Improvement Engineering Plans And Specifications
10-3A-3: Final Plat And Supporting Material
10-3A-4: Payment, Performance And Workmanship Guarantees
10-3A-5: As Built Plans
10-3A-1: PRELIMINARY PLAN AND SUPPORTING MATERIAL:
   A.   Generally: The owner or developer submitting a preliminary plan shall
submit all information required by this section in the form specified. Failure
of an owner or developer to provide this information in the form required shall
be sufficient grounds for the village to refuse to accept filing of a
preliminary plan or to reject the preliminary plan at any stage in the review
and approval process and, in addition, shall constitute a violation of this
title.
   B.   Minimum Area Included In Preliminary Plan: A preliminary plan shall
include not less than all contiguous property in common ownership or unified
control.
   C.   Preliminary Plan And Supporting Documents:
      1.   Required Form: Plans, drawings, surveys, maps, schematics, and
comparable material shall be drawn so that clear and legible transparent or
contact prints and photostatic (photographic) copies (reproductions) can be
made with a maximum width of twenty four inches (24") (preferably 24 inches by
36 inches) but with a maximum length of thirty six inches (36"). If the total
preliminary plan exceeds more than one sheet, then a one sheet comprehensive
plan of the entire development, and this comprehensive plan sheet shall not
exceed forty eight inches (48") in width.
      2.   Required Contents:
         a.   Identification And Description:
            (1)   Name of the subdivision, not duplicating the name of any
other subdivision, the final plat of which has been recorded in the county.
            (2)   Legal description of all property included in the preliminary
plan, including a reference to the section, township, and range.
            (3)   Name, address, and phone number of the owner or owners of
record of all property within the preliminary plan.
            (4)   Name, address, and phone number of the developer of the
proposed subdivision.
            (5)   Disclosure of the legal relationship, if any, between the
owner and developer, including any of the following:
               (A)   Agent of the owner.
               (B)   Purchaser under a contract for sale with the owner,
contingent or otherwise.
               (C)   Unrecorded owner.
               (D)   Contract purchaser.
 
            (6)   Name, address, and phone number of the engineering firm
preparing the boundary survey.
            (7)   Name, address, and phone number of the registered
professional engineer preparing any part of the preliminary plan or supporting
material.
            (8)   Name, address, and phone number of attorney(s) representing
the owner(s) and/or developer(s).
            (9)   The source of all topographical data.
            (10)   Total acreage in the preliminary plan.
         b.   Survey Maps And Drawings Indicating Existing Conditions: A
professional Illinois land surveyor or registered professional engineer shall
prepare graphic presentations of the following in each case, with a north point
designated as true north and a date of preparation indicated on the survey map,
drawing, or plan. Unless otherwise noted, the following shall be drawn to an
engineering scale not to exceed one hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100'):
            (1)   Boundary line survey map with accurate distances and angles,
with a permissible error of closure of one in five thousand (5,000), prepared
and certified accurate by an Illinois professional land surveyor.
            (2)   Topographic map depicting existing contours at vertical
intervals of not more than two feet (2'), with reference to USGS datum.
            (3)   Location and perimeter of any area designated as a special
flood hazard area. If the property included in the preliminary plan is not a
special flood hazard area, the surveyor or engineer shall so state on the
preliminary plan.
            (4)   Specific identification, location and dimensions, if
applicable, of the following located within fifty feet (50') of the area
included in the preliminary plan:
               (A)   Rights of way.
               (B)   Streets.
               (C)   Roadways.
               (D)   Drainageways.
               (E)   Sidewalks.
               (F)   Easements.
               (G)   Section lines.
               (H)   Corporate limit lines.
               (I)   Parks, schools, and other public lands.
               (J)   Buildings and structures to remain.
            (5)   Identification, location, size, gradient, and invert
elevation of storm sewers, drainage culverts, catch basins, and storm sewer
manholes located within the area included in the preliminary plan, the area
within one hundred feet (100') of the perimeter of the area included in the
preliminary plan or located elsewhere if such constitutes the nearest existing
storm sewer, drainage culvert, catch basin, or storm sewer manhole serving the
area included in the preliminary plan.
            (6)   Identification and location of water mains, including all
valves and hydrants and any other underground utilities located within the area
included in the preliminary plan, and the area within one hundred feet (100')
of the perimeter of the area included in the preliminary plan or located
elsewhere if such constitutes the nearest existing water main, valve or hydrant
or other underground utility serving the area included in the preliminary plan.
            (7)   Location of or reference to location of existing monuments or
survey markers used in preparation of the boundary line survey map and bench
marks.
            (8)   Location map, drawn to any scale, showing an area not less
than one-half (1/2) mile beyond the boundaries of the area included in the
preliminary plan.
         c.   Surveys, Maps, Plans And Drawings Of Proposed Conditions: A
registered professional engineer shall prepare and certify as accurate, to the
degree of accuracy specified, surveys, maps plans, and drawings with a north
point designated as true north and containing a date of preparation depicting
the proposed arrangement of the area included in the preliminary plan
indicating each of the following to an engineering scale not to exceed one
hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100'):
            (1)   Identification, location and dimensions of any of the
following required or proposed:
               (A)   Rights of way.
               (B)   Interior streets with approximate elevation and proposed
gradient.
               (C)   Exterior streets with approximate elevation and proposed
gradient.
               (D)   Street or roadway names.
               (E)   Walkways.
               (F)   Sidewalks.
               (G)   Easements.
               (H)   Lots.
               (I)   Outlots.
               (J)   Minimum front yard setback.
               (K)   Other areas proposed for dedication or reservation to the
public.
            (2)   Identification, location and size of any of the following
required or proposed:
               (A)   Water mains.
               (B)   Valves.
               (C)   Hydrants.
               (D)   Streetlights.
            (3)   Identification, location, size, gradient, invert elevation,
and typical cross section of any of the following required or proposed in the
area included in the preliminary plan:
               (A)   Drainageways.
               (B)   Storm drains.
            (4)   Identification, location, size, gradient, surface elevation,
and invert elevation of any of the following required or proposed in the
preliminary plan:
               (A)   Storm sewers.
               (B)   Storm sewer manholes.
            (5)   Direction of stormwater runoff from each lot and outlot
proposed or required in the preliminary plan.
         d.   Engineering Identification: The preliminary plan shall contain
the name and seal(s) of the professional engineer(s) preparing all or any
portion of the preliminary plan. All waivers required of the village codes and
ordinances shall be listed on the preliminary plan. Approval of the preliminary
plan shall not constitute waiver of any applicable village codes and ordinances
unless the waiver is specifically approved by the village board.
         e.   Application For Special Flood Hazard Area Development Permit:
Accompanying the preliminary plan shall be an application for a special flood
hazard area development permit. The preliminary plan shall show the limits of
the special flood hazard area, changes in grade resulting from excavation and
filling, and location and lowest floor elevation of buildings proposed within
the special flood hazard area. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3A-2: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT ENGINEERING PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Generally: The owner or developer submitting public improvement
engineering plans and specifications shall submit all the information required
by this section in the form specified. Failure of an owner or developer to
provide this information in the form required shall be sufficient grounds for
the village to refuse to accept the filing of the public improvement
engineering plans and specifications, to reject the plans and specifications at
any stage in the review and approval process, or to reject a final plat
depicting lots or outlots served by such public improvements.
   B.   Minimum Material To Be Submitted: Engineering plans and specifications
shall be submitted for all public improvements proposed in or necessary to
serve lots depicted in an approved preliminary plan or portion thereof. Such
materials shall include, without limitation, plans, profiles, standard details,
and special details drawn in sufficient detail and supported with sufficient
data to make possible a complete and accurate determination of the extent of
compliance or noncompliance with the village subdivision public improvement
design standards and sufficient to permit construction and installation of the
proposed improvements without additional or supporting engineering data.
   C.   Required Form:
      1.   Public improvement engineering plans and specifications, drawings,
schematics, and comparable material(s) shall be drawn with a drawing pencil on
transparent abilene, or with black waterproof drawing ink on mylar from which
clear and legible transparent or contact prints and photostatic copies can be
made, with a maximum width of twenty four inches (24") (preferably 24 inches by
36 inches) but with a maximum length of thirty six inches (36").
      2.   Supporting material(s) shall be typed on paper not exceeding eight
and one-half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") in size.
   D.   Required Contents:
      1.   Identification And Description: The public improvement engineering
plans and specifications shall include a "title sheet" containing the following
information:
         a.   The name of the proposed subdivision within which or for which
the public improvements are proposed.
         b.   The name, address, and phone number of the developer(s).
         c.   The name, address, and phone number of the engineering firm
preparing any part of the engineering plans and specifications and an
indication of the part of the plans that the engineer(s) prepared.
         d.   Seal(s) of the professional engineer(s) preparing all or any
portion of the engineering plans and specifications certifying that the
materials so prepared conform with all applicable village codes and ordinances
except as specifically noted as a requested waiver.
         e.   Location map, drawn to any scale, showing the area bounded by the
limits of the preliminary plan for which the engineering plans are all or a
portion thereof.
         f.   Two (2) or more benchmark elevations referenced to USGS datum
within the boundaries of the project or within one hundred feet (100') outside
the boundaries of the project.
         g.   An index to all sheets contained within the submitted engineering
plans.
      2.   Grading Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a "grading plan" containing (but not limited to)
the following information:
         a.   Existing contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet
(2'), with reference to USGS datum.
         b.   Proposed finish ground surface elevations on all corners.
         c.   Directional arrows of flow of surface waters along rear and side
lot lines.
         d.   Elevations of proposed ground surface of all building sites (or
pads).
         e.   Location, description, and surface elevation of all drainage
structures.
         f.   Directional arrows of flow for flood routing for design storms
which exceed the capacity of the proposed storm sewers (minimum of 50-year
frequency design storm).
         g.   Typical cross sections of flood routing channels showing maximum
depth of flow.
      3.   Drainageway Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a "drainageway plan" (if applicable) containing
(but not limited to) the following information:
         a.   Existing contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet
(2'), with reference to USGS datum.
         b.   Proposed alignment of the centerline of the right of way and the
right of way width for the entire length of the proposed improvement and the
existing alignment for two hundred feet (200') upstream and downstream of the
improvement.
         c.   Proposed and existing profiles for the entire length of the
improvement and existing profile for two hundred feet (200') upstream and
downstream of the improvement.
         d.   Typical cross section of the drainageway improvement.
         e.   Cross sections of the improvement showing the before and after
100-year flood surface elevation.
      4.   Erosion And Sedimentation Control Plan: The public improvement
engineering plans and specifications shall include a plan for controlling
erosion and sedimentation by one or more of the following methods for the
period when site work commences to the completion of the development:
         a.   Stop erosion on the site by soil stabilization or runoff control
measures.
         b.   Allow erosion to take place and then control sediment before it
leaves the site.
         c.   A combination of the methods in subsections D4a and D4b of this
section.
      5.   Street And Sidewalk Plan: The public improvement engineering plans
and specifications shall include a "street and sidewalk plan" containing (but
not limited to) the following information:
         a.   Existing and proposed street alignments showing centerline, back
of curb, right of way, and stationing of roadways.
         b.   Existing and proposed profiles of pavement referenced to
centerline stationing and USGS datum.
         c.   Existing and proposed alignment of sidewalks or walkways showing
edges of the sidewalk.
         d.   Existing and proposed cross sections of roadways on an average
horizontal interval of fifty feet (50').
         e.   Horizontal curve data for all curvilinear alignments of existing
and proposed roadways.
      6.   Storm Sewer Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a "storm sewer plan" containing (but not limited
to) the following information:
         a.   Alignment and location of existing and proposed storm sewer
conduits and referenced to stationing.
         b.   Location and identification of all existing and proposed drainage
structures.
         c.   Size of existing and proposed conduits.
         d.   Profile of proposed conduits showing invert elevations based on
USGS datum and crossings of other existing and proposed utilities.
         e.   Locations along the alignment of proposed conduits of granular
trench backfill placement.
      7.   Water Main Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a "water main plan" containing (but not limited
to) the following information:
         a.   Alignment and location of existing and proposed water main
conduits and service lines referenced to stationing.
         b.   Location and identification of all existing and proposed valves
and hydrants.
         c.   Location and identification of proposed service lines.
         d.   Size of existing and proposed water main conduits and services.
         e.   Profile of proposed water main conduits showing elevations based
on USGS datum and crossings of other existing and proposed utilities.
         f.   Locations along the alignment of proposed water main conduits and
services of granular trench backfill placement.
      8.   Streetlight Plan: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include a "streetlight plan" containing (but not limited
to) the location and identification of existing and proposed streetlight
installation(s) as they relate to the proposed project.
      9.   Specific Details: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include specific details containing (but not limited to)
the following information:
         a.   Typical cross sections of streets and rights of way.
         b.   Intersection details for concrete pavements showing joint
locations, elevations, drainage structures, and surface water flow.
         c.   Cul-de-sac details showing joint locations, elevations, drainage
structures, surface water flow and centerline control.
      10.   Standard Details: The public improvement engineering plans and
specifications shall include standard details contained in the following
chapters of the "Manual Of Practice For The Design Of Public Improvements In
The Town Of Normal":
         a.   Pavement, curb, and gutter construction, chapter 4.
         b.   Storm sewer construction, chapter 6.
         c.   Water main construction, chapter 8.
         d.   Sidewalk and walkway construction, chapter 5.
   E.   Specification Requirements:
      1.   Technical specifications shall be submitted with the public
improvement engineering plans and specifications as required and shall be
complete in themselves; except, that appropriate specific sections of the most
recent editions of the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", as published by the Illinois department of transportation, and
the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois", and the various standard published material specifications prepared
by associations such as the American Society For Testing And Materials and the
American Water Works Association may be incorporated by reference.
      2.   The specifications shall include (but not be limited to) all
information not shown on the drawings which is necessary to establish in detail
the quality of materials and workmanship required in the project, other
parameters for testing the various parts of the project and instructions for
testing material and equipment.
      3.   The specifications shall include a clause that all work included
shall be guaranteed by the contractor to be free from defects in workmanship
and materials and in conformance with the approved plans and specifications and
that the contractor shall replace or repair any work or material found to be
defective upon written notice from either the design engineer or the village
engineer that said defects exist for a period of twelve (12) months from the
date of written acceptance by the village board of that portion of the total
project which the contractor concerned has contracted to complete.
      4.   Special provisions specific to construction within the village are
specified in the various chapters of this title and are to be used as a guide
for the preparation of specifications to be submitted to the village engineer
for review and approval.
   F.   Design Computations:
      1.   Design computations shall be made by the design engineer for all
phases of the project when such computations are required by the manual or, in
the opinion of the village engineer, to ensure the adequacy, stability, and
safety of the work. Said computations shall be neat and legible and in a form
required by the manual and that can be readily followed and understood by a
competent engineer, experienced in the field. Said computations will include
(but not necessarily be limited to) the following:
         a.   Submitted with preliminary plan: Preliminary design calculations
used by the design engineer for the following:
            (1)   Detention basin design.
            (2)   Storm sewer system design.
         b.   Submitted with public improvement engineering plans and
specifications: Detailed design calculations for the following:
            (1)   Detention basin design.
            (2)   Storm sewer system design.
            (3)   Flood routing and waterway design.
            (4)   Bridge and culvert hydraulic design.
            (5)   Coordinate geometry calculations for public rights of way.
         c.   Submitted with final plat:
            (1)   Boundary closure calculations.
            (2)   Lot corner coordinate data.
      2.   Form and content for each set of detailed design computations
submitted with the public improvement engineering plans and specifications and
final subdivision plats are specified in the following chapters of "The Manual
Of Practice For The Design Of Public Improvements In The Town Of Normal":
         a.   Detention basin design, chapter 6.
         b.   Storm sewer system design, chapter 6.
         c.   Flood routing and open channel design, chapter 6.
         d.   Bridge and culvert hydraulic design, chapter 10.
         e.   Coordinate geometry calculations for ROW, chapter 3.
         f.   Boundary closure calculations, chapter 3.
         g.   Lot corner coordinate data, chapter 3.
   G.   Estimate Requirements: The design engineer shall prepare a detailed
estimate of the cost of the work, categorized to show the various divisions of
the work, including engineering costs as a separate item, itemized in such a
fashion as to make possible a comparison of the estimated cost with actual cost
encountered for similar work in the past. Estimates of cost will be required as
follows:
      1.   Submittal of the public improvement engineering plans and
specifications to the village engineer for approval.
      2.   Prior to release of funds from escrow accounts posed as security for
payment, performance, and workmanship guarantees by the village engineer.
      3.   Prior to the release of funds from cash reserve accounts posted as
security for adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee and security by
the village engineer.
      4.   Submittal of final subdivision plat for approval.
   H.   Other Permit Applications And Approvals: Other governmental agencies
may review and approve for construction all or certain parts of the work
included in a project and may require a permit or application for a permit for
such work. They may also require that such a permit or application for a permit
be executed by the village. When such a permit or permit application is
required, it shall be prepared, ready for signatures, and contain all required
supporting documentation by the design engineer. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3A-3: FINAL PLAT AND SUPPORTING MATERIAL:
   A.   Generally: The owner or developer submitting a final plat shall submit
all information required by this section in the form specified. Failure of an
owner or developer to provide this information in the form required shall be
sufficient grounds for the village to refuse to accept the filing of a final
plat or to reject the final plat in any stage of the review and approval
process.
   B.   Area Included In Final Plat:
      1.   A final plat shall not include any area not included in an approved
and valid preliminary plan.
      2.   A final plat shall not depict any public improvements or lots served
by, which are to be served by, or which, under this title, require service by
public improvements unless the public improvement engineering plans and
specifications for such public improvements have been submitted, reviewed, and
approved.
      3.   A final plat shall not be submitted for any portion of an approved
preliminary plan if the property remaining within the approved preliminary
plan, not yet final platted, is less than five (5) acres in area, but shall be
submitted for all the area remaining in such an approved preliminary plan.
   C.   Final Plat And Supporting Material:
      1.   Required Form:
         a.   Final plats shall be drawn with black waterproof drawing ink on
mylar, from which clear and legible transparent or contact prints and
photostatic copies can be made, with a maximum width of twenty four inches
(24") (preferably 24 inches by 36 inches) but with a maximum length of thirty
six inches (36").
         b.   Supporting material shall be typed on paper not exceeding eight
and one-half inches by fourteen inches (81/2" x 14") in size.
      2.   Required Contents:
         a.   Identification And Description:
            (1)   The name of the subdivision, not duplicating the name of any
other subdivision, a final plat of which has been recorded in the county.
            (2)   The legal description of all property included in the final
plat, including a reference to the section, township, and range.
            (3)   Name and address of the developer of the proposed
subdivision.
            (4)   Name and address of the professional land surveyor preparing
the boundary survey.
            (5)   Total acreage in the final plat.
         b.   Lot, Outlot And Public Improvement Configuration: An Illinois
professional land surveyor shall prepare and certify as accurate, angular and
linear dimensions of all lines, angles, and curvatures to an engineering scale
not to exceed one hundred feet to one inch (1" = 100') necessary to accurately
depict the location of the following:
            (1)   Rights of way, including the name(s) of any street(s) or
roadway(s) depicted.
            (2)   Public easements.
            (3)   Proposed lots of record consecutively numbered and keyed on
the plat.
            (4)   Outlots, indicated consecutively and keyed on the plat.
            (5)   Minimum front yard setbacks.
            (6)   Other areas dedicated or reserved to the public.
            (7)   Boundaries of the subdivision.
            (8)   Field references to:
               (A)   The nearest established street lines and official
monuments which shall be accurately described in the plat by location, size and
elevation.
               (B)   Township and section lines if the same are within the
boundary of the final plat, or within one hundred feet (100') therefrom,
referenced accurately to the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
               (C)   All monuments placed at all block corners, angle points
and at intermediate points installed in such a manner that they may be located
by a professional land surveyor.
            (9)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer
stating which lots (if any) are located within a special flood hazard area.
         c.   Certificates: The final plat shall be accompanied by the
following certificates duly and appropriately executed in a form approved by
the village board:
            (1)   Owner with notary;
            (2)   Surveyor;
            (3)   Drainage;
            (4)   County clerk; and
            (5)   County clerk for final plats of land located outside the
village corporate limits but within the jurisdiction of this title. (Ord. 1146,
7-5-1995)
10-3A-4: PAYMENT, PERFORMANCE AND WORKMANSHIP GUARANTEES:
   A.   Final Plat Public Improvement Payment, Performance And Workmanship
Bond:
      1.   Nature Of Obligation:
         a.   Any owner, developer or subdivider shall submit a final plat
public improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond obligating the
signer(s) to do each of the following:
            (1)   Install all public improvements depicted on or in an approved
preliminary plan, engineering plans and specifications, or final plat in
accordance with the approved public improvement engineering plans and
specifications.
            (2)   Pay all plan review and inspection fees.
            (3)   Prepare and submit to the village one complete set of plans
and specifications showing such required land improvements as actually
installed in the manner described in section
10-3A-5 of this article.
         b.   In each case, within two (2) years following the approval of the
final plat by the village board and prior to acceptance of the improvements for
maintenance. In addition, the execution of the subdivider's final plat public
improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond shall obligate the signer
(s) to guarantee the improvements against faulty materials and workmanship for
a period of one year following acceptance of the improvements for maintenance
by the village board.
      2.   Bond Amount And Security:
         a.   Bond Amount: The penal amount of the final plat public
improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond shall be the higher of
the following:
            (1)   If some or all of the improvements have been installed,
inspected, and approved, one hundred five percent (105%) of the village
engineer's written estimate of the cost of installing all public improvements
not then installed and inspected, and five percent (5%) of the village
engineer's estimate for all the improvements installed as a retainage until
acceptance of the improvements by the village, plus five percent (5%) of the
village engineer's estimate for all improvements installed as a one year
guarantee for the materials and workmanship of all improvements. Also, the
developer must pay all plan review and inspection fees not paid and prepare all
as built plans and specifications not then submitted.
            (2)   If none of the improvements have been installed, one hundred
five percent (105%) of the village engineer's written estimate of the cost of
installing all public improvements, guaranteeing the materials and workmanship
of all the improvements. Also, the developer must pay all plan review and
inspection fees not paid and prepare as built plans and specifications not then
submitted.
         b.   Security: The final plat public improvement payment, performance
and workmanship bond shall be secured in one of the following ways:
            (1)   By posting a corporate surety bond with the owner or
developer as principal and an insurance company duly authorized to do business
in the state of Illinois as surety in a penal amount not less than that
specified in subsection A2a of this section. The owner or developer shall keep
such corporate surety bond in full force and effect until one year after
official action by the village board accepting the subdivision for maintenance
or until such later date as any written claim against the surety by the village
is finally resolved.
            (2)   By posting a cash escrow amount in a local bank or savings
and loan association in the amount specified in subsection A2a of this section
as adjusted by any releases authorized pursuant to subsection A4 of this
section.
            (3)   By posting an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount
specified in subsection A2a of this section from a local bank or savings and
loan association naming the village as a beneficiary thereof.
            (4)   By posting a corporate surety bond with the contractor for
the owner or developer as principal and an insurance company duly authorized to
do business in the state of Illinois as surety in a penal amount equal to the
owner's or developer's obligations as specified in subsection A2a of this
section. The contractor for the owner or developer shall keep such corporate
surety bond in full force and effect until one year after official action by
the village board accepting the subdivision for maintenance or until such later
date as any written claim against the surety by the village is finally
resolved.
      3.   Form Of Bond And Security Documents:
         a.   The form of the final plat public improvement payment,
performance and workmanship bond secured by corporate surety shall be as
required by the village board.
         b.   The form of the final plat public improvement payment,
performance and workmanship bond secured by cash escrow shall be as required by
the village board.
         c.   The form of the final plat public improvement payment,
performance and workmanship bond secured by an irrevocable letter of credit
shall be as required by the village board.
      4.   Releases From Escrow Accounts Posted As Security: As installation of
public improvements progresses, and is inspected and approved by the village
engineer, releases from such escrow accounts, including interest accumulated
thereon, may be authorized by the village engineer, in writing, based upon his
estimate of the cost for work completed, inspected and approved; provided,
however, no release shall be made which would reduce the escrow account to an
amount less than ten percent (10%) of the village engineer's original estimate
of the cost of installing all public improvements, paying all plan review and
inspection fees and preparing as built plans until all public improvements in
the subdivision have been accepted for maintenance by the village board, at
which time, the escrow account shall be released to an amount of not less than
five percent (5%) of the village engineer's original estimate of cost. Funds
then remaining in the escrow account may be released one year after official
action by the village board accepted the subdivision for maintenance or on such
later date as any written claim against the escrow account by the village is
finally resolved.
   B.   Adjacent Substandard Roadway Improvement Guarantee And Security:
      1.   Nature Of Obligation: Any owner, developer or subdivider developing
a subdivision bordering on one or more roadways is obligated to contribute one-
half (1/2) the cost of improving such roadway(s) on all streets. The obligation
shall endure for ten (10) years from the date the final plat is recorded
unless:
         a.   The developer or subdivider builds the half of the street
adjacent to his development. In which case, the developer shall have no
obligation; or
         b.   The village obtains the right of way and adjacent substandard
roadway improvement guarantee and security for the roadway opposite the
development. In which case, the developer or subdivider's obligation shall be
limited to five (5) years from the date the final plat is recorded.
      2.   Guarantee And Security:
         a.   Security: The adjacent substandard roadway improvement guarantee
shall be secured in one of the following ways:
            (1)   By posting a corporate surety bond with the owner or
developer as principal and an insurance company duly authorized to do business
in the state of Illinois as surety in a penal amount not less than that
determined by subsection B1 of this section. The owner or developer shall keep
such corporate surety bond in full force and effect until one year after
official action by the village board accepting the street for maintenance or
until such later date as any written claim against the surety by the village is
finally resolved.
            (2)   By posting a cash reserve account with the village in the
amount determined by subsection B1 of this section as adjusted by releases
authorized pursuant to subsection A4 of this section.
            (3)   By posting an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount
determined by subsection B1 of this section from a local bank or savings and
loan association naming the village as beneficiary thereof.
         b.   Form Of Guarantee:
            (1)   The form of the adjacent substandard roadway improvement
guarantee and security secured by corporate surety shall be as required by the
village board.
            (2)   The form of the adjacent substandard roadway improvement
guarantee secured by cash escrow is as required by the village board.
            (3)   The form of the adjacent substandard roadway improvement
guarantee and security secured by an irrevocable letter of credit is as
required by the village board. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-3A-5: AS BUILT PLANS:
   A.   Generally: After completion, inspection and approval of all public
improvements but prior to acceptance of the public improvements for
maintenance, the owner or developer shall submit all information required by
this section in the form specified. Failure of an owner or developer to provide
this information in the form required shall be sufficient grounds for the
village to refuse to release the subdivider from his or its final plat public
improvement payment, performance and workmanship bond; adjacent substandard
roadway improvement guarantee; or to release the security or reserve for such
bond, bonds or guarantee, and shall constitute a violation of this title.
   B.   Form: As built plans shall consist of photographic reproductions on
abilene, tracing cloth, or mylar, with a maximum size of twenty four inches by
thirty six inches (24" x 36").
   C.   Contents: As built plans shall provide the contents required for public
improvement engineering plans and specifications (specified in subsection
10-3A-2D of this article) but shall accurately depict the plans, profiles,
standard details and special details as actually installed, inspected and
approved, rather than proposed. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Principles Of Planning
10-4-2: Lots
10-4-3: Streets
10-4-1: PRINCIPLES OF PLANNING:
   A.   Design Considerations:
      1.   All subdivisions shall be designed to conform with the planning
principles, layout and design requirements of this section. These principles
and design requirements concern the general subdivision plan rather than
individual elements of the plan, and so express concepts rather than specific
standards.
      2.   Basic construction in the design of local street systems must
recognize the factors of: a) safety for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
b) efficiency of service for all users; c) livability or amenities, especially
as affected by traffic elements in the circulation system; and d) economy of
both construction and use of the land.
   B.   Principles Of Planning: Each of the following principles is an
elaboration on one or more of the factors listed in subsection A2 of this
section. The principles are not intended as absolute criteria, since instances
may appear where certain principles conflict. The principles should, therefore,
be used as guides to proper subdivision design.
      1.   Adequate vehicular and pedestrian access should be provided to all
parcels.
      2.   Local street systems should be designed to minimize through traffic
movements.
      3.   Street patterns should minimize out of the way vehicular traffic.
      4.   Local street systems should be logical and comprehensible, and
systems of street names and house numbers should be simple, consistent, and
understandable.
      5.   Elements in the local circulation system should not have to rely on
extensive traffic regulation in order to function efficiently and safely.
      6.   Planning and construction of residential streets should clearly
indicate their function.
      7.   The local street system should be designed for a relatively uniform
low volume of street traffic.
      8.   Local streets should be designed to discourage excessive speeds.
      9.   Pedestrian/vehicular conflict points should be minimized.
      10.   A minimum amount of space should be devoted to street uses.
      11.   There should be a minimum number of intersections.
      12.   The arrangement of local streets should permit economical and
practical patterns, shapes, and sizes of development parcels.
      13.   Local streets should be related to topography from the standpoint
of both economics, drainage, and amenities.
      14.   The street and pedestrian circulation pattern in a new residential
subdivision should be compatible with the village land use and street plan.
      15.   Subdivision layout should minimize the overall length of the
streets.
      16.   A residential area should be conveniently accessible from major or
collector streets.
      17.   Access points to major and collector street facilities should be
limited in number given special design consideration and, whenever possible,
located where other features are not competing for driver attention.
      18.   Driveway entrances should be prohibited on major streets and,
whenever possible, on collector streets.
      19.   Public utilities should be existing or proposed by the developer of
a size adequate to serve the proposed subdivision and any other future
development they may be required to service. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-4-2: LOTS:
   A.   Lot Layout:
      1.   Subdivisions shall consist solely and exclusively of lots of record,
outlots, easements, public rights of way, and public improvements.
      2.   All proposed lots of record shall front on a public street or
roadway.
      3.   All proposed lots of record shall meet or exceed the lot size,
dimension and area requirements of any applicable zoning regulations.
      4.   Outlots may not be used, developed, built on, or improved except in
connection with a lot.
      5.   Rear, side, and front yard easements shall be dedicated to the
village for use by the village and private utility companies for gas,
electricity, cable TV, water, storm sewer, etc., as provided herein.
      6.   Where residential lots are platted abutting a major street, the
"backup" treatment shall be used and a "no access" strip depicted on those lots
adjacent to the major street.
   B.   Boundary Standards: Boundaries of the subdivision shall be drawn to
meet or exceed the following standards:
      1.   Error of closure of boundary lines survey shall not exceed one foot
(1') for each five thousand feet (5,000') of perimeter surveyed;
      2.   Angular error shall not exceed plus or minus twenty (±20) seconds;
      3.   Lot line dimensions shall be shown in feet and hundredths; and
      4.   Angles occurring in any lot line between lot corners shall be shown
in degrees, minutes, and seconds. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-4-3: STREETS:
   A.   General Requirements: All subdivisions shall be designed so the
proposed street system conforms to the following standards:
      1.   Extends major and collector streets through the proposed
subdivision.
      2.   Locates and aligns local and cul-de-sac streets so that use by
through traffic is discouraged.
      3.   Avoids centerline offsets of less than one hundred fifty feet (150')
from other streets or roadways.
      4.   Where the angle of deflection in horizontal centerlines exceeds five
degrees (5°), a curve shall be inserted with a radius of not less than the
following dimensions, depending on the classification of the street involved:
         a.   Major or collector street: Five hundred feet (500').
         b.   Local street: One hundred feet (100').
      5.   So that not more than two (2) streets intersect at any point and so
that the angle of intersection of centerlines is not less than eighty degrees
(80°) nor more than one hundred degrees (100°).
      6.   So that cul-de-sacs do not exceed one thousand two hundred feet
(1,200') in length or have more than fifteen (15) lots fronting thereon,
whichever imposes the more demanding standard.
      7.   Encourage safe and efficient traffic flow and provide sufficient
vehicular storage space for stopping and turning movements so as not to
conflict with traffic at intersecting streets or driveway entrances.
      8.   So that an intersecting street with an eventual outlet to a major or
collector street intersects from each direction within every one thousand two
hundred feet (1,200') and a maximum distance with continuous lot frontage is
one thousand eight hundred feet (1,800').
   B.   Right Of Way Dedication: All streets and roadways proposed within the
confines of a subdivision shall be located in a dedicated public rights of way
as required by this subsection.
      1.   Interior Streets: Subdivisions shall be designed so all interior
streets are located within dedicated public rights of way with a minimum width
of sixty feet (60') or as otherwise required by the village board. (Ord. 1146,
7-5-1995)
      2.   Exterior Streets: Subdivisions shall be designed so that the
subdivider provides dedicated public rights of way with a minimum width of
sixty feet (60') or as otherwise required by the village board. (Ord. 1146, 7-
5-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Supplemental Dedication: Where the street design requirements of
this title require the provision of turning lanes, turning radii, center
median, traffic control devices or other installation which cannot be installed
within the right of way otherwise required by this title without the
elimination or conflict between such features and other public improvements,
the subdivider shall dedicate such additional rights of way as are necessary to
accommodate all such improvements. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
   C.   Pavement Structure: Structural strength shall be determined in
accordance with design manual publication 1217, IDOT bureau of local roads and
streets, and assuming an IBR is a minimum of 3.
   D.   Street Width: Pavement width shall be twenty four feet (24') or as
otherwise required by the village board. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
   E.   Applicability Of Standards Manual To Certain Elements: Standards
related to materials and methods, cul-de-sac terminus, vertical gradients, curb
and gutter, and specifications, special provisions, and standard details shall
be governed by chapter 4 of the "Manual Of Practice For The Design Of Public
Improvements In The Town Of Normal".
   F.   Construction Standards: All subdivisions shall be designed and
constructed to conform with the principles, requirements, standards and
specifications enumerated in the following chapters of "A Manual Of Practice
For The Design Of Public Improvements In The Town Of Normal":
      Chapter 2, protection and restoration.
      Chapter 4, design and construction standards for streets.
      Chapter 5, design and construction standards for sidewalks and pedestrian
ways.
      Chapter 6, design and construction standards for storm sewers, drainage
ways and stormwater detention facilities.
      Chapter 8, design and construction standards for water distribution and
supply system; except, that the second sentence in section 8.03, paragraph H
shall be deleted and the following inserted in lieu thereof: "All pipe shall be
PVC class SDR 21", and; except, that paragraph 42-2.05 on page 79 shall be
deleted.
      Chapter 9, design and construction standards for street lights.
      Chapter 10, design and construction standards for bridges & culverts.
      Chapter 11, design and construction standards for railroad crossings.
      Chapter 12, design and construction standards for other public utilities.
(Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION OR CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU
SECTION:
10-5-1: Park And Recreation Areas Required
10-5-2: Contribution Or Combination Of Land And Contribution
10-5-3: Density Formula
10-5-4: Reservation Of Additional Land
10-5-5: Combining With Adjoining Developments
10-5-6: Topography And Grading
10-5-7: Improved Sites
10-5-1: PARK AND RECREATION AREAS REQUIRED:
   A.   Generally: All subdivision of property with a residential zoning
classification shall be designed so that park and recreational areas are
provided in the manner and to the extent prescribed by this section, so as to
accommodate the open space and recreational needs of those persons living on or
who may live within the confines of the subdivision.
   B.   Dedication Requirements: As a condition of approval of a final plat of
a subdivision, each owner, subdivider, or developer of property with a
residential zoning classification shall be required to dedicate land for park
and recreational purposes to serve the immediate and future needs of the
residents of the development, or to contribute cash in lieu of said actual land
dedication, or to make a combination of cash contribution and land dedication
at the election of the village in accordance with the following criteria and
formula:
      1.   Requirement And Population Table: The ultimate density of a proposed
development bears directly on the amount of land required for park purposes.
The total requirement shall be four (4) acres of land per one thousand (1,000)
of ultimate population. Projected population is based upon the maximum number
of dwelling units per acre permitted and the projected number of occupants per
unit (see sections 10-5-3 and 10-5-4 of this chapter).
      2.   Location: The comprehensive plan and official map, as adopted by the
village board, shall be used as a guideline in locating sites. A central
location which will serve equally the entire development is most desirable. The
area of all or a portion of retention and detention facilities included within
a proposed preliminary subdivision plan may be considered by the village to
satisfy some or all of the land dedication requirements contained herein.
      3.   Cash Contribution Alternatives: In the event the village should
determine that a cash contribution shall be made by the owner, subdivider or
developer in lieu of land dedication, the village shall apply the population
ratio of 0.4 acre of land for one hundred (100) ultimate population within the
development or area to be subdivided times the fair market value as established
in section
10-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-5-2: CONTRIBUTION OR COMBINATION OF LAND AND CONTRIBUTION:
   A.   Authorized: When the amount of land the owner, subdivider, or developer
would otherwise be required to dedicate for park purposes is calculated to be
less than four (4) acres in size, the village may determine that the available
land is inappropriate for park and recreation purposes, and the owner,
subdivider, or developer may be required to pay a cash contribution in lieu of
the land dedication or a combination of land and cash in lieu of land, at the
election of the village. The cash contribution in lieu of park and recreational
land dedication shall be held in trust by the village solely for the
acquisition and development of park and recreational land has hereinbefore
classified, which may be available to serve the immediate or future needs of
the residents of that subdivision or development or for the improvement of
other existing local park and recreational land which already serves such
areas.
   B.   Fair Market Value: The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be based
on the "fair market value" of the acres of land in the area improved, as
specified herein, that otherwise would have been dedicated as park and
recreational sites. The developer shall submit an appraisal showing the "fair
market value" of such improved land in the area of his development or other
evidence thereof, and final determination of said "fair market value" per acre
of such improved land shall be made by the village based upon such information
submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other sources which may be
submitted to the village board.
   C.   Criteria For Requiring Dedication And Fee: There will be situations in
subdivisions when a combination of land dedication and a contribution in lieu
of land are both necessary. These occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park or school site. That portion of the land within the
subdivision falling within the park location shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated.
      2.   A major part of the local park or recreation site has already been
acquired and only a small portion of the land is needed from the development to
complete the site. The remaining portion shall be required by dedication, and a
cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-5-3: DENSITY FORMULA:
The estimated population per dwelling unit shall be 3.00 persons per dwelling
unit when calculating the amount of required dedication for acres of land and
any combination of land dedication and cash contribution. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-5-4: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the comprehensive plan or the standards of the village call for a larger
amount of park and recreational land in a particular subdivision than the
developer is required to dedicate, that land needed beyond the developer's
contribution shall be reserved for subsequent purchase by the village;
provided, that such acquisition is made within one year from the date of the
final plat. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-5-5: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision is less than forty (40) acres, public open space which is
to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with dedications from
adjoining developments in order to produce usable recreational areas without
hardship on a particular developer. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-5-6: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The slope, topography and geology of the dedicated site as well as its
surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on site
dedicated for park and recreational uses shall not differ greatly from
surrounding land. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
10-5-7: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, water, sewer and streets (including enclosed drainage and curb and
gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provisions
made therefor. (Ord. 1146, 7-5-1995)
 
