CITY CODE
of
JERSEYVILLE, ILLINOIS
2010
Code current through:
Ord. 1819, passed 11-12-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Jerseyville, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 1819, passed November 12, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1563
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
JERSEYVILLE, ILLINOIS, EXCEPT THE CURRENT ZONING CODE WHICH SHALL REMAIN IN
FULL FORCE AND EFFECT; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT
INCLUDED THEREIN, EXCEPT AS HEREIN EXPRESSLY PROVIDED; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER
OF AMENDING SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING WHEN THIS ORDINANCE SHALL
BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF JERSEYVILLE, ILLINOIS:
   Section 1. That this code of ordinances consisting of chapters 1 through 10,
12, and 13, is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Jerseyville City Code," and
shall be treated and considered as a new and original comprehensive code of all
city ordinances, through and including this ordinance no. 1563 enacted this
11th  day of  January , 2011, as passed and approved by the corporate
authorities, excepting those ordinances which by reference thereto are
expressly saved from repeal or continued in force and effect for any purpose,
as specifically provided in title 1, chapter 2, hereof, and excepting the
current zoning code, known as ordinance no. 402 and amendments thereto, which
shall continue in full force and effect.
   Section 2. That such repeal shall not be construed to revive any ordinance
or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is
repealed by this ordinance, nor shall it repeal any administrative ordinances
or resolutions of the city council not in conflict or inconsistent with the
provisions of such code, nor shall it repeal any ordinance accepting or
dedicating any plat or subdivision in the city.
   Section 3. That any and all amendments or additions to this code, when
passed in accordance with section
1-1-4, are deemed incorporated in this code, and future reference to the
"Jerseyville city code" shall include all amendments and additions.
   Section 4. The official copy of the Jerseyville city code shall be kept on
file in the office of the city clerk. It shall be the express duty of the city
clerk or someone authorized by said clerk to update the official copy of the
code and all additional copies of the code, wherever located, whenever the code
is amended by any action of the corporate authorities. The official copy of the
code shall be available for inspection and use by the general public, only at
city hall under direction of the city clerk.
   Section 5. That this ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage, approval and publication in pamphlet form, pursuant to law.
PASSED and APPROVED this  11th  day of  January , 2011.
   YVONNE HARTMANN - MAYOR
ATTEST:
CATHERINE L. WARD - CITY CLERK
 
RECORD OF VOTE:
         Aye  Nay  Absent
HARTMANN x
JONES    x
MACIAS   x
PERDUN   x
RUSSELL  x
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
JERSEYVILLE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Jurisdiction For Issuance Of Building Permits And Enforcement Of
Building And Nuisance Codes
1-1-4: Amendments
1-1-5: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Jerseyville. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the JERSEYVILLE CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-4 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2010 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2010 Code)
1-1-3: JURISDICTION FOR ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND ENFORCEMENT OF
BUILDING AND NUISANCE CODES:
   A.   Pursuant to agreement with the county, the city hereby adopts authority
and control over the area within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the city
limits for purposes of issuing building permits and building code and nuisance
code enforcement, and receiving all fines, penalties, fees, costs, and expenses
in relation to the exercise of such authority.
   B.   The city will enforce all county building codes previously adopted on
June 10, 2008, as county code of ordinances 1, and the county nuisance code
which is part 4 of said ordinance 1, as amended by part 4, chapter 1, section
103.5, "Jersey County Fee Schedule", chapter 1, "Regulating Nuisances" only,
previously adopted on October 14, 2008, official copies of which are on file
with the city clerk; provided, however, that all references in said ordinances
to "county code administrator" are hereby replaced by "city building official",
all references to "Jersey County state's attorney" are hereby replaced by "city
attorney", and references to the "county" having access to all remedies and
receiving all fines, penalties, fees, costs, or expenses shall be changed to
the "city", and said fines and all other monies received shall go into the city
general fund.
   C.   The one and one-half (11/2) mile limit shall be as shown on the
official city map, as adopted with the city comprehensive plan on file with the
city clerk, and as further revised in the future resulting from any annexation
of land into the city limits. (Ord. 1528, 12-16-2008)
1-1-4: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (2010 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Ordinances Repealed And Ordinances Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code are hereby
repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by necessary
implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses
contained in the following sections), and excluding the following ordinances
which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances;
ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and
other ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations; contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city; and all special
ordinances. (2010 Code)
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action, suit,
prosecution or proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances
repealed or the term of office of any person holding office at the time these
ordinances take effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect
of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed or superseded. (1996 Code § 1-6;
amd. 2010 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2010 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2010 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the city council may be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provisions of this code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements
adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience
and general welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater
restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the
code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be
deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Computation Of Time: The time within which any act provided by law is
to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or a holiday as defined or fixed in
any statute now or hereafter in force in the state, and then it shall also be
excluded. If the day succeeding such Saturday, Sunday or holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Jerseyville".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant
to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1996 Code §
1-2; amd. 2010 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto and unless further defined elsewhere in this code:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Jerseyville, county of Jersey, state of Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL, COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city
of Jerseyville.
CODE: The city code of the city of Jerseyville.
CORPORATE LIMITS, OR CITY LIMITS: The legal boundaries of the city, except as
otherwise provided by law.
COUNTY: The county of Jersey, state of Illinois.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city.
MONTH: A calendar month.
MUNICIPAL OR FISCAL YEAR: Shall commence on the first day of May of each year.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Shall include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, company, limited liability
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
political subdivision, or any other legal entity or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real, personal and mixed property.
QUORUM: A majority of the members of a board, commission or committee holding
office, unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Includes streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts
and all other public ways in the city, and shall include all areas thereof
embraced between the property lines and dedicated to the public use.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALE, WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically
defined, shall be understood and held to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for
purposes of resale, as distinguished from a retail dealer who sells in smaller
quantities direct to the consumer.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1996 Code §§ 1-2, 2-1; amd. 2010 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Summons And Arrest
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Criminal Offenses: Except as prohibited by state law or where another
penalty is prescribed therefor by this code, any violation of the provisions of
this code may be prosecuted in the circuit court by information or by complaint
sworn to, as criminal offenses. Such prosecutions shall conform to the rules of
criminal procedure, and the charge shall give notice that it is a "criminal
proceeding". Upon conviction, a person violating this code shall be punished by
imprisonment in a place other than a penitentiary for a term not to exceed six
(6) months or be fined not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), or
both.
   B.   Civil Cases: Where the prosecution of violations of this code as
misdemeanors is not permitted by state law, violations of this code shall be
triable as civil cases. Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city
any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or
whenever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense, the violation
of any such provision of this code or any ordinance shall be punished by a fine
of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (1996 Code § 1-8; amd.
2010 Code)
   C.   Community Service: A penalty for each offense may include a requirement
that the offending party perform some reasonable public service work such as,
but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or upon public highways
or performing maintenance of public facilities. A violation hereof may be
established by a preponderance of the evidence. (2010 Code)
   D.   Each Day Of Violation A Separate Offense: Each day any wilful violation
of any provision of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense. (1996 Code § 1-8)
   E.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsections A
and B of this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that
established by state statute for the same offense. (2010 Code)
   F.   Costs And Expenses: In addition to the fines referred to in other
sections of this code which may be levied in the event of a violation of any
provision of this code, the city may also levy a charge for attorney fees,
court costs and other expenses against the violator not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 1403, 6-24-2003)
   G.   Disposition Of Funds: All fines, penalties, and forfeitures for the
violation of ordinances, when collected, and all other monies collected for the
city shall be paid into the city treasury at such times and in such manner as
may be prescribed by ordinance.
   H.   Credit For Imprisonment: Any person incarcerated on a charge of
violating a bailable municipal ordinance who does not supply bail and against
whom a fine is levied upon conviction of such offense shall be allowed a credit
of five dollars ($5.00) for each day so incarcerated prior to conviction, but
such credit shall not exceed the amount of the fine levied. (1996 Code § 1-8)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: SUMMONS AND ARREST:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, in all actions for
the violation of any municipal ordinance, the first process shall be a summons
or a warrant. A warrant for the arrest of an accused person may issue upon the
affidavit of any person that an ordinance has been violated, and that the
person making the complaint has reasonable grounds to believe that the party
charged is guilty thereof. Every person arrested upon a warrant, without
unnecessary delay, shall be taken before the proper officer for trial. (1996
Code § 1-9)
   B.   In all actions for violation of any municipal ordinance where the fine
would not be in excess of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and no jail
term could be imposed, service of summons may be made by the city clerk by
certified mail, return receipt requested, whether service is to be within or
without the state. (1996 Code § 1-9.1; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   The county sheriff may serve any process or make any arrest in the city
that any city officer is authorized to make under this code or any ordinance
passed under this code. Police officers may serve summonses for violations of
ordinances occurring within the city. (1996 Code § 1-9.2; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   The building official, animal control officer, public safety officer,
and code enforcement officer may serve any citation, ticket, summons or warrant
related to any violation of any city ordinance. (2010 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2010 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1996 Code
§ 1-10)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Composition; Election And Terms; Vacancies
1-5-2: Powers And Duties
1-5-3: Mayor
1-5-4: Bond Of Commissioners
1-5-5: Meetings And Rules
1-5-6: Ordinances
1-5-7: Committees
1-5-1: COMPOSITION; ELECTION AND TERMS; VACANCIES:
The city council shall consist of the mayor and four (4) commissioners elected
for four (4) year terms. Vacancies occurring in the city council shall be
filled by the remaining members as provided by state law 1 . (1996 Code §§ 2-
21, 2-22)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/4-3-4.
1-5-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city council shall be the governing body of the city and shall have the
powers and duties prescribed by state law. (1996 Code § 2-21)
1-5-3: MAYOR:
   A.   Enforcement Of Laws: The mayor is hereby declared to be a conservator
of the peace, and the mayor shall see that the laws of the state and the
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city are enforced. (1996
Code § 2-144)
   B.   Action On Licenses:
      1.   Issuance: Except as otherwise expressly provided, the mayor shall
decide upon all applications for a license required by this code or other city
ordinance, and shall grant or reject the application, but it shall be the
mayor's duty to grant all such applications when they are in accordance with
state law and the ordinances of the city, and the applicant is qualified
according to state law and the ordinances of the city to receive the license.
      2.   Revocation; Appeals: The mayor shall have power, and it shall be the
mayor's duty, to revoke any license granted by the mayor for a violation of
state law or the ordinances of the city pertaining to the licensed business, or
for gross misconduct on the part of the licensee; however, the party aggrieved
may appeal to the city council at the next regular or special meeting, when, if
a majority of the members of the city council shall so vote, the license shall
again become valid and of full force for the unexpired term thereof. (1996 Code
§ 2-145)
1-5-4: BOND OF COMMISSIONERS:
Each commissioner shall give a bond in such a sum as may be determined by the
city council, which bond shall not be less than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00). The sureties on such bond shall be approved by the city council
and filed with the city clerk. (1996 Code § 2-54; amd. 2010 Code)
1-5-5: MEETINGS AND RULES:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The regular meetings of the city council shall be held on every
other Tuesday in the city council room of the city hall; however, if the
meeting date should occur on any date declared by the state to be a holiday,
the meeting shall be on a date to be decided by the city council. (1996 Code §
2-31)
      2.   At the last meeting of the calendar year, the city council shall
prepare a schedule showing all of its proposed regular meetings for the next
calendar year. The schedule shall state the regular dates, times and places of
the proposed regular meetings of the city council. The city council shall
provide copies of the schedule of meetings required by this subsection A2 to
any news medium that has filed an annual request for such notice. (1996 Code §
2-31; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Special meetings of the city council may be called by the mayor or
any two (2) commissioners upon a written notice of not less than forty eight
(48) hours to every member of the city council.
      2.   Notices required by subsection B1 of this section may be served by
any member of the police department or by any other city employee, and it shall
be the duty of the city clerk, when given copies of the notices, to serve them
or to cause them to be served immediately.
      3.   Public notice of a special meeting of the city council shall also be
given at least forty eight (48) hours before the special meeting by posting a
written notice on the door of the city council room in the city hall.
      4.   A notice of special meetings shall be provided to any news medium
that has filed an annual request for such notice.
      5.   Public notice of any special meeting held in the event of a bona
fide emergency shall be given as soon as practicable, but in any event prior to
the holding of such meeting, to any news medium which has filed an annual
request for notice, in the same manner as given to the members of the city
council, provided such news medium has given the city an address or telephone
number within the territorial jurisdiction of the city at which such notice may
be given. (1996 Code § 2-32; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall preside at all regular and special
meetings of the city council. In the absence of the mayor, the commissioner of
accounts and finances shall be the presiding officer. (1996 Code § 2-33)
   D.   Voting: The mayor and each commissioner shall have the right to vote on
all questions coming before the council. (1996 Code § 2-34)
   E.   Rules Of Procedure: The city council shall adopt rules governing its
order of business and prescribing the manner in which legislation shall be
considered, which rules shall not be inconsistent with state law, this code and
other city ordinances. (1996 Code § 2-37)
   F.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any
regular or special meeting of the city council. Any person violating this
subsection shall be punished as prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this title, and may be summarily ejected from the city council room
and the city hall. (1996 Code § 2-38)
1-5-6: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Style Of Ordinances: The city council shall style all ordinances
proposed to be adopted as follows: "Be it ordained by the City Council of the
City of Jerseyville". (1996 Code § 2-35)
   B.   Publication And Effective Date:
      1.   The council shall cause all ordinances of the city which impose any
fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture, or make any appropriation, to be
published in one of the following forms:
         a.   Be printed or published in book or pamphlet form, published by
authority of the city council. (1996 Code § 2-36)
         b.   Be published at least once, within thirty (30) days after
passage, in one or more newspapers published in the city, or if no newspaper is
published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation
within the city. (1996 Code § 2-36; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   No ordinance required by subsection B1 of this section to be
published shall become effective until ten (10) days after its publication.
      3.   All ordinances not required by subsection B1 of this section to be
published shall take effect from and after their passage, unless otherwise
provided. (1996 Code § 2-36)
1-5-7: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees: There shall be such standing committees of the
city council as the city council shall from time to time establish by
resolution. Each standing committee shall consist of three (3) members of the
city council who shall be appointed by the mayor annually.
   B.   Special Committees: There shall be such special committees of the city
council as the city council shall deem necessary and as established by
resolution. Each special committee shall consist of three (3) members of the
city council who shall be appointed by the mayor. (1996 Code § 2-23)
CHAPTER 6
CITY DEPARTMENTS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Departments Established
1-6-2: Authority Of Council Over Departments
1-6-3: Department Heads
1-6-4: Officers And Employees Of Departments
1-6-5: Department Of Public Affairs
1-6-6: Department Of Accounts And Finances
1-6-7: Department Of Public Health And Safety
1-6-8: Department Of Streets And Public Improvements
1-6-9: Department Of Public Property
1-6-1: DEPARTMENTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The executive and administrative powers and duties of the city
government shall be divided into five (5) departments, which shall be as
follows:
      1.   The department of public affairs.
      2.   The department of accounts and finances.
      3.   The department of public health and safety.
      4.   The department of streets and public improvements.
      5.   The department of public property. (1996 Code § 2-50)
   B.   The mayor shall be the superintendent of the department of public
affairs. (1996 Code § 2-50; amd. 2010 Code)
1-6-2: AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL OVER DEPARTMENTS:
The city council shall, by ordinance, determine the powers and duties of and to
be performed by each department, shall prescribe the powers and duties of
officers and employees and may assign employees to one or more of the
departments. The city council may also require an officer or employee to
perform duties in two (2) or more departments and may make such other rules and
regulations as may be necessary or proper for the efficient and economical
conduct of the business of the city. (1996 Code § 2-51)
1-6-3: DEPARTMENT HEADS:
The city council shall have the right, power and authority to appoint and
discharge the heads of all the city departments subordinate to the five (5)
departments established in this chapter. The chief of police is to be appointed
by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. The public works director is to
be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council. (1996 Code § 2-52;
amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1743, 4-23-2019)
1-6-4: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF DEPARTMENTS:
Except as otherwise specifically provided, all officers, assistants and
employees of each of the respective departments established in this chapter,
except department heads and those provided by this code or other city
ordinances to be elected or appointed by the city council, shall be appointed
by the commissioner of each of the respective departments, and may be
discharged by the commissioner when, in the commissioner's judgment, the
efficient conduct of city affairs shall demand it. (1996 Code § 2-53)
1-6-5: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS:
   A.   Scope Of Mayor's Office: The mayor, as chief executive officer, shall
be generally charged with and responsible for the proper conduct of city
affairs and the enforcement of all ordinances of the city. (1996 Code § 2-62)
   B.   General Duties And Authority Of Mayor: The mayor shall have and
exercise all the powers and perform all the duties that are or may be
prescribed by law or by city ordinance. The mayor shall be the chief executive
officer and representative of the city; shall sign all contracts and warrants
on behalf of the city, and all licenses issued by the city; and shall cause to
be prepared and published all statements and reports required to be prepared
and published by law or by ordinance or resolution of the city council. (1996
Code § 2-63)
   C.   Mayor As Commissioner Of Public Affairs; Reports To City Council: The
mayor shall be the commissioner of public affairs and the superintendent of the
department of public affairs, and shall report to the city council for its
action in all matters requiring the attention of any department. (1996 Code §
2-64)
   D.   Animal And Nuisance Control: The commissioner of public affairs and the
chief of police shall have supervision over the animal control officer and the
code enforcement/health officer and all duties assigned to them. (1996 Code §
2-123; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Departments, Officers, Employees, Facilities, And Apparatus:
Supervision of the city attorney, the police department, the fire department,
the public works director in conjunction with other applicable commissioners as
provided elsewhere in this chapter, and all other officers, employees,
facilities, and apparatus used, which are not specifically assigned to some
other city department, is hereby assigned to the department of public affairs.
(Ord. 1743, 4-23-2019)
1-6-6: DEPARTMENT OF ACCOUNTS AND FINANCES:
   A.   Powers And Duties Of Commissioner:
      1.   Vice President Of Council: The commissioner of accounts and finances
shall be vice president of the city council and, in case of vacancy in the
office of the mayor or the absence or inability of the mayor, shall perform the
duties of the mayor. (1996 Code § 2-73)
      2.   General Duties And Authority:
         a.   The commissioner of accounts and finances shall be the
superintendent of the department of accounts and finances and shall have
supervision over and direction of all accounts and finances of the city, and
shall have charge of and supervision and direction over all records of the city
and all officers, boards and departments insofar as the accounts and records of
the city are concerned.
         b.   The commissioner of accounts and finances shall have supervision
over all public utilities and all persons rendering service insofar as the
negotiating and supervision of franchises, contracts and grants made or granted
by the city. The commissioner of accounts and finances shall have charge,
control and management of the connections of all electric wiring to and with
the wires of any public utility corporation or person rendering service under
any franchise, grant or contract and shall issue permits therefor.
         c.   The commissioner of accounts and finances shall have supervision
and control over the preparation of the annual budget and appropriation
ordinance by all departments, including, but not limited to, the parks and
recreation department and the Jerseyville Public Library. (1996 Code § 2-74)
      3.   Reports And Accounts Of Other Departments: The commissioner of
accounts and finances shall cause proper accounts and records to be kept and
proper reports to be made by the officers or departments of the city. (1996
Code § 2-75)
      4.   Audits: The commissioner of accounts and finances shall audit or
cause to be audited at frequent intervals, the accounts and records of officers
or employees of the city who may receive or disburse money. (1996 Code § 2-76)
      5.   Inspection Of Records; Reports: The commissioner of accounts and
finances shall inspect or cause to be inspected all records or accounts
required to be kept in any of the offices or departments of the city, insofar
as the accounts and finances of the city are concerned, and shall, from time to
time, report the results of his inspections to the city council with such
recommendations as he shall see fit to make. (1996 Code § 2-77)
      6.   Inspection Of Claims And Obligations; Report: The commissioner of
accounts and finances shall examine, or cause to be examined, and report to the
city council upon all bills, accounts, payrolls, demands and claims before they
are acted upon, unless otherwise provided by law or ordinance. (1996 Code § 2-
78)
      7.   Collection Of Obligations Due City: The commissioner of accounts and
finances shall collect, or cause to be collected, all claims, demands, license
fees, inspection fees, franchise taxes, fines, penalties, forfeitures, rentals
or monies which may be due or become due to the city. Except as specifically
noted to the contrary and, in appropriate cases, in addition to the charges in
other sections of this code, if any such monies due the city are not paid
within thirty (30) days from the date of the statement or from the date demand
is otherwise made, the debtor shall pay one and one-half percent (11/2%)
interest on the balance due per month. If the balance is not paid within ninety
(90) days from the date of the statement or from the date demand is otherwise
made, said matter shall be turned over to the city attorney for collection.
(Ord. 1175, 4-23-1996; amd. 2010 Code)
      8.   Report On Delinquent Remittance Reports: The commissioner of
accounts and finances shall report to the city council any failure of any
officer or department to make a report or the failure of any person to pay
monies due the city, with such recommendations in relation thereto as the
commissioner may deem proper. (1996 Code § 2-80)
      9.   Adoption Of Government Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 34
(GASB 34) Reporting Model Effective May 1, 2004: The city hereby adopts
government accounting standards board statement no. 34 (GASB 34) reporting
model effective May 1, 2004, in accordance with appendix B attached to the
ordinance codified herein, and further adopts a threshold of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00) for depreciation reporting purposes. (Ord. 1467, 5-24-2005)
   B.   Officers And Employees Of Department: The city treasurer, the city
clerk and all employees connected with such offices such as bookkeepers and
accountants are hereby assigned to the department of accounts and finances and
shall be under the direction and supervision of the superintendent thereof.
(1996 Code § 2-81)
1-6-7: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY:
   A.   Powers And Duties Of Commissioner:
      1.   General Duties And Authority: The commissioner of public health and
safety shall be the superintendent of the department of public health and
safety and shall have supervision and direction over all officers and employees
assigned to the department. (1996 Code § 2-89)
      2.   Enforcement Duties: The commissioner of public health and safety
shall enforce, or cause to be enforced, the laws of the state and the
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city relating to public
health and safety and to buildings. (1996 Code § 2-90)
      3.   Departmental Buildings: The commissioner of the department of public
health and safety shall have charge of and supervision over the construction
and repairs of all buildings assigned to the department of public health and
safety. (1996 Code § 2-91)
      4.   Purchases: The commissioner of the department of public health and
safety shall have supervision of all purchases of apparatus and supplies for
the department of public health and safety. (1996 Code § 2-92)
      5.   Supervision Of Combined Water And Sewer Department And Solid Waste
And Recycling:
         a.   The commissioner of the department of public health and safety
shall have supervision of the combined water and sewer department and solid
waste and recycling. (1996 Code § 2-93)
         b.   The public works director shall be the superintendent of water
and sewer and shall report directly to the commissioner of public health and
safety on all matters concerning the water and sewer department. (2010 Code)
   B.   City Health And Sanitation: The sanitary condition of the city and the
control and supervision of contagious diseases are assigned to the department
of public health and safety and will be under the supervision thereof, unless
otherwise provided by law or ordinance. (1996 Code § 2-94; amd. Ord. 1743, 4-
23-2019)
1-6-8: DEPARTMENT OF STREETS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Duties And Authority Of Commissioner Generally:
      1.   The commissioner of streets and public improvements shall be the
superintendent of the department of streets and public improvements and shall
have charge of and supervision over, and direction of, the cleaning and
sprinkling of streets, avenues, alleys and public places; the construction and
reconstruction of all street improvements, sidewalks, crosswalks, drains,
ditches, gutters, culverts, crossing bridges, viaducts, subways and other
improvements, and of the repair thereof, except when such improvements or
repairs are paid for by special assessment.
      2.   The commissioner of streets and public improvements shall have
supervision of the lighting of all public ways, grounds and buildings. (1996
Code § 2-104)
   B.   Other Duties:
      1.   Review Of Costs; Approval Of Improvements: The commissioner of
streets and public improvements shall approve the cost estimates of the public
works director which may be made from time to time, or approve the cost of work
over which the department has supervision, as the work progresses, and shall
recommend to the city council the acceptance of the work done or improvements
made, when completed, according to contract. (1996 Code § 2-106; amd. 2010
Code)
      2.   Encroachments: The commissioner of streets and public improvements
shall have charge of enforcing provisions of this code and other city
ordinances relating to street obstructions, billboards, telephone poles,
electric light poles and street corner wastepaper receptacles. (1996 Code § 2-
107; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Purchases: The commissioner of streets and public improvements shall
have supervision over the purchase of materials and supplies for construction
or repair work, or for use by the department or the personnel assigned thereto.
(1996 Code § 2-108)
      4.   Employment Of Laborers: The commissioner of streets and public
improvements shall have the power to employ and discharge all laborers required
for the work to be carried on by the department. (1996 Code § 2-109)
   C.   Officers And Functions Under Control Of Department: The public works
director, the superintendent of streets and all persons employed by the city in
the maintenance, construction or repair of streets, alleys and sidewalks are
hereby assigned to the department of streets and public improvements and shall
be under the supervision of the commissioner of streets and public
improvements. (1996 Code § 2-105; amd. Ord. 1743, 4-23-2019)
1-6-9: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   General Duties And Authority Of Commissioner: The commissioner of
public property shall be the superintendent of public property and shall have
charge and custody of all buildings, real estate of the city and all other
physical property, other than records, not assigned to some other commissioner,
including the city hall, city parks and playgrounds, and Oak Grove Cemetery,
and all property and apparatus in each. (1996 Code § 2-119; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Purchases: The commissioner of public property shall have supervision
over the purchasing of all materials and supplies for the department of public
property and personnel as assigned to that department. (1996 Code § 2-121)
   C.   Refuse Disposal: The commissioner of public property shall have
supervision over the removal and discharge of refuse and of all public refuse
disposal sites. (1996 Code § 2-124; amd. Ord. 1547, 2-23-2010)
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Residency Requirements
1-7-2: Bonds
1-7-3: Compensation
1-7-4: Remittance Of Collected Funds
1-7-5: Books And Records To Successor
1-7-6: Promulgation Of Personnel Regulations
1-7-7: Social Security
1-7-8: Retirement
1-7-9: Resolution “A” And Collective Bargaining Agreements Adopted By Reference
1-7-1: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Officers: If any city officer shall move from the city or become absent
therefrom for three (3) months, the office shall thereby become vacant, if so
declared by the city council by resolution. (1996 Code § 2-135)
   B.   Employees:
      1.   All full time employees of the city, except members of the
policeman's benevolent labor committee, which are governed by a collective
bargaining agreement, are to reside within the city limits. New employees will
have three (3) months after the expiration of said employee's probationary
period to obtain a residence within the city limits. (1996 Code § 2-210; amd.
2010 Code)
      2.   Employees regularly assigned to work at the Nutwood water plant may
live within two (2) miles of the plant. (1996 Code § 2-210)
1-7-2: BONDS:
   A.   The city officers, except the commissioners 1 , shall, before entering
on the discharge of the duties of their respective offices, give bond to the
city in the amount established from time to time by the city council by
resolution, which bonds shall be signed by the principals thereof, with good
and sufficient sureties. The bond of each officer shall be conditioned that the
officer will faithfully execute the duties of the office and account for, pay
over and deliver according to law all monies and other property received by the
officer on account of the city.
   B.    All official bonds shall be submitted to the city council for its
approval, which approval, when given, shall be certified thereon by the city
clerk, and the bonds shall be filed and preserved in the clerk's office. The
city council may, at any time, require a new bond to be executed by any city
officer, if from any cause it shall deem the old bond or the sureties thereon
to be insufficient; but the execution of such new bond shall not in any manner
affect any liability, loss or damage incurred under the old bond or release the
sureties from any liability incurred thereon. When any city officer, except the
mayor, a member of the city council and the city clerk, shall have qualified as
required by law and the ordinances of the city, the city clerk shall make out
and deliver to the officer a commission under the corporate seal, signed by the
mayor or presiding officer of the city council and the city clerk.
   C.   No member of the city council or officer of the city shall be received
as surety on the official bond of any city officer. (1996 Code § 2-136)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-5-4 of this title for commissioners' bonds.
1-7-3: COMPENSATION:
All officers and employees of the city shall receive such salaries as may be
provided from time to time by resolution. No officer or employee receiving a
salary from the city shall be entitled to retain any portion of any fees
collected by the officer or employee in the performance of any duties as a
municipal officer or employee in the absence of a specific ordinance provision
to that effect. (1996 Code § 2-209)
1-7-4: REMITTANCE OF COLLECTED FUNDS:
Any city officer collecting or receiving any monies on account of the city
shall remit said monies into the city treasury as soon after collection as
possible except where otherwise expressly provided by ordinance. No officer
shall retain any monies collected or received by him unless expressly so
provided by ordinance but shall pay the funds into the treasury. (1996 Code §
2-133; amd. 2010 Code)
1-7-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS TO SUCCESSOR:
Every officer and employee of the city, upon the expiration of the officer's or
employees' term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to any successor all
books and records which may be the property of the city; and if no successor
has been appointed within one week after termination of office of any officer
or employee, such property shall be delivered either to the city clerk or the
city treasurer. (1996 Code § 2-134)
1-7-6: PROMULGATION OF PERSONNEL REGULATIONS:
Except as otherwise expressly provided by this code or other city ordinance,
the commissioner of each department of city government shall make and enforce
such rules and regulations not inconsistent with law or the ordinances or rules
and regulations adopted by the city council as may be necessary to secure
efficient conduct of the service of the department or the business in charge
thereof. (1996 Code § 2-208)
1-7-7: SOCIAL SECURITY:
   A.   Policy And Purpose: It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose
of the city to extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective as of
January 1, 1954, the benefits of the federal old age and survivors insurance
system as authorized by the federal social security act and amendments thereto.
In pursuance of that policy and for that purpose, the mayor shall take such
action as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
(1996 Code § 2-217)
   B.   Execution Of Agreement With State: The mayor is authorized and directed
to execute an agreement with the state employees' retirement system of the
state social security unit to secure coverage of eligible employees as provided
in this section. (1996 Code § 2-218)
   C.   Withholdings; Remittance: Withholdings from salaries or wages of
employees for the purposes of this section are authorized to be made in the
amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal
laws or regulations and shall be paid over to the state agency in such amounts
and at such times as are designated by state laws or regulations. (1996 Code §
2-219)
   D.   Employer Contributions And Administrative Expenses: Employer
contributions and administrative expenses under this section shall be paid to
the state agency in accordance with applicable state laws and federal
regulations from amounts appropriated for such purposes. (1996 Code § 2-220)
   E.   Records And Reports: The city clerk shall maintain such records and
submit such reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations. (1996 Code § 2-221)
1-7-8: RETIREMENT:
The city council does hereby elect that the city shall participate in the
Illinois municipal retirement fund, effective January 1, 1967. (1996 Code § 2-
207)
1-7-9: RESOLUTION “A” AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS ADOPTED BY
REFERENCE:
The city’s currently enforced Resolution “A” and Collective Bargaining
Agreements, and as amended from time to time in the future, are hereby adopted
by reference, and incorporated herein as if set out in full. Copies of each
have been on file since adopted and will continue to be on file and available
for viewing in the City Clerk’s Office at City Hall. (Ord. 1804, 11-28-2023)
ARTICLE A. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Minority Defined
1-7A-2: City Policy
1-7A-3: Compliance With Policy
1-7A-4: Administration Of Policy
1-7A-1: MINORITY DEFINED:
For the purpose of this article, the term "minority" will refer to American
Indians, Asians, Blacks, or Hispanics, or to such protected classes as youth,
elderly, women, or persons with disabilities. (Ord. 1571, 7-26-2011)
1-7A-2: CITY POLICY:
   A.   The city of Jerseyville hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce, and
advocate for all laws related to equal employment opportunity including, but
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Title VI of the civil rights act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination in the participation in or benefits of programs or activities
receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of race, color, or national
origin.
      2.   Title VII of the civil rights act of 1964 which prohibits
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin in all
employment practices including hiring, firing, promotions, compensation, and
other terms, privileges and conditions of employment.
      3.   Title IX of the education amendments of 1972 which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs.
      4.   The equal pay act of 1963 which covers all employees who are covered
by the fair labor standards act. The act forbids pay differentials on the basis
of sex.
      5.   The age of discrimination act of 1967 which prohibits discrimination
because of age against anyone between the ages of forty (40) and sixty five
(65).
      6.   Federal executive order 11246 which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
      7.   Section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973 and DOL implementing
regulations at 29 CFR parts 32 which provides that no person in the United
States shall be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or
be subject to discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin,
under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the
department of labor.
      8.   Section 188 of WIA and the U.S. DOL regulations at 29 CFR parts 31
and 32 which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subject to
discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin, under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the department
of labor.
      9.   Chapter 68, article 1, section 17 through 19 of the Illinois
constitution which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed,
national ancestry, disability, and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of
any employer.
      10.   The Americans with disabilities act of 1990 which prohibits
discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
their disabilities.
      11.   Illinois human rights act 1  which prohibits discrimination based
on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry, age, order of
protection status, marital status, physical or mental disability, military
status, sexual orientation, or unfavorable discharge from military service in
connection with employment, real estate transactions, access to financial
credit, and the availability of public accommodations.
   B.   The city of Jerseyville will assure nondiscriminatory employment
practices in recruitment, recruitment advertising, employment, placement,
layoff or termination, promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other
forms of compensation and use of facilities.
   C.   The city of Jerseyville will not contract with other agencies, banks,
businesses, vendors, etc., who practice or establish a pattern of
discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, ancestry,
age, order of protection status, marital status, physical or mental disability,
military status, sexual orientation, or unfavorable discharge from military.
   D.   The city of Jerseyville will incorporate into any contract for
construction work, or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules,
regulations, and orders of the secretary of labor or of any prior authority
that remains in effect, which is paid in whole or in part with the aid of such
financial assistance, the following "equal opportunity clause":
      1.   In the event of the contractor's noncompliance with the provisions
of this equal employment opportunity clause, the act or the rules and
regulations of the department, the contractor may be declared ineligible for
future contracts or subcontracts with the state of Illinois or any of its
political subdivisions or municipal corporations, and the contract may be
canceled or voided in whole or in part, and other sanctions or penalties may be
imposed or remedies invoked as provided by statute or regulation. During the
performance of this contract, the contractor agrees as follows:
         a.   That he or she will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation, marital status, national origin or ancestry, citizenship status,
age, physical or mental disability unrelated to ability, sexual orientation,
military status or an unfavorable discharge from the military service, and,
further, that he or she will examine all job classifications to determine if
minority persons or women are underutilized and will take appropriate
affirmative action to rectify any underutilization.
         b.   That, if he or she hires additional employees in order to perform
this contract or any portion of this contract, he or she will determine the
availability (in accordance with the department's rules and regulations) of
minorities and women in the areas from which he or she may reasonably recruit
and he or she will hire for each job classification for which employees are
hired in a way that minorities and women are not underutilized.
         c.   That, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed
by him or her or on his or her behalf, he or she will state that all applicants
will be afforded equal opportunity without discrimination because of race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, national origin or
ancestry, citizenship status, age, physical or mental disability unrelated to
ability, sexual orientation, military status or an unfavorable discharge from
military service.
         d.   That he or she will send to each labor organization or
representative of workers with which he or she has or is bound by a collective
bargaining or other agreement or understanding, a notice advising the labor
organization or representative of the contractor's obligations under the act or
the department's rules and regulations. If any labor organization or
representative fails or refuses to cooperate with the contractor in his or her
efforts to comply with the act and rules and regulations, the contractor will
promptly notify the department and the contracting agency and will recruit
employees from other sources when necessary to fulfill its obligations under
the contract.
         e.   That he or she will submit reports as required by the
department's rules and regulations, furnish all relevant information as may
from time to time be requested by the department or the contracting agency, and
in all respects comply with the act and the department's rules and regulations.
         f.   That he or she will permit access to all relevant books, records,
accounts and work sites by personnel of the contracting agency and the
department for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with the act
and the department's rules and regulations.
         g.   That he or she will include verbatim or by reference the
provisions of this clause in every subcontract awarded under which any portion
of the contract obligations are undertaken or assumed, so that the provisions
will be binding upon the subcontractor. In the same manner as with other
provisions of this contract, the contractor will be liable for compliance with
applicable provisions of this clause by subcontractors; and further it will
promptly notify the contracting agency and the department in the event any
subcontractor fails or refuses to comply with the provisions. In addition, the
contractor will not utilize any subcontractor declared by the Illinois human
rights commission to be ineligible for contracts and subcontracts with the
state of Illinois or any of its political subdivisions or municipal
corporations.
   E.   The city of Jerseyville assures that it will actively provide
nondiscriminatory outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   F.   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the city of
Jerseyville as well as surrounding areas.
   G.   The city of Jerseyville will provide accommodations to the best of its
ability for employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural
limitations. (Ord. 1571, 7-26-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 775 ILCS 5.
1-7A-3: COMPLIANCE WITH POLICY:
All city of Jerseyville employees are expected to adhere to the above policy
and to work actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out
city program activities. (Ord. 1571, 7-26-2011)
1-7A-4: ADMINISTRATION OF POLICY:
The city of Jerseyville designates the mayor and city council of the city of
Jerseyville, Illinois, to carry out the EEO/AA plan. (Ord. 1571, 7-26-2011)
ARTICLE B. ETHICS
SECTION:
1-7B-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-7B-2: Definitions
1-7B-3: Interpretation
1-7B-4: Prohibited Acts
1-7B-5: Amendments
1-7B-6: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-7B-7: Penalties
1-7B-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 430/10-10 through
430/10-40 of the state officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this article)
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the city to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
430/70-5. (Ord. 1439, 6-8-2004)
1-7B-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 1439,
6-8-2004)
1-7B-3: INTERPRETATION:
This article does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this article, however, the provisions of this article shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 1439, 6-8-2004)
1-7B-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the city under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the city is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 1439, 6-8-2004)
1-7B-5: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this article by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this article by
reference without formal action by the mayor and city council. (Ord. 1439, 6-8-
2004; amd. 2010 Code)
1-7B-6: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this article shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This article shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the mayor and city council if the act is found unconstitutional by the Illinois
supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act, as adopted by
this article, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
article relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the mayor and city council. (Ord. 1439, 6-8-
2004; amd. 2010 Code)
1-7B-7: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this article shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 1439, 6-8-2004)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIFIC CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Bond
1-8A-2: Ex Officio City Collector
1-8A-3: Duties
1-8A-4: Clerk Of Committees, Boards And Commissions
1-8A-5: Deputy Clerk And Assistants
1-8A-6: Office And Hours
1-8A-1: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of office, the city clerk shall execute a bond
in such an amount and with such sureties as may be required by the city
council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office.
(1996 Code § 2-152)
1-8A-2: EX OFFICIO CITY COLLECTOR:
The city clerk shall be ex officio city collector. The city clerk shall collect
and keep proper accounts of all special assessments levied or imposed upon
property in the city, and shall perform such other duties of a city collector
as may be designated by the city council. (1996 Code § 2-153)
1-8A-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Remittance Of Monies; Statement: The city clerk shall turn over all
monies received by him on behalf of the city to the city treasurer promptly on
receipt of the same, and with such remittance, he shall give a statement as to
the source of said monies. (1996 Code § 2-154)
   B.   Records And Documents:
      1.   In addition to the record of ordinances and records which the city
clerk is required by statute to keep, he shall keep a register of all licenses
and permits issued and a record of the payment thereon. He shall keep a record
showing all of the officers and regular employees of the city, and such other
records as may be required by the city council. (1996 Code § 2-158)
      2.   The city clerk shall make and keep a record of all business of the
city council. (1996 Code § 2-159)
      3.   The city clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging to
the city which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer. (1996
Code § 2-163)
   C.   Warrants: The city clerk shall, upon the allowance of any account or
claim by the city council, draw a warrant therefor upon the city treasury
payable to the order of the claimant, which warrant, when signed by the mayor
and countersigned by the city clerk, shall be paid by the city treasurer. The
city clerk shall keep in a suitable book an accurate list of all warrants drawn
on the treasury, stating the date, number and amount thereof and the name of
the person in whose favor drawn. (1996 Code § 2-160)
   D.   Accounts:
      1.   The city clerk shall keep accounts showing all monies received by
him and the source and disposition thereof and such other accounts as may be
required by statute or ordinance. (1996 Code § 2-161)
      2.   The city clerk shall keep all accounts pertaining to the finances of
the city. The city clerk shall keep an accurate account with all city officers
and others collecting or receiving any monies, property or claims on account of
the city, charging them with all monies or property received by them or claims
placed in their hands for collection, and crediting them with all monies paid
into the treasury, upon their filing the treasurer's receipt, or with claims of
accounts uncollectible or other proper credits, upon filing the proper
vouchers. The city treasurer shall be credited with all warrants canceled and
returned. (1996 Code § 2-162; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Custodian Of Seal: The city clerk shall be the custodian of the city
seal 1 . (1996 Code § 2-164)
   F.   Attest Contracts, Licenses And Other Documents: The city clerk shall
attest all contracts of the city and all licenses, permits and other documents
which require this formality. (1996 Code § 2-165)
   G.   Additional Duties: In addition to the duties prescribed in this
article, the city clerk shall perform such other duties and functions as may be
required by statute or ordinance. (1996 Code § 2-166)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 9 of this title.
1-8A-4: CLERK OF COMMITTEES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS:
   A.   The city clerk shall be ex officio clerk of each and every committee of
the city council or board or commission of the city government.
   B.   As clerk of such committees and boards, the clerk shall perform such
duties as said committees and boards may order when in session or as the chair
may direct when the committee or board shall not be in session. It shall be the
clerk's duty to keep accurate minutes of the proceedings of each committee and
board, give notice of meetings to all the members thereof, attend all meetings
of the same, and in general do and perform whatever may be required by the
committees or boards. The deputy clerk may assist the city clerk with these
custodial duties. (1996 Code § 2-156; amd. 2010 Code)
1-8A-5: DEPUTY CLERK AND ASSISTANTS:
The city clerk may appoint and supervise a deputy and any other assistants
necessary to administer the duties of the city clerk's office, who shall
receive such compensation as may be provided by the city council. (1996 Code §
2-155)
1-8A-6: OFFICE AND HOURS:
The city clerk shall maintain an office in the city hall, which office shall be
open for business from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four thirty o'clock (4:30)
P.M., Monday through Friday. (1996 Code § 2-157; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Appointment And Supervision
1-8B-2: Bond
1-8B-3: Duties
1-8B-1: APPOINTMENT AND SUPERVISION:
The city treasurer shall be appointed by the city council as provided by
statute and shall be under the supervision of the commissioner of accounts and
finances. (1996 Code § 2-173)
1-8B-2: BOND:
The city treasurer shall give bond in such sum as may be required by the city
council, but the bond shall not be less than the greater of fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00) or three (3) times the latest federal census of the
population of the city, or as required by statute, with sureties to be approved
by the city council. The bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful
performance by the treasurer of the duties of office, and to indemnify the city
for any loss due to any neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the
treasurer. (1996 Code § 2-174; amd. 2010 Code)
1-8B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The city treasurer shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed by statute or ordinance. The city treasurer shall receive all monies
paid to the city, either directly from the person paying it or from the hands
of such other officer as may receive it, and shall pay out only on vouchers,
warrants or orders properly signed by the city clerk and the mayor. (1996 Code
§ 2-175)
   B.   Deposit Of Funds; Commingling Of Funds Prohibited: The city treasurer
shall deposit the city funds in such depositories as are located within the
corporate limits of the city and in such institutions that have branch offices
located within the corporate limits of the city and as provided by statute.
Provided, however, that funds may be deposited in qualifying financial
institutions in Greene or Calhoun County, Illinois, or in Alton or Godfrey,
Illinois, if the rate of interest offered by said institutions exceeds by more
than two tenths of one percent (0.2%) the amount of interest offered by the
Jerseyville institutions for the same. The city treasurer shall keep the city
money separate and distinct from the treasurer's own, and shall not intermingle
the treasurer's own money with city money or make private or personal use of
the city funds. (1996 Code § 2-176)
   C.   Records And Accounts:
      1.   The city treasurer shall keep records showing all monies received,
the source from which it was received and the purpose for which it was paid
out, and shall keep a record showing at all times the financial status of the
city.
      2.   The city treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by the city council and shall keep them in the manner required by law.
(1996 Code § 2-177)
   D.   Warrants:
      1.   Payment Of Warrants: The city treasurer shall pay out money in
payment of all bills for salaries or for any other purpose, other than the
retirement of principal or interest on bonds or tax anticipation warrants, only
upon warrants signed by the mayor and the city clerk as provided by statute.
The warrants shall designate the items to be paid and the funds from which they
are to be paid. (1996 Code § 2-178)
      2.   Register Of Warrants: The city treasurer shall keep a register of
all warrants, bonds or orders filed with the treasurer or paid by the treasurer
and all vouchers as required by statute. (1996 Code § 2-179)
   E.   Monthly Report: The city treasurer shall, at the first city council
meeting of each month, report to the city council, under oath, a statement of
all receipts and expenditures for the preceding month and shall, in the report,
set forth the condition of each fund, showing the amount drawn out of the same
and the balance remaining therein. (1996 Code § 2-180)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Appointment; Supervision
1-8C-2: Duties
1-8C-1: APPOINTMENT; SUPERVISION:
The mayor may appoint a city attorney, to be confirmed by the city council. The
city attorney shall be subject to the supervision of the superintendent of the
department of public affairs. (1996 Code § 2-188; amd. 2010 Code)
1-8C-2: DUTIES:
   A.   The city attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or
actions at law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may
be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the city on
behalf of the city, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the
city.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the city attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
city and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   C.   The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and shall
render advice on all legal questions affecting the city whenever requested to
do so by any city official. Upon request by the mayor or by the city council,
the city attorney shall reduce any opinion to writing.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the city attorney to oversee and manage the
completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
   E.   It shall be the duty of the city attorney to draft or supervise the
phraseology of any contracts, leases or other documents or instruments to which
the city may be a party, and upon request by the city council, to draft
ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the city. (1996 Code § 2-
189; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Duties Generally
1-8D-2: Preservation Of Plats And Records
1-8D-1: DUTIES GENERALLY:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the public works director to prepare or cause
to be prepared plans and specifications for, and supervise the construction of,
all improvements to city owned property, including city streets, utilities and
buildings.
   B.   The public works director shall give to city employees or officers such
engineering information and advice as they may need in the performance of their
duties. The public works director shall advise the city council on all
engineering matters and perform such other duties as may be assigned by the
mayor or by the city council.
   C.   Other duties as are shown on the official job description of the public
works director dated April 23, 2019 and on file with the city clerk. (1996 Code
§ 2-198; amd. Ord. 1743, 4-23-2019)
1-8D-2: PRESERVATION OF PLATS AND RECORDS:
The public works director shall:
   A.   Preserve all records and plats of surveys and all books, papers and
writings pertaining to the public works director’s office.
   B.   Make out and keep a diagram or plat of all the grades and boundaries of
streets and alleys established by the city council, correcting them when any
grade shall be changed and adding thereto when any new grade or boundary shall
be established.
   C.   Record in a suitable book the profiles and notes of all surveys, grades
and boundaries established, and preserve the original papers relating thereto,
and shall otherwise keep a systematic record of all transactions pertaining to
the department. (1996 Code § 2-199; amd. Ord. 1743, 4-23-2019)
CHAPTER 9
CITY SEAL
SECTION:
1-9-1: Description
1-9-2: Use
1-9-1: DESCRIPTION:
A seal, in a circular form, with a star in the center and the words "City of
Jerseyville" in the outer circle over the star and the words and figures
"Incorporated February 21, 1867" in the outer circle under the star, shall be
the seal of the city. (1996 Code § 2-2)
1-9-2: USE:
The city clerk shall prepare all commissions or other official documents
required to be issued, affix the corporate seal thereto and attest or
countersign the same 1 . The clerk shall affix the corporate seal to all
official acts of the mayor requiring it and, if necessary, attest or
countersign such acts; however, in no case shall the impression of the
corporate seal bind the city unless it is authorized by law or the ordinances
of the city and is attested by the signature of the city clerk lawfully
affixed. (1996 Code § 2-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-8A-3E of this title.
CHAPTER 10
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-10-1: Plan Adopted; Jurisdiction
1-10-1: PLAN ADOPTED; JURISDICTION:
The city comprehensive plan update, dated February 26, 2008, which contains
descriptive narrative and a map relating to the proposed land uses and primary
streets, is hereby adopted as the official comprehensive plan for the city and
adjoining territory within one and one-half (11/2) miles from the municipal
boundaries of the city. (Ord. 1514, 3-25-2008; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Termination Of Board Or Commission Members
2-1-1: TERMINATION OF BOARD OR COMMISSION MEMBERS:
   A.   All members of boards and commissions appointed by the city council
shall be terminated as a member of the board or commission upon the happening
of either of the following events:
      1.   Absence from two (2) successive regularly or specially scheduled
meetings of the board or commission to which he or she was appointed during one
calendar year without consent or approval of the chair of the board or
commission to which he or she was appointed.
      2.   Absence from a total of three (3) regularly or specially scheduled
meetings of the board or commission to which he or she was appointed during one
calendar year without consent or approval of the chair of the board or
commission to which he or she was appointed.
   B.   The missing of meetings as set out in this section shall constitute
automatic termination of said board or commission member's tenure as board or
commission member, and a vacancy shall be deemed to exist on said board or
commission which shall be filled by the city council as in all other cases
where a vacancy exists. (1996 Code § 2-229; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
RESERVED
(Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Created; Composition
2-3-2: Appointment And Terms
2-3-3: Qualifications; Oath And Bond
2-3-4: Removal Of Members
2-3-5: Powers And Duties
2-3-6: Compensation
2-3-1: BOARD CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created a board of fire and police commissioners consisting of
three (3) members as provided by state statute. (1996 Code § 2-253)
2-3-2: APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
The members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall be appointed by
the mayor, by and with the consent of the city council; however, no such
appointment shall be made by the mayor within thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration of the mayor's term of office. The terms of office of the members of
the board of fire and police commissioners shall be three (3) years and until
their respective successors shall be appointed and qualified; however, of the
members first appointed, the mayor shall appoint one member to serve until the
end of the current municipal year in which the appointment is made, one member
shall serve until the end of the second municipal year next ensuing, and one
member shall be appointed for a full three (3) year term. The first members of
the board shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. (1996
Code § 2-254)
2-3-3: QUALIFICATIONS; OATH AND BOND:
The members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall have such
qualifications as are now, or may hereafter be, required of them by law. Each
member of the board of fire and police commissioners shall take oath or
affirmation of office and shall execute and shall deliver to the city a bond in
the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with such sureties as the mayor
and the city council shall approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of
the duties of the office. (1996 Code § 2-255)
2-3-4: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The members of the board of fire and police commissioners shall not be subject
to removal, except for cause, upon written charges, and after an opportunity to
be heard, within thirty (30) days, in their own defense, before a regular
meeting of the city council. A majority vote of the city council shall be
required to remove any such member from office. (1996 Code § 2-256; amd. 2010
Code)
2-3-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall have such powers and duties as
are now, or as may hereafter be, given to said board by this code, other
ordinances of the city or by state law. (1996 Code § 2-257)
2-3-6: COMPENSATION:
The secretary of the board of fire and police commissioners shall serve without
compensation, and the members of the board shall serve without compensation.
(1996 Code § 2-258)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board And Department Created
2-4-2: Composition And Appointment
2-4-3: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-4-4: Powers And Duties
2-4-5: Compensation
2-4-1: BOARD AND DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a parks and recreation system board, to be known as the
"Jerseyville parks and recreation board". There shall be created a parks and
recreation department which shall be under the control and supervision of the
department of public property. (1996 Code § 21-26; amd. Ord. 1547, 2-23-2010)
2-4-2: COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT:
The parks and recreation board shall consist of five (5) members who shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the city council. Each year, the
mayor, with the consent of the city council, shall appoint one of said five (5)
members to serve as chair of the board. (1996 Code § 21-27; amd. Ord. 1405, 9-
2-2003)
2-4-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
The terms of office of the members of the parks and recreation board shall be
five (5) years or until their successors are appointed and have qualified;
except, that the members first appointed to the board shall be appointed for
such terms that the term of one member shall expire annually thereafter. If a
vacancy occurs in the office of any board member, the mayor shall appoint a
successor to serve for the unexpired term. (1996 Code § 21-29)
2-4-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The parks and recreation board shall have all the powers and duties as are now
or may hereafter be provided by statute for the establishment, conduct and
maintenance of a supervised parks and recreation system. Said powers shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   To supervise the monies, facilities, staff and recreational activities
of the parks and recreation department, the Donors Pool, Feyerabend Building,
the Lion's Club Park, the Civic Complex Building, the Dolan Memorial City Park
and any other lands and facilities designated for recreation by the city
council.
   B.   To set policy for staff and recreational activities for the parks and
recreation department.
   C.   To prepare and approve budgets for the operation of facilities and
staff. (1996 Code § 21-30)
   D.   To employ and dismiss any nonunion employees of the department subject
to the review of the city council and subject to all city ordinances and policy
manuals. (1996 Code § 21-30; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   To supervise the maintenance and care of buildings, grounds and
equipment assigned to the board. (1996 Code § 21-30)
2-4-5: COMPENSATION:
The members of the parks and recreation board shall serve as such without
compensation. (1996 Code § 21-28)
TITLE 3
CITY FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Claims Against City
3-1-2: Interest On Taxes Collected By County
3-1-3: Sale Of Property For Taxes And Special Assessments
3-1-1: CLAIMS AGAINST CITY:
No claim or account against the city, except for the salaries of city officers
and personnel or for the payment of a special contract made by the city council
or by some officer authorized by ordinance to make contracts, shall be
considered, audited or allowed, nor shall any warrant be issued for the payment
thereof, unless the person presenting the claim, or his agent, shall make oath
before some officer duly authorized by law to administer oaths, that the claim
or account is true, just and correct and that the charges therein are
reasonable; nor shall a warrant be issued until the claim or account has been
referred to and examined by the commissioner of accounts and finances, who
shall report the claim back to the city council, with the commissioner's
recommendations endorsed thereon, at which time the claim or account shall be
acted upon by the city council. (1996 Code § 2-3)
3-1-2: INTEREST ON TAXES COLLECTED BY COUNTY:
The city hereby directs the county treasurer to allow the money accrued as
interest on taxes collected in its various funds and levies to be paid directly
to the city. (1996 Code § 2-4)
3-1-3: SALE OF PROPERTY FOR TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
The mayor and the city clerk are authorized to execute, under the corporate
seal of the city, good and sufficient deeds of conveyance of any parcel of real
estate so acquired by the city as the result of the foreclosure of any liens
for taxes or special assessments, upon the payment to the city, by the
purchaser of a parcel, of a sum of money at least equal to the amount of the
taxes, special assessments, costs or fees that shall have been advanced by the
city in the payment of taxes, assessments and other legal impositions levied
and assessed against each of the parcels of real estate as may from time to
time be sold. (1996 Code § 27-1)
CHAPTER 2
BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Bidding Requirements
3-2-2: Open Market Procedure
3-2-3: Exemptions From Bidding Requirements
3-2-4: Emergency Purchases
3-2-5: Cooperative Purchasing
3-2-6: Contract Modification, Change Order, Or Contract Price Adjustment
3-2-1: BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Competitive Bidding Required: Any work or other public improvement that
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, when the expense thereof will exceed twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00), shall be constructed either: 1) by a contract let to the lowest
responsible bidder after advertising for bids, in the manner prescribed by
ordinance; except, that any such contract may be entered into by the proper
city officers without advertising for bids if authorized by a vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of all the council members then holding office; or 2) in the
following manner, if authorized by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the
council members then holding office: The proper city officer, to be designated
by ordinance, shall superintend and cause to be carried out the construction of
the work or other public improvement and shall employ exclusively for the
performance of all manual labor thereon, laborers and artisans whom the city
shall pay by the day or hour; and all material of the value of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) and upward used in the construction of the work or other
public improvement shall be purchased by contract let to the lowest responsible
bidder in the manner to be provided in this section. However, nothing contained
in this subsection shall apply to any contract by the city with the federal
government or any agency thereof.
   B.   Advertisements For Bids: A notice inviting bids shall be published at
least once in a newspaper with general circulation within the city. The
newspaper notice required herein shall include a general description of the
work to be performed or the articles to be purchased, shall state where
specifications may be secured, and shall specify the time and place for opening
bids. (Ord. 1243, 7-28-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Bid Deposits:
      1.   When deemed necessary by the city council, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids.
      2.   Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to the return of their bid
deposits upon the award of the contract by the city council.
      3.   A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required by city
council upon failure on his part to enter into a contract within ten (10) days
after the award.
      4.   Such bid deposit may be in the form of a certified check, bond, or
letter of credit in an amount as specified in the advertisement for bids to
ensure finalization of the contract and to indemnify the city against all loss,
damages, and claims that may accrue against the city as a consequence of the
granting of the contract.
   D.   Sealed Bids: Bids shall be submitted sealed to the city and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
   E.   Opening And Tabulation Of Bids: Bids shall be opened in public at the
time and place stated in the public notice. A tabulation of all bids received
shall be made by the city council or by the city clerk, in which event, a
tabulation of the bids shall be furnished to the city council at its next
regular meeting.
   F.   Rejection, Nonacceptance Of Bids:
      1.   The city, through its corporate authorities, shall have the
authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will
be served thereby.
      2.   The city shall not accept the bid of a contractor who is in default
on the payment of taxes, licenses, or other money due the city.
   G.   Award Of Contract:
      1.   Authority: The city council shall have the authority to award
contracts within the purview of this chapter.
      2.   Lowest Responsible Bidder: Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interests of the
city to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the city
council shall consider:
         a.   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required.
         b.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference.
         c.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder.
         d.   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or services.
         e.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service.
         f.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service.
         g.   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required.
         h.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract.
         i.   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      3.   Performance Bonds: The city council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amount as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city
and to conform to the statutory requirements for such bonds. (Ord. 1243, 7-28-
1998)
3-2-2: OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE:
   A.   Generally: All work and purchases of supplies, materials, and services
of less than the estimated value of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) may be
made in the open market by the city council without newspaper advertisement and
without observing the procedure prescribed by this chapter for the award of
formal contracts in such a manner so as to ensure the best interests of the
public after solicitation of bids on proposals by mail, telephone, facsimile
transmission, or otherwise. (Ord. 1243, 7-28-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Commissioners And Department Heads: Each city commissioner is hereby
granted the authority to authorize purchases or to make purchases for his
department in an amount not to exceed four thousand dollars ($4,000.00) without
consent or vote of the city council. Each department head or superintendent may
purchase day to day operating supplies not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00) without consent of the city council or the commissioner in charge of
the specific department. All such purchases shall be made with the best
interest of the public in mind. (Ord. 1243, 7-28-1998)
3-2-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Professional Services: All contracts for professional services,
including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers, real estate appraisers,
and architects, and any other profession whose ethical code involved prohibits
or discourages involvement in normal bidding procedures, may be entered into by
the city without observing the bidding procedures prescribed by this chapter
for the award of formal contracts.
   B.   Employment Contracts: Regular employment contracts in the municipal
service shall likewise be exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
1243, 7-28-1998)
3-2-4: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
In case of an apparent emergency that requires immediate work or purchase of
supplies, materials, or services, the city council shall be empowered to secure
by open market procedure as herein set forth, at the lowest obtainable price,
any work, supplies, materials, or services regardless of the amount of the
expenditure. A finding of such an emergency shall be made in an affirmative
vote of four (4) of the five (5) council members elected at the time of such
emergency contract or no later than the first regular city council meeting
thereafter. (Ord. 1243, 7-28-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
3-2-5: COOPERATIVE PURCHASING:
The city shall have the authority to join with other units of government in
cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the city would be
served thereby. (Ord. 1243, 7-28-1998)
3-2-6: CONTRACT MODIFICATION, CHANGE ORDER, OR CONTRACT PRICE ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Every contract modification, change order, or contract price adjustment
under a construction contract in excess of four thousand dollars ($4,000.00)
shall be subject to prior written certification by the fiscal officer of the
entity responsible for funding the project or the contract, or other official
responsible for monitoring and reporting upon the status of the costs of the
total project budget or contract budget, as to the effect of the contract
modification, change order, or adjustment in contract price on the total
project budget or the total contract budget. (Ord. 1243, 7-28-1998; amd. 2010
Code)
   B.   In the event that the certification of the fiscal officer or other
responsible official discloses a resulting increase in the total project budget
and/or the total contract budget, the city council shall not execute or make
such contract modification, change order, or adjustment in contract price
unless sufficient funds are available therefor, or the scope of the project or
contract is adjusted so as to permit the degree of completion that is feasible
within the total project budget and/or total contract budget as it existed
prior to the contract modification, change order, or adjustment in contract
price under consideration; provided, however, that with respect to the validity
as to the contractor of any executed contract modification, change order, or
adjustment in contract price which the contractor has reasonably relied upon,
it shall be presumed that there has been compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 1243, 7-28-1998)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-3-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-3-3: Nonhome Rule Municipal Retailers' And Service Occupation Taxes
3-3-4: Municipal Use Tax
3-3-5: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3-3-6: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
3-3-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Amount: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city, at
the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of their business, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-
1 of the Illinois municipal code. (1996 Code § 27-16)
   B.   Report Required: Each person engaged in a business subject to this
section shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the
report to the state department of revenue required by state law. (1996 Code §
27-17)
   C.   Remittance Of Tax: At the time the monthly report required by this
section is filed, there shall be paid to the state department of revenue the
amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from sales of tangible
personal property during the preceding month. (1996 Code § 27-18)
   D.   Exclusions From Tax:
      1.   Exclusion a-1 contained in section 2 of the retailers' occupation
tax act 1 , approved June 28, 1933, as amended, shall not apply to persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail within
the city. (1996 Code § 27-19)
      2.   The exclusion contained in section 2(d) of the retailers' occupation
tax act, approved June 28, 1933, as amended, shall apply to property within the
city, effective May 1, 1983. (1996 Code § 27-19.1)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-3-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Amount: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in the city in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by
the servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form
of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of section 8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal code. (1996 Code § 27-
29)
   B.   Report Required: Each supplier or serviceman required to account for
the municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state
department of revenue required by state law. (1996 Code § 27-30)
   C.   Remittance Of Tax: At the time the monthly report required by this
section is filed, the servicemen subject to this section shall pay to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax imposed by this section. (1996 Code §
27-31)
   D.   Exclusions From Tax:
      1.   The farm machinery and equipment exclusion contained in section 3 of
the service occupation tax act 1 , approved July 10, 1961, as amended, shall
not apply to persons engaged in the business of making sales of service within
the city. (1996 Code § 27-32)
      2.   The exclusion contained in section 2(e) of the service occupation
tax act, approved June 10, 1961, as amended, shall apply to property within the
city, effective May 1, 1983. (1996 Code § 27-32.1)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3-3-3: NONHOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAXES:
   A.   Taxes Imposed; Scope And Amounts:
      1.   In addition to the other taxes levied in this chapter, an additional
tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property, other than an item of personal property titled or
registered with an agency of the state government, at retail in the city at the
rate of one- half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts from such sales
made in the course of such business while this section is in effect; and a tax
is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the city in the business of
making sales of service, at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the
selling price of all tangible property transferred by such servicemen as an
incident to a sale of service.
      2.   Such nonhome rule municipal retailers' occupation tax and the
nonhome rule municipal service occupation tax shall not be applicable to the
sales of food for human consumption which is to be consumed off the premises
where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has
been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics.
   B.   Compliance With State Law: The imposition of these additional nonhome
rule taxes is in accordance with the provisions of sections 8-11-1.3 and 8-11-
1.4, respectively, of the Illinois municipal code.
   C.   Administration And Enforcement: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and
enforced by the state department of revenue. The department of revenue shall
have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section. (Ord.
1332, 1-23-2001, eff. 1-1-2002)
3-3-4: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Amount: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the
provisions of section 8-11-6 of the Illinois municipal code upon the privilege
of using in the city any item of tangible personal property which is purchased
outside Illinois at retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered
with an agency of Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one
percent (1%) of the selling price of such tangible property, with "selling
price" to have the meaning as defined in the use tax act 1 , approved July 14,
1955. (1996 Code § 27-41)
   B.   Collection Of Tax; Due Date: Such tax shall be collected by the
Illinois department of revenue for the city, and the tax shall be paid before
the title or certificate of registration for the personal property is issued.
(1996 Code § 27-42)
   C.   Exclusions From Tax: The farm machinery and equipment exclusion
contained in section 3 of the use tax act, approved July 14, 1955, as amended,
shall not apply to the privilege of using in the city any item of tangible
personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at retail from a retailer
and which is titled or registered with an agency of the state government. (1996
Code § 27-43)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
3-3-5: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Amount: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in the business of renting automobiles in the city at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-7 of the Illinois municipal code. (1996 Code § 27-51)
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the city
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
state department of revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of an act in relation
to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property to purchasers for use or consumption 1 , approved June 29, 1933, as
amended. (1996 Code § 27-52)
   C.   Remittance Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on
account of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (1996 Code §
27-53)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 155/1 et seq.
3-3-6: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed; Amount: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of
using in the city an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois
and which is titled or registered with an agency of the state government at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-8 of
the Illinois municipal code. (1996 Code § 27-61)
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The tax provided for in this section shall be
collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration
purposes is given as being in the city. (1996 Code § 27-62)
   C.   Remittance Of Tax: The tax imposed by this section shall be paid to the
Illinois department of revenue. (1996 Code § 27-63)
CHAPTER 4
SIMPLIFIED TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Tax Imposed; Amount
3-4-3: Report Required
3-4-4: Collection Of Tax
3-4-5: Remittance Of Tax
3-4-6: Overpayments Credited
3-4-7: Limitation On Collection Of Tax
3-4-8: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of the taxes imposed and levied by this chapter, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the city
regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
CITY: The city of Jerseyville, Jersey County, Illinois.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the city and for all services rendered in
connection therewith, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise,
including cash, credits, services and property of every kind or nature, and
shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost of such
telecommunications, the cost of the material used, labor or service costs or
any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the amount thereof
shall be included only as and when paid. However, "gross charge" shall not
include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
      1.   The tax imposed by this chapter;
      2.   Additional charges added to a purchaser's bill pursuant to section
9-222 of the public utilities act 1 ;
      3.   The tax imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act 2 ; or
      4.   The tax imposed by section 4251 of the internal revenue code;
   B.   Charges for sent collect telecommunications received outside of the
city;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer for any source, wherein such charges are desegregated
and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
public utilities act 3  to the extent of such exemption and during the period
of time specified by the department of commerce and community affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this chapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards. If the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made); or
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within the state of Illinois.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any
court, the federal and state governments, including state universities created
by statute or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision of this
state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
"sales at retail" as defined in this section. A municipality may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the municipality, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in the city in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within the city.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located herein permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services rendered in connection therewith for a consideration, to
persons other than the federal and state governments, and state universities
created by statute and other than between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the tax has
already been paid to a retailer and the gross charge made by one such
corporation to another such corporation is not greater than the gross charge
paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. If this is not a defined location, as in
the case of mobile phones, paging systems, maritime systems, air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who, individually or through his agents, employees, or
permittee, engages in the act or privilege of originating in the city or
receiving in the city telecommunications and who incurs a tax liability under
any ordinance authorized by this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the usual and popular meaning, includes, but
is not limited to, messages or information transmitted through use of local,
toll and wide area telephone service, channel services, telegraph services,
teletypewriter service, computer exchange services, cellular mobile
telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio services, paging service,
or any other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means between or among points by wire cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities. The definition of "telecommunications"
shall not include value added service in which computer processing applications
are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for
purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include
purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service provided for use
as a component part of the service provided by him to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. (Ord. 1375,
7-23-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/9-222.
2 2. 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.
3 1. 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1.
3-4-2: TAX IMPOSED; AMOUNT:
There is imposed and levied the following taxes on the following occupations or
privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city intrastate telecommunications by a person at the rate of six percent (6%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer by such person. However, such tax is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by
municipalities of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 1375, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 1380,
9-27-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the city or receiving in the
city interstate telecommunications by a person at the rate of six percent (6%)
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer by such person. To prevent actual multistate taxation of such act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event or
events, shall be allowed a credit against any tax to the extent of the amount
of such tax properly due and paid in such other state which was not previously
allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in the state of
Illinois. However, such tax is not imposed on the act or privilege to the
extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of
the United States, be made the subject of taxation by municipalities of the
state of Illinois. (Ord. 1375, 7-23-2002; amd. Ord. 1380, 9-27-2002, eff. 1-1-
2003; 2010 Code)
3-4-3: REPORT REQUIRED:
   A.   On or before October 31, 2002, each retailer shall make a return to the
city treasurer, for the months of July, August and September 2002, stating:
      1.   The name of the retailer.
      2.   The retailer's address for its principal place of business.
      3.   The retailer's gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed.
      4.   The amount of tax.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   B.   On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each
retailer shall make a like return to the city treasurer for the corresponding
three (3) month period. The retailer making the return provided for in this
section shall, at the time of making such return, pay the city treasurer the
amount of tax imposed by this chapter; provided, that in connection with any
return, the retailer may, if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon
his total billings of business subject to the tax during the period for which
the return is due (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt
adjustments of late payments used upon any differences between such billings
and the taxable gross receipts. (Ord. 1375, 7-23-2002)
3-4-4: COLLECTION OF TAX:
The taxes authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer by a
retailer maintaining a place of business in the state of Illinois and making or
officiating the sale at retail and shall be remitted by such retailer to the
city. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this chapter and any such
tax collected by such retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to
the city. Retailers shall collect the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax
to the gross charge for the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications when sold for use. (Ord. 1375, 7-23-2002)
3-4-5: REMITTANCE OF TAX:
Retailers filing tax returns pursuant to this chapter shall, at the time of
filing such return, pay to the city the amount of the tax imposed by this
chapter, less a commission of one and three- fourths percent (1.75%) of the tax
collected and remitted with the return. Such commission is allowed to reimburse
the retailer for the expenses incurred in keeping records, billing the
customer, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to
the city upon request. No commission may be claimed by a retailer for tax not
timely remitted to the city. (Ord. 1375, 7-23-2002)
3-4-6: OVERPAYMENTS CREDITED:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or
an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to
become due, under this chapter from the retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years
prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited; and provided
further, that the retailer reasonably described such overpayment on the tax
return. (Ord. 1375, 7-23-2002)
3-4-7: LIMITATION ON COLLECTION OF TAX:
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this chapter
shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 1375, 7-23-2002)
3-4-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any retailer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who wilfully violates any other provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and in
addition shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due. (Ord.
1375, 7-23-2002)
CHAPTER 5
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Short Title
3-5-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
3-5-3: Definitions
3-5-4: Notice Requirements
3-5-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
3-5-6: Application Of Tax Payments
3-5-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-5-8: Audit Procedure
3-5-9: Appeals
3-5-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
3-5-11: Installment Contracts
3-5-12: Statute Of Limitations
3-5-13: Voluntary Disclosure
3-5-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
3-5-15: Review Of Liens
3-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
3-5-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city
procedures in connection with all of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the city tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (Ord. 1331,
12-12-2000)
3-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed to
them as follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 .
CITY: The city of Jerseyville, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city council.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city commissioner of finance is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect hereto. The exercise of such authority by the local
tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city and not an agency or department of the
state. The term does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's imposed and administered
taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000) !DEFEND!
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
3-5-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator by
U.S. registered or certified mail. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000; amd. 2010 Code)
3-5-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the city
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the city on or before the due date; or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
3-5-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
3-5-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The city shall not refund or credit any taxes
voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the event
that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four (4) or less years after the end of the calendar
year in which payment in error was made. The city shall not grant a credit or
refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a
person who has not paid the amounts directly to the city.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
3-5-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this section.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice of audit shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's
tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
3-5-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The procedure for appealing the assessment;
      3.   The obligation of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process; and
      4.   The amount of the tax liability proposed. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
3-5-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
   B.   Interest: The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount taxed required to be shown as due on
a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%) of
the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner
provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a
notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file
penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (Ord. 1331, 12-
12-2000)
3-5-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
3-5-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The city, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitation shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000; amd. 2010 Code)
3-5-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due
under this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application
may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for any period
before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000;
amd. 2010 Code)
3-5-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public, upon request, at the city
clerk's office. (Ord. 1331, 12-12-2000)
3-5-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayer for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the city's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
1331, 12-12-2000)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
SECTION:
3-6-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-6-2: Collection Of Tax By retailers
3-6-3: Severability
3-6-4: Effective Date
3-6-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the city at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord.
1750, 9-27-2019)
3-6-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this Chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this Chapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 1750, 9-27-2019)
3-6-3: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Chapter, or the application of any provision of this
Chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this Chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this Chapter. (Ord. 1750,
9-27-2019)
3-6-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that the tax
provided for herein shall take effect for all sales on or after the first day
of January 2020. Copies of this Chapter shall be certified and sent to the
Illinois Department of Revenue prior to September 30, 2019. (Ord. 1750, 9-27-
2019)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Scope
4-1-2: Receipt Of Application And Issuance Of License By Mayor; Referral To
Council
4-1-3: Application For License; Approval
4-1-4: Signature And Date Of Issuance Required
4-1-5: Term Of License
4-1-6: Nontransferability Of License; More Than One Location
4-1-7: Record Of Licenses
4-1-8: Compliance With Provisions; Revocation Of License
4-1-9: Appeal Procedure
4-1-10: Enforcement
4-1-1: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall establish the procedure for the issuance
of occupational licenses, when no other procedure is prescribed for the
specific license sought. (1996 Code § 16-17)
4-1-2: RECEIPT OF APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE BY MAYOR; REFERRAL TO
COUNCIL:
The mayor shall receive applications for licenses and grant the licenses in all
cases where it is not otherwise expressly provided, upon the terms and
conditions specified by this code or other city ordinances. However, if the
mayor shall not feel that the mayor is authorized to grant any license for any
purpose, the mayor may report the application to the next meeting of the city
council for its action and instructions thereon, and the mayor shall conform to
such instructions when given. (1996 Code § 16-18)
4-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; APPROVAL:
Any person desiring a license required by this code or other ordinances of the
city for any purpose, except when otherwise expressly provided, shall make a
written application to the mayor therefor, stating the purpose for which the
license is desired, for what length of time, the place where the business is to
be carried on and, if required by this code or other ordinance, shall file a
bond before being licensed, naming the proposed sureties on the bond in the
application. If the mayor shall approve the application, the mayor shall
endorse the same thereon, together with the amount of the license fee, and upon
filing of the application with the city clerk, together with the bond approved
by the mayor and the payment of the amount specified, the city clerk shall
issue to such applicant a license for the purpose and time specified. (1996
Code § 16-19)
4-1-4: SIGNATURE AND DATE OF ISSUANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Signature: Each license issued shall be signed by the mayor and
countersigned by the city clerk under the seal of the city, and no license
shall be valid until signed and countersigned. (1996 Code § 16-20)
   B.   Date Of Issuance: Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
dated the day of issuance thereof. (1996 Code § 16-21; amd. 2010 Code)
4-1-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
Except as otherwise provided for any particular license in this code, no
license shall be granted for a longer period than the then current municipal
year 1 . (1996 Code § 16-22; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-3-2 of this code, definition of "municipal or fiscal year".
4-1-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; MORE THAN ONE LOCATION:
No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be assignable or transferable,
nor shall any person be authorized to do business or act under the license
except the person to whom it is granted, or in any other place than the place
specified therein, without the consent of the city council, to be certified on
the license by the city clerk; nor shall any license issued pursuant to this
chapter authorize any person to act under said license at more than one place
at the same time, nor at any other time than as therein specified. Whoever
shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed to be
acting without a license. (1996 Code § 16-24)
4-1-7: RECORD OF LICENSES:
The city clerk shall keep a license register in which the clerk shall enter the
name of each person licensed, for what purpose licensed, the place of business,
the date of the license, the amount paid and the date of the expiration
thereof. (1996 Code § 16-25)
4-1-8: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to all provisions
of this code or other ordinances relating to the license which may be in force
at the time of the issuance thereof, or which may be subsequently adopted by
the city council; or if a person licensed shall violate any provision of this
code or any other ordinance in relation to the license, the person may be
proceeded against for any fine or penalty imposed thereby, and the license may
be revoked or forfeited, in the discretion of the city council, or of the court
or judge before whom any action may be brought for the recovery of any fine or
penalty. (1996 Code § 16-23; amd. 2010 Code)
4-1-9: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city to
issue a license or by the revocation of a license shall have the right to
appeal the city's decision to the city council. Such appeal shall be requested
by submitting a written request to the mayor within five (5) days of the action
of the city which is appealed.
   B.   City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider the appeal
at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time, the applicant shall be
entitled to present the appeal orally or in writing. The city council shall act
on the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
action of the city or shall direct the issuance of a license which the city has
denied or the reissuance of a license which the city had revoked. (2010 Code)
4-1-10: ENFORCEMENT:
The chief of police shall enforce all provisions of this chapter and other
ordinances of the city in relation to licenses, and from time to time examine
the license register, and prosecute all persons who may be acting without a
license. (1996 Code § 16-26)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Statute Authority; State Regulations Adopted
4-2-2: Liquor Control Commissioner
4-2-3: Compliance With Provisions
4-2-4: License Required; Scope
4-2-5: Persons Ineligible For License
4-2-6: Application For License
4-2-7: License Fees
4-2-8: Bond Requirements
4-2-9: Contents Of License
4-2-10: Expiration Of License
4-2-11: Classes Of Licenses
4-2-12: Number Of Licenses
4-2-13: Nontransferability Of License
4-2-14: Renewal Of License
4-2-15: Change Of Ownership
4-2-16: Records And Notices
4-2-17: Days And Hours Of Operation
4-2-18: Employee Qualifications
4-2-19: Conduct Of Business
4-2-20: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
4-2-21: Persons Under Twenty One Years On Premises
4-2-22: Lewd Entertainment Prohibited
4-2-23: Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
4-2-24: Additional Restricted And Prohibited Acts
4-2-25: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-2-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the provisions of an Act of the General
Assembly of the State, entitled "an Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors", and
known as the "Illinois Liquor Control Law". The applicable provisions of the
Act, particularly the definitions of words and phrases, the qualifications of
licensees, the location and types of construction of premises and places of
business and restrictions upon operations and sales contained therein, are
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set out at length herein.
(1996 Code § 3-1)
4-2-2: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The Mayor shall have the powers with respect to the enforcement of this chapter
which are conferred upon the Mayor by the State Liquor Control Law. The Mayor
shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner for the City and shall have all
the powers granted by law to the Liquor Control Commissioner, including the
right to appoint a person or persons, at such times as the Mayor may think
desirable, to assist in the exercise of the powers and the performance of the
duties as the Liquor Control Commissioner. (1996 Code § 3-2)
4-2-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic beverages at retail in the City except
in conformity with this chapter. (1996 Code § 3-3)
4-2-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; SCOPE:
   A.   License And Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer
for sale at retail, in the City, any alcoholic liquor fit for beverage purposes
and containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume,
without first securing a retail liquor dealer's license therefor in the manner
provided in this chapter, or in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter. (1996 Code § 3-22)
   B.   Scope Of License: No license required by this chapter shall be issued
to any one licensee, whether an individual, firm, association or corporation,
for more than a single location, nor shall any sale of alcoholic liquor be made
under any license except upon the premises described in such license. (1996
Code § 3-33)
4-2-5: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license required by this chapter shall be issued to any person, or
association of persons, who is, or are, not a resident or residents of this
City prior to the time of making application therefor, or to any corporate
entity which does not have its registered office to do business in this City
prior to the time of making application therefor, or who is, or are, not
eligible for a State retail dealer's license as provided by State law. If the
applicant is a partnership or association, all the members of the applicant
shall possess the same qualifications as are required of an individual
applicant. If the applicant is a corporation, all the members and stockholders
of the applicant shall possess the same qualifications as are required of an
individual applicant except residency. (1996 Code § 3-26; amd. 2010 Code; Ord.
1738, 1-29-2019)
4-2-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license required by this chapter shall be made to the Liquor
Control Commissioner, in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual; or
if the applicant is an association, club or corporation, it shall be signed by
the president and secretary thereof; or if the applicant is a partnership, by
all the partners thereof. The application shall be verified by the oath or
affidavit of the persons executing the application and shall contain the
following information:
   A.   The applicant's name, sex, date of birth, social security number,
position and percentage of ownership in the business; and the name, sex, date
of birth, social security number, position and percentage of ownership in the
business of every sole owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager and
any person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the applicant
business entity or parent corporations of the applicant business entity.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, the place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of the naturalization.
   C.   The character of business of the applicant and, in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   D.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character; in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time the
application is made.
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under the license.
   G.   A statement whether the applicant has made a similar application for a
similar or other liquor license on premises other than described in this
application, and the disposition of the application, and if the applicant has
ever had a liquor license denied, the reasons therefor.
   H.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a gambling
offense or felony and, if so, the particulars thereof; and is not disqualified
to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in this chapter
or any other ordinance of the City, or the laws of the State.
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the Federal government, has been revoked or suspended and the reasons therefor.
   J.   Whether the applicant is an elected or appointed public official and,
if so, the particulars thereof.
   K.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
United States or of the State, or any provision of this chapter or other
ordinance of the City in the conduct of the business. (1996 Code § 3-25; amd.
2010 Code)
   L.   A statement that the applicant has obtained or will obtain dram shop
liability insurance as required by State law prior to operation of the alcohol
selling business, and the applicant shall provide a copy of the Certificate of
Insurance to the City when obtained. (Ord. 1738, 1-29-2019)
4-2-7: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Initial Licenses:
      1.   An application for a license, when there are no unused licenses in
the class based on the number of licenses listed in section
4-2-12 of this chapter, shall be accompanied by a certified check in the amount
applicable to the class of license:
Class Of License Fee
Class Of License Fee
A                $1,500.00
B                2,000.00
C                2,500.00
D                1,500.00
E                1,500.00
F                None
G                1,500.00
H                None
I                None
 
      2.   The fees in subsection A1 of this section shall only be charged in
those circumstances in which a license application is for a newly created
license in excess of the number specified in section
4-2-12 of this chapter, and shall not apply for renewals of currently existing
licenses. Applications for renewals of currently existing licenses shall be
accompanied by the fee amounts as indicated in subsection B of this section.
(1996 Code § 3-25; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Annual Fees: The fees for licenses for a full year shall be as follows:
Class Of License Fee
Class Of License Fee
A                $300.00
B                600.00
C                750.00
                 $1.20 per member of such club as the membership shall appear
D                on the books and records thereof as of July 1 of the year for
                 which a license is requested but in no event to exceed
                 $1,500.00
E                $150.00
F                35.00
G                300.00
H                75.00
I                35.00
J                250.00
 
(1996 Code § 3-27; amd. Ord. 1519, 6-17-2008; Ord. 1525, 10-7-2008; 2010 Code;
Ord. 1660, 12-8-2015; Ord. 1739, 2-12-2019)
   C.   Payment Of Fees:
      1.   All of the fees for licenses in subsection B of this section shall
be paid annually on or before July 1 of each year. (1996 Code § 3-27; amd. 2010
Code)
      2.   License fees shall be paid to the City Clerk and accompanied by
renewal application on a form provided by the City Clerk. Those filing
applications between the months of January and June shall be charged one-half
(1/2) of the annual fee at the time of filing.
   D.   Disposition Of Fees; Refunds: The City Clerk shall turn over such fees
to the City Treasurer. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited by the City Treasurer in the General Corporate Fund of the City; if
the license is denied, the fee, or so much thereof as has been paid, shall be
returned to the applicant. (1996 Code § 3-28; amd. 2010 Code)
4-2-8: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Each applicant for a license required by this chapter shall file with the
application a bond in the penal sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), with
good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the Mayor, conditioned upon the
true and faithful compliance by the licensee with all the provisions of this
chapter, the laws of the State and of the United States relating to alcoholic
liquors and for the payment of all fees for the full period for which the
license is issued, together with all fines which may be assessed against the
licensee by reason of having violated any of the provisions of this chapter.
The sureties on the bond, if individuals, shall be residents of the State over
the age of twenty one (21) years and at least one of them a resident of the
County. The sureties shall be owners in fee of real estate located in the
County of the aggregate value of double the amount of the bond, over and above
all exemptions and encumbrances. If a corporate surety executes the bond, it
shall be authorized to do business in the State. (1996 Code § 3-29; amd. 2010
Code)
4-2-9: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall state the date of issuance
and the expiration thereof, the name and address of the licensee or, in case of
a partnership, association or corporation, the names and addresses of all the
partners, members or stockholders thereof, the location and description of the
premises for which it is granted and the class to which it belongs, and shall
be signed by the Mayor as Liquor Control Commissioner. (1996 Code § 3-30; amd.
2010 Code)
4-2-10: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire on June 30 next
following its issuance. (1996 Code § 3-34)
4-2-11: CLASSES OF LICENSES:
Licenses are hereby divided into the following classes: (Ord. 1660, 12-8-2015)
   A.   Class A License: For the sale at retail of beer and wine for
consumption on the premises where sold, or in original packages or containers
for consumption off said premises.
   B.   Class B License: For sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, including beer
and wine, not for consumption on the premises where sold, and only in original
packages or containers; no such package or container to contain less than eight
(8) fluid ounces of such liquor.
   C.   Class C License: For sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, including beer
and wine, for consumption on the premises where sold, or in original package or
container for consumption off said premises.
   D.   Class D License: For sale of alcoholic liquor, including beer and wine,
on premises at clubs. (1996 Code § 3-23; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Class E License: For sale at retail of beer and wine in original
packages or containers for consumption off said premises by convenience stores
whose principal business is not the sale of alcoholic liquor. No signs
advertising the sale or availability of alcoholic beverages may be placed on
the exterior of the property except on permanent advertising marquees that are
used for general advertisement of products. No banners or flags or other
attention getting devices such as flashing lights, etc., are allowed. Beer and
wine may be displayed on the interior of said establishment, but only in such a
way that it would be separate from the other items. If the convenience store is
open twenty four (24) hours every day, said beer and wine must be locked up
during nonsale hours as indicated within this chapter. (Ord. 1230, 5-15-1998;
amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Class F License: A temporary license for a period not to exceed seventy
two (72) hours for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, including beer and
wine, for consumption on the premises where sold, or in the original package or
container for consumption off the premises by a nonprofit corporation or group
or charitable association. (Ord. 1400, 5-27-2003; amd. 2010 Code)
   G.   Class G License: For sale at retail of beer and wine for consumption on
the premises where sold. (2010 Code)
   H.   Class H License: A license for a period not to exceed one year for the
sale at retail of wine at a periodically held farmers' and artisans' market, in
the original packages or containers for consumption off the premises of the
market. Sampling or tasting of the wine shall be allowed. There shall be no
application fee for this license. (Ord. 1525, 10-7-2008; amd. 2010 Code)
   I.   Class I License: A license for a period not to exceed seventy two (72)
hours for the sampling or tasting of wine and beer at a special event or events
and the sale at retail of the sampled wine and beer in the original packages or
containers for consumption off the premises. There shall be no application fee
for this license. (Ord. 1525, 10-7-2008)
   J.   Class J License: Authorizes the retail sale and consumption of
alcoholic liquor within the building located on the premises, provided the
licensed premises also has, locates, maintains and lawfully operates video
gaming terminals 1  within the Class J licensed establishment, pursuant to and
in accordance with the requirements of chapter 8 of this title. The issuance of
Class J licenses shall be subject to the following limitations:
      1.   The holder of a Class J license may not exceed the time and hour
limits as established in section
4-2-17 of this chapter.
      2.   The annual licensing fee may be refunded only if the State gaming
license is denied, less retention of a one hundred twenty five dollar ($125.00)
administrative fee; otherwise, this fee shall not be refundable nor prorated.
      3.   The holder of a Class J license must provide at least one
handicapped-accessible bathroom constructed in compliance with the requirements
of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA compliant) exclusively
within the space occupied by said Class J licensee, and comply with all
Illinois laws with regard to the same.
      4.   No person, entity or establishment shall be eligible to hold a Class
J license if any of its owners have an ownership interest, whether direct or
indirect, in any other establishment holding a Class J license within the City.
Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of all such liquor
licenses.
      5.   Only Class A, C, or D license holders may apply for and receive a
Class J license, which is held in addition to their other valid Class A, C, or
D license. If the State gaming license is denied or revoked, the Class J
license will not be issued or is automatically revoked, however the licensee
will retain their other valid Class A, C, or D license.
      6.   Video gaming cafes, as defined in section
4-8-6 of this title, are ineligible for a Class J license. (Ord. 1739, 2-12-
2019)
 
Notes
1 1. As defined under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
4-2-12: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The City Clerk shall have on file the most recent ordinance setting forth the
current maximum number of each type of license which may be issued in the City.
Notwithstanding the current maximum number of each type of license, upon the
expiration or relinquishment of a license that is not renewed, the maximum
number of available licenses in the class of the expired or relinquished
license shall automatically be reduced by one. (Ord. 1739, 2-12-2019)
4-2-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, except as provided in subsection A of this section, or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws
of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee; provided, that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when
such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of
the sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may
exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after
the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the
expiration of such license but not longer than six (6) months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that
portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be
prevented from operating under such license in the event of the death or
bankruptcy of the licensee. (1996 Code § 3-32; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1738, 1-29-
2019)
   A.   A license may be transferred under certain limited circumstances as
follows:
      1.   The current license holder's business of selling alcoholic beverages
at the current licensed location is under a written contract to be sold, a copy
of which has been provided to the City Clerk along with a completed liquor
license application by the individual(s) or corporate entity owner and
stockholder(s), who are the purchaser(s), and the appropriate license fee(s)
paid, and
      2.   The liquor license application has been approved by the City, and
      3.   The liquor license must remain and is only usable at the same
current licensed location after the sale, and
      4.   The license has not lapsed due to failure to pay the annual license
fee, and
      5.   If the current license holder also holds a Class J license for
operation of video gaming terminals at the same current licensed location, the
purchaser(s) must so indicate on the liquor license application, must pay the
appropriate license fee, and must comply with all Class J license requirements
and State law requirements under the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq. (Ord. 1738, 1-29-2019)
4-2-14: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any licensee may renew the license at the expiration thereof, provided
he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought is suitable for such purpose; and provided further,
that renewal privilege herein provided for shall be construed as a vested right
which shall, in any case, prevent the City Council from decreasing the number
of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction. (1996 Code § 3-32)
   B.   Prior to July 1 of each year, license holders shall apply for renewal
of their license. Said renewal shall be on forms provided by the City and shall
include, but not be limited to, a statement, under oath, by the license holder
that no information contained in the original application has changed, or in
the event of a change, the nature and extent of said change. Further, said
renewal application shall contain a statement, under oath, by the license
holder that the license holder and his employees shall have not been arrested
or convicted of any violations of Illinois law or, in the event of said arrest,
the disposition thereof. (1996 Code § 3-38; amd. 2010 Code)
4-2-15: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
Except as provided in subsection 4-2-13A of this chapter, when a current
license holder's business of selling alcoholic beverages at the current
licensed location is being sold under a written contract, this section shall be
applicable to all other changes of ownership. Any change of ownership of the
license holder shall automatically revoke said license. In the case of a
partnership, any change, addition or substitution of a partner shall constitute
a change, thereby revoking said license. In the case of corporations, sale or
transfer of any stock shall constitute a change, thereby revoking said license.
(1996 Code § 3-32; amd. Ord. 1738, 1-29-2019)
4-2-16: RECORDS AND NOTICES:
The Mayor, as Liquor Control Commissioner, shall keep an accurate and up to
date record of all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter and of the fees
collected, and shall furnish the City Clerk, the City Treasurer and the Chief
of Police with a copy thereof. Upon the revocation of any license, the Mayor
shall give written notice thereof to each of the City officers within twenty
four (24) hours after such action. (1996 Code § 3-31)
4-2-17: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   Permitted Hours: Permitted hours for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor by establishments licensed under this chapter in the City shall be:
      Sunday, 8:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M. the following day.
      Monday through Thursday, 6:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M. the following day.
      Friday and Saturday 6:00 A.M. to 2:00 A.M. the following day.
      Except, the closing hour on New Year's Eve shall be 3:00 A.M. (Ord. 1534,
7-14-2009; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Sales During Permitted Hours Only; Presence On Premises After Hours: It
shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail, give away, or authorize
or allow the consumption of any alcoholic liquor within a licensed
establishment in the City at any time other than during the permitted hours
stated in subsection A of this section. All licensed establishments shall have
ten (10) minutes after the closing hours stated in said subsection A to allow
patrons to vacate the premises each night, including New Year's Eve. Only
owners and employees of the licensed establishment may remain on the premises
after this ten (10) minute period.
   C.   Effect Of Time Changes: No time will be lost or gained in the spring or
fall, respectively, on the dates on which the time changes to and from daylight
saving time. Closing hours on these time change days will be based on the real
time elapsed for the day. (Ord. 1534, 7-14-2009)
4-2-18: EMPLOYEE QUALIFICATIONS:
All persons drawing or serving alcoholic beverages in an establishment in the
City holding a liquor license shall be of the age of twenty one (21) except for
those places or businesses whose primary business is the preparing and serving
of food. In such establishments, a person of the age of eighteen (18) years or
older shall be able to draw or serve alcoholic beverages for those patrons who
are eating at said places of business. (1996 Code § 3-11)
4-2-19: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to whom a license has been issued pursuant
to this chapter to permit on the premises for which the license was issued any
loud or unusual noises which disturb the peace and quiet of any neighborhood or
family, or to permit any disorderly or immoral practices, or to permit any
disorderly conduct, open lewdness or any act of public indecency. (1996 Code §
3-10)
4-2-20: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No licensee under this chapter shall sell, give away or deliver, or allow the
same to be done, any alcoholic liquor or malt or vinous beverage to any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any intoxicated person, except as
provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-16.1. (Ord. 1201, 3-11-1997;
amd. 2010 Code)
4-2-21: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE YEARS ON PREMISES:
   A.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall patronize,
frequent or loiter in any establishment deriving its principal business from
the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
   B.   No licensee, under this chapter, or his agent or employee, shall suffer
or permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to remain in any
room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place
where such licensed premises are located; provided, however, that this
prohibition shall not apply to any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years who is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or to any licensed
premises which derives its principal business from the sale of service or of
commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
   C.   Any licensee which provides proof to the Liquor Control Commissioner
that its principal business is derived from the sale of service or commodities,
other than alcoholic liquor, may permit persons under the age of twenty one
(21) years into rooms or compartments adjoining or adjacent to the primary room
or place where such licensee provides the sale of alcoholic liquor, but not
into the primary room provided therefor.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a person under the
age of twenty one (21) years who is a lawful employee of a licensed retail
premises under the provisions of this chapter during the time such person under
the age of twenty one (21) years is actually engaged in such employment and to
the extent necessary in connection therewith. (Ord. 1201, 3-11-1997; amd. 2010
Code)
4-2-22: LEWD ENTERTAINMENT PROHIBITED:
No person licensed under this chapter shall permit any employee, entertainer or
patron to engage in any live act, demonstration, dance, or exhibition on the
licensed premises which:
   A.   Exposes his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
   B.   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
   C.   Exposes any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof. (1996 Code § 3-36)
4-2-23: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no driver may
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a highway in the City except in the original
container and with the seal unbroken.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section and 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-33, no passenger may carry, possess or have any alcoholic
liquor within any passenger area of any motor vehicle upon a roadway in the
City except in the original container and with the seal unbroken.
   C.   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a "motor home" or "mini-motor home"
as defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-145.01. However, the driver of
any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in
or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcohol consumption by the driver
shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this section.
For the purposes of this section, a "limousine" is a motor vehicle of the first
division with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or dividing
window used in the for-hire transportation of passengers and operated by an
individual in possession of a valid Illinois driver's license of the
appropriate classification pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-104.
(1996 Code § 3-4; amd. 2010 Code)
4-2-24: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Curb Service: It shall be unlawful to serve or permit alcoholic liquor
to be served in automobiles or any other vehicle in or upon the premises, or
upon the streets, highways, sidewalks or alleys adjacent or adjoining the
premises described in any license issued pursuant to this chapter, which manner
of serving is commonly known as "curb service". However, this shall not apply
to package liquor sales not intended for consumption inside the automobile.
(1996 Code § 3-5)
   B.   Possession By Class A Licensee: It shall be unlawful for any person
holding a Class A license issued pursuant to this chapter to keep, store or
have in his possession on the premises for which the license is issued any
alcoholic beverage other than beer and wine. (1996 Code § 3-7)
   C.   Consumption On Class A And B Premises: It shall be unlawful for any
person holding a Class A or a Class B license issued pursuant to this chapter
to permit the mixing or drinking of alcoholic drinks upon the premises for
which the license is issued, except beer and wine in the case of a Class A
license holder. (1996 Code § 3-8)
   D.   Drinking Alcoholic Beverages Outside Public Places Or Upon Public Ways:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the City limits to drink any beer,
wine, or other alcoholic liquor outside of a public place or upon the streets
or sidewalks. (1996 Code § 3-12; amd. 2010 Code)
4-2-25: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any license
issued by him if he determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the Liquor Control Act, this chapter, or any applicable rule or
regulation established by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or the State
Liquor Control Commission which is not inconsistent with law. In addition to
the suspension, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may levy a fine on the
licensee for such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve (12) month period,
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a
twelve (12) month period, and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for
a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day on
which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more
than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines under this section may be
imposed against any licensee during the period of his license. Proceeds from
such fines shall be paid into the General Corporate Fund of the City Treasury.
   B.   However, no such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee
affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings
shall be open to the public, and the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
electronically record all proceedings and reduce all transcripts to writing if
requested, and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings. If the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community, he may, upon the issuance of a written order stating
the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee
an opportunity to be heard during that period; except, that if such licensee
shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   C.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within five (5) days after
such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason or
reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the amount of the
fine, the period of suspension, or that the license has been revoked, and shall
serve a copy of such order within the five (5) days upon the licensee. (1996
Code § 3-35; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS; COIN OPERATED DEVICES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Application Of Provisions
4-3-2: Amusements And Entertainments
4-3-3: Coin Operated Amusement Devices; Play For Pay Games
4-3-4: Coin Operated Music Devices
4-3-5: Cigarette Machines
4-3-6: Revocation Of License
4-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Each license granted under the provisions of this chapter and each licensee
herein shall be subject to the provisions of this code. (1996 Code § 4-2; amd.
2010 Code)
4-3-2: AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS:
   A.   License Fees: The fees for the various classes of entertainment
licenses required by this section shall be as established from time to time by
the city council by resolution or ordinance. (1996 Code § 4-1)
   B.   Good Order; Presence Of Police: Each person giving or conducting any
exhibition, show or amusement shall preserve good order in and about the place
of the exhibition, show or amusement and, if necessary for that purpose, shall
employ, at his own expense, sufficient security personnel to maintain good
order. (1996 Code § 4-4; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Admission Of Police Officers To Premises: Any regular police officer of
the city, while on duty, shall be entitled, without charge or hindrance, to
enter any place of business where any entertainment is being given or is to be
given for the purpose of preserving order therein and enforcing the provisions
of this code and other ordinances of the city, and no owner, manager or lessee
of any place of business or his agent shall prohibit or attempt to prohibit or
interfere with or attempt to interfere with any such police officer. (1996 Code
§ 4-3)
4-3-3: COIN OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES; PLAY FOR PAY GAMES:
   A.   License Required: No person shall allow the public to use any coin
operated amusement device or play for pay device in any public or private place
without first obtaining a license for each such machine, as provided in this
section. (1996 Code § 4-21)
   B.   Application For License: The application for and issuance of a license
required by this section shall be made as provided by the provisions of this
title regulating licenses 1 . The application shall give the name of the
applicant, a description of the machine, including the factory, model or other
distinguishing number or identification, and the denomination of the coins
required for its operation or the value of the token used in lieu thereof.
(1996 Code § 4-22)
   C.   License Fees:
      1.   The annual fee for a license required by this section shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   The weekly fee for a license required by this section shall be five
dollars ($5.00) per machine. (1996 Code § 4-23)
   D.   Expiration Of License: Each annual license issued pursuant to this
section shall expire on December 31 next following its issuance, and each
weekly license shall expire on the seventh day of its issuance. (1996 Code § 4-
24)
   E.   Display Of License: A license issued pursuant to this section shall be
affixed in a conspicuous place in or upon the machine for which it is issued.
(1996 Code § 4-25)
   F.   Billiard And Pool Halls; Days And Hours Of Operation: Any license under
subsection A of this section, whose primary business is billiards or pool
tables, may be open to business during the hours set forth in section
4-2-17 of this title. (Ord. 1202, 3-25-1997)
   G.   Presence Of Intoxicated Persons Prohibited: No licensee under
subsection A of this section, whose primary business is billiards or pool
tables or any coin operated amusement device or play for pay games, shall allow
any intoxicated individual to frequent or loiter about or remain in the
premises or to play at any game or roll any ball upon any such table therein.
(1996 Code § 4-53)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
4-3-4: COIN OPERATED MUSIC DEVICES:
   A.   License Required: No person shall allow the public to use any coin
operated music device or play for pay device in any public or private place
without first obtaining a license for each such machine, as provided in this
section. (1996 Code § 4-27)
   B.   Application For License: The application for a license required by this
section shall be made as provided by the provisions of this title regulating
licenses 1 . The application shall give the name of the applicant, a
description of the machine, including the factory, model or other
distinguishing number or identification, and the denomination of the coins
required for its operation or the value of the token used in lieu thereof.
(1996 Code § 4-28)
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee for a license required by this section
shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00). (1996 Code § 4-29)
   D.   Expiration Of License: Each license issued pursuant to this section
shall expire on December 31 next following its issuance. (1996 Code § 4-30)
   E.   Display Of License: A license issued pursuant to this section shall be
affixed in a conspicuous place in or upon the machine for which it is issued.
(1996 Code § 4-31)
 
Notes
1 2. See chapter 1 of this title.
4-3-5: CIGARETTE MACHINES:
   A.   License Required: No person shall allow the public to use any coin
operated cigarette machines in any public or private place without first
obtaining a license for each such machine, as provided in this section. (1996
Code § 4-33)
   B.   Application For License: The application for and issuance of a license
required by this section shall be made as provided by the provisions of this
title regulating licenses 1 . The application shall give the name of the
applicant, a description of the machine, including the factory, model or other
distinguishing number or identification, and the denomination of the coins
required for its operation. (1996 Code § 4-34; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee for a license required by this section
shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00). (1996 Code § 4-35)
   D.   Expiration Of License: Each license issued pursuant to this section
shall expire on December 31 next following its issuance. (1996 Code § 4-36)
   E.   Display Of License: A license issued pursuant to this section shall be
affixed in a conspicuous place in or upon the machine for which it is issued.
(1996 Code § 4-37)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
4-3-6: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Whenever, in the judgment of the city council, any section of this chapter or
any of the conditions in the application for license for any machine described
herein has been or is being violated, the council may, in its discretion,
revoke the license of any or all machines on the premises. (1996 Code § 4-72)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Exemptions From Provisions
4-4-2: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The following shall be exempt from the application and license requirements of
this chapter:
   A.   Nonprofit Organizations: Any person selling or taking orders for any
goods or services not prohibited by law on behalf of a nonprofit organization,
educational institution located in Jersey County, or fraternal organization
sponsored by or participated in by a local chapter of such organization.
   B.   Celebrations: Any person selling or taking orders for goods or services
not prohibited by law while participating in any fair, festival, parade or
other celebration conducted by organizations, educational institutions or
committees located in Jersey County and approved by the city council.
   C.   Garage Or Yard Sales: Any sale of merchandise, goods or wares conducted
at any residence in the city, not located in the business district, commonly
referred to as a garage or yard sale, provided such sale shall be conducted for
a period not to exceed three (3) consecutive days.
   D.   Persons Under Age Of Twelve: Sales by any person under the age of
twelve (12) years. (1996 Code § 16-102)
   E.   Jersey County Residents: Jersey County residents selling home grown
products from a stand. (Ord. 1183, 6-4-1996)
4-4-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the terms of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty offense and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than twenty five
dollars ($25.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each
day's violation shall constitute a separate offense. (1996 Code §§ 16-103, 16-
128; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE A. PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
SECTION:
4-4A-1: Definition
4-4A-2: License Required; Exception
4-4A-3: Application For And Issuance Of License
4-4A-4: License Fee
4-4A-5: Expiration Of License
4-4A-1: DEFINITION:
Whoever shall peddle or sell or attempt to peddle or sell, or hawk or attempt
to hawk goods, wares, merchandise or other articles from door to door and place
to place in the city shall be, for this article, a "hawker" or "peddler". (1996
Code § 16-66; amd. 2010 Code)
4-4A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a hawker or
peddler in the city without first obtaining a license therefor as provided in
this article. No license otherwise required by this section shall be required
of any person to sell vegetables or other produce of his own farm or garden.
(1996 Code § 16-74)
4-4A-3: APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The application for and the issuance of a license required by this article
shall be as established in chapter 1 of this title. (1996 Code § 16-75)
4-4A-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Established By Ordinance Or Resolution: The fee for a license required
by this article shall be as established from time to time by the city council
by ordinance or resolution. (1996 Code § 16-76)
   B.   Exemption From Fee: Whenever, in the judgment of the mayor, it would be
proper to allow any person in need to sell or peddle notions or other like
property without requiring the license fee otherwise established pursuant to
subsection A of this section to be paid, the mayor may grant such person a
permit to sell free of charge, which permit may be revoked at any time in the
discretion of the mayor. (1996 Code § 16-76; amd. 2010 Code)
4-4A-5: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
A license issued pursuant to this article shall expire at the end of the fiscal
year of the city during which it was issued. (1996 Code § 16-77)
CHAPTER 4
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
ARTICLE B. ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND TRANSIENT VENDORS
SECTION:
4-4B-1: Definition
4-4B-2: License Required; Conditions
4-4B-3: Application For And Issuance Of License
4-4B-4: License Fees
4-4B-5: Term Of License
4-4B-6: Posting Of License
4-4B-7: Record Of Licenses
4-4B-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this article, any person, whether or not the person is an
employee of another person, who, on real property in which he does not hold a
fee simple interest, or does not have a leasehold interest of at least six (6)
months, establishes a display, exhibition, or sales facility for the purpose of
selling, offering, or displaying for sale and immediate delivery of tangible
personal property at retail, or sale of food shall be considered an "itinerant
merchant" or "transient vendor" for purposes of this article, if: (1996 Code §
16-89; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   The display, exhibition, or sales facility is established with the
intent that such display, exhibition, or sales facility will remain in
operation for a period of less than six (6) months; or
   B.   The display, exhibition, or sales facility is established with the
intent that its operation will be interrupted for a period of more than ninety
(90) days in any calendar year; or
   C.   The display, exhibition, or sales facility is established in a
temporary structure, including, but not limited to, travel trailers, mobile
homes, or tents. (1996 Code § 16-89)
4-4B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as principal, agent, attorney,
clerk, servant, employee or officer of a corporation, to engage in, carry on,
or assist in carrying on the business, occupation, or calling of an itinerant
merchant or transient vendor of any merchandise, wares, goods, or prepared food
within the city without first obtaining a license therefor as provided in this
article. No itinerant merchant or transient vendor shall be allowed to evade
the provisions of this article by employing an auctioneer to sell his goods.
(1996 Code § 16-96; amd. 2010 Code)
4-4B-3: APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Application for a license required by this article and the issuance thereof
shall be in the manner prescribed in chapter 1 of this title. (1996 Code § 16-
97)
4-4B-4: LICENSE FEES:
The license fees for selling all classes of goods, wares, and merchandise and
prepared food shall be four hundred dollars ($400.00) per month or twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per day. (1996 Code § 16-98)
4-4B-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
No license shall be issued pursuant to this article for a period of time less
than one month. (1996 Code § 16-99)
4-4B-6: POSTING OF LICENSE:
A person to whom a license is issued pursuant to this article shall keep the
license posted in a conspicuous place in his place of business. (1996 Code §
16-100)
4-4B-7: RECORD OF LICENSES:
The city clerk shall keep a record of all licenses granted under this article,
in which shall be recorded the name of the person licensed, the time of issuing
the license and the place of business of the person so licensed. (1996 Code §
16-101)
ARTICLE C. SOLICITORS
SECTION:
4-4C-1: Definition
4-4C-2: License And Certificate Of Registration Required
4-4C-3: Persons Ineligible For Certificate
4-4C-4: Applications For License And Certificate
4-4C-5: License Fee
4-4C-6: Issuance Or Denial Of Certificate
4-4C-7: Contents Of Certificate
4-4C-8: Time Limit On Soliciting
4-4C-9: Revocation Of Certificate
4-4C-10: Exemptions From Provisions
4-4C-1: DEFINITION:
Any person who shall go in and upon private residences, business establishments
or offices in the city for the purpose of soliciting orders for the purchase of
any merchandise or commodity, or for the purpose of accepting contributions for
any purpose or for the purpose of distribution of informational literature
which may eventually lead to a sale of any merchandise or commodity shall be
deemed a "solicitor" within the meaning of this article. (1996 Code § 16-114;
amd. 2010 Code)
4-4C-2: LICENSE AND CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business in the city as a
solicitor without first obtaining a license and certificate of registration
therefor as prescribed in this article. (1996 Code § 16-124)
4-4C-3: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR CERTIFICATE:
No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois
or any other state or federal law of the United States within five (5) years of
the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter; nor to any person whose
certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as
herein provided. (1996 Code § 16-125)
4-4C-4: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE AND CERTIFICATE:
   A.   License: Any person who desires a license as a solicitor, required by
this article, shall make application in writing therefor to the mayor, setting
out in the application the full name and residence of the applicant and the
company by whom he is employed as a solicitor. The application shall also state
what commodity or article of merchandise such solicitor desires or intends to
sell, or for what purpose contributions are being sought. (1996 Code § 16-125;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Certificate Of Registration: Application for a certificate of
registration shall be made upon a form provided by the chief of police of the
city and filed with such chief. The application shall truthfully state in full
the information requested on the application, as follows:
      1.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also business address if other than residence
address; also social security number.
      2.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if
other than present address.
      3.   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married, the name of the
applicant's spouse.
      4.   Physical description of applicant.
      5.   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation.
      6.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if
other than the present employer.
      7.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage.
      8.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied.
      9.   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
certificate under this article, if any.
      10.   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this article ever been revoked?
      11.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this article or an ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting?
      12.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or federal laws of
the United States?
      13.   Also, such additional information as the chief of police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   C.   Records Of Applications: The chief of police shall cause to be kept in
his office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon,
together with all other information and data pertaining thereto and all
certificates of registration issued under the provisions of this article, and
of the denial of applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered
in consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal
thereof shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued. (1996 Code § 16-125)
4-4C-5: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a license required by this article shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day, per person, in advance. (1996 Code § 16-126; amd. 2010 Code)
4-4C-6: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE:
The chief of police, after consideration of the application and all information
obtained relative hereto, shall deny the application if the applicant does not
possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein required or if the
issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant would not be in
accord with the intent and purpose of this article. Endorsement shall be made
by the chief of police upon the application of the denial of the application.
When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate of
registration shall be issued forthwith. (1996 Code § 16-127)
4-4C-7: CONTENTS OF CERTIFICATE:
The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date thereof. (1996
Code § 16-127)
4-4C-8: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to solicit as defined in this article C, whether registered under this
article C or not, on Saturdays, Sundays, and state and national holidays. It
shall be lawful to solicit on weekdays Monday through Friday from nine o’clock
(9:00) A.M. to five o’clock (5:00) P.M. each day, except on state and national
holidays. (Ord. 1812, 6-11-2024)
4-4C-9: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
Any certificate of registration issued under this article shall be revoked by
the chief of police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of violating
any of the provisions of this article, or has made a false material statement
in the application, or has otherwise become disqualified for the issuance of a
certificate of registration under the terms of this article. Immediately upon
such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the chief of police
to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed
to his or her residence as set forth by the application. Immediately upon the
giving of such notice, the certificate of registration shall become null and
void. (1996 Code § 16-127)
4-4C-10: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS 1 :
The provisions of this article shall not apply to persons represented by or
representing any established merchant, business or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the city, nor to farmers selling food items raised
or produced by themselves, nor to permanently established residents who are
voters in the city, to anyone duly licensed or to anyone who seeks and obtains,
at a regularly held city council meeting, the permission of the city council to
be excepted from the provisions of this article. (1996 Code § 16-115; amd. 2010
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-4-1 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 5
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definition
4-5-2: License Required
4-5-3: Persons Ineligible For License
4-5-4: Application For License
4-5-5: License Fee
4-5-6: Bond Requirements
4-5-7: Issuance Or Denial Of License
4-5-8: Records Of Property
4-5-9: Memorandum To Pledgor
4-5-10: Prohibited Transactions
4-5-11: Minors
4-5-12: Hours Of Operation
4-5-13: Revocation Of License
4-5-14: Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITION:
Every individual or business entity which lends money on the deposit or pledge
of physically delivered personal property, other than property the ownership of
which is subject to a legal dispute, securities, printed evidence of
indebtedness or printed evidence of ownership of the personal property, or who
deals in the purchase of such property on the condition of selling the property
back again at a stipulated price, shall be held and is hereby declared and
defined to be a "pawnbroker". The business of a "pawnbroker" does not include
the lending of money on deposit or pledge of title to property. (Ord. 1276, 11-
2-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or business entity to engage in, carry on,
manage, operate or conduct the business of a pawnbroker within the city without
first having obtained a pawnbroker license to so operate. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-
1999; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-3: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
No license shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of any felony
or any misdemeanor pertaining to theft or the possession of stolen property;
nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter; nor to any person whose license issued hereunder
has previously been revoked as herein provided. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999; amd.
2010 Code)
4-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any person who desires a license required by this chapter as a
pawnbroker shall make application in writing therefor to the mayor, setting out
in the application the full name and residence of the applicant and the company
by whom he is employed.
   B.   Application for a license shall be made upon a form provided by the
chief of police of the city and filed with such chief. The application shall
truthfully state, in full, the information requested on the application, as
follows: (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999)
      1.   Names and addresses of present places of residence and length of
residence at such addresses of all owners, partners, managers, or officers or
shareholders of a corporation; also, business addresses if other than residence
addresses; also, social security numbers. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999; amd. 2010
Code)
      2.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years if
other than present address.
      3.   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married, the name of
applicant's spouse.
      4.   Physical description of applicant.
      5.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years.
      6.   The date or approximate date of the latest previous pawnshop
operated by the applicant.
      7.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of any
crime?
      8.   Also, such additional information as the chief of police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   C.   The chief of police shall cause to be kept in his office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon, together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto, and of the denial of applications.
(Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999)
4-5-5: LICENSE FEE:
The fee for a license required by this chapter shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) per year, in advance. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999)
4-5-6: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Every person so licensed shall, at the time of receiving such license, execute
a bond to the city in the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) with at least
two (2) good and sufficient sureties, conditioned for the due observance of the
provisions of this code, respecting pawnbrokers, at any time during the
continuance of such license. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-7: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The mayor, after investigation of the application and all information obtained
relative thereto by the chief of police, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such license as herein
required or if the issuance of a certificate of license to the applicant would
not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this chapter. Endorsement shall
be made by the chief of police upon the application of the denial of the
application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the license
shall be issued forthwith. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999)
4-5-8: RECORDS OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Records Required; Contents: Every pawnbroker shall keep a book in which
shall be printed, typed or written in ink, at the time of each and every loan
or taking of a pledge, an accurate account and description, in the English
language, of all the goods, articles and other things pawned or pledged, the
amount of money, value or thing loaned thereon, the time of pledging the same,
the rate of interest to be paid on such loan, and the name and residence of the
person making such pawn or pledge. Such entry shall include the serial number
or identification number of items received which bear such number. Except for
items purchased from dealers possessing a federal employee identification
number who have provided a receipt to the pawnbroker, every pawnbroker shall
also record in his book, an accurate account and description, in the English
language, of all goods, articles and other things purchased or received for the
purpose of resale or loan collateral by the pawnbroker from any source, not in
the course of a pledge or loan, the time of such purchase or receipt and the
name and address of the person or business which sold or delivered such goods,
articles, or other things to the pawnbroker. No entry in such book shall be
erased, mutilated or changed.
   B.   Open To Inspection; Time For Retention: The said book, as well as every
article or other thing of value so pawned or pledged, shall at all times be
open to the inspection of the mayor or any members of the police force of the
city and shall be kept three (3) years after the date on which the record was
prepared. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Daily Copy Of Records: It shall be the duty of every person licensed as
aforesaid to make out and deliver to the chief of police of the city, on each
day before the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, a legible and correct copy
from said book, as required in subsection A of this section, of all personal
property and other valuable things received on deposit or purchased during the
preceding day, together with the exact time when received or purchased, and a
description of the person or persons by whom left in pledge, or from whom the
same were purchased. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999)
4-5-9: MEMORANDUM TO PLEDGOR:
Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of each loan, deliver to the person pawning
or pledging any goods, articles or things, a memorandum, contract or note
signed by him, containing the substance of the entry required to be made in his
book by subsection 4-5-8A of this chapter, and no charge shall be made or
received by any pawnbroker for any such entry, memorandum, contract or note.
(Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-10: PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS:
   A.   Property Of Intoxicated Person Or Thief: No pawnbroker shall take any
article in pawn or pledge from any person appearing to be intoxicated, nor from
any person known to have been convicted of theft; and when any person is found
to be the owner of stolen property which has been pawned, such property shall
be returned to the owner thereof, without the payment of the money advanced by
the pawnbroker thereon, or any costs or charges of any kind, which the
pawnbroker may have placed upon the same.
   B.   Purchases By Pawnbroker: No pawnbroker shall, under any pretense
whatever, purchase or buy any secondhand furniture, metals or clothes or any
other article or thing whatever offered to him as a pawn or pledge.
   C.   Sale Of Property: No personal property received on deposit or pledge or
purchased by any pawnbroker shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed or
removed from the place of business of such pawnbroker for the space of forty
eight (48) hours after the delivery of the copy and statement required by
subsection 4-5-8C of this chapter required to be delivered to the chief of
police. If the pawner or pledger fails to repay the loan during the period
specified on the pawn ticket, the pawnbroker shall automatically extend a grace
period of thirty (30) days from the default date on the loan during which the
pawnbroker shall not dispose of or sell the personal property pledged. The
parties may agree to extend or renew a loan upon terms agreed upon by the
parties, provided the terms comply with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
1276, 11-2-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
4-5-11: MINORS:
   A.   Pledge From Minor: No pawnbroker shall take or receive any pawn or
pledge for any advancement or loan, any property of any kind from any minor who
is under eighteen (18) years of age, or the ownership of which is in, or which
is claimed by, any such minor, or which may be in the possession or under the
control of any such minor. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Employment: No person licensed under this chapter shall permit any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years to take pledges in pawn for him.
(Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999)
4-5-12: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No person licensed under this chapter shall receive or deposit or pledge any
personal property or other valuable thing before the hour of six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. or after the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. during the months of
January, February, March, April, October, November and December of each year;
nor before the hour of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. or after the hour of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. during the months of May, June, July, August and September
of each year. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999)
4-5-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued hereunder shall be revoked by the mayor if the holder of the
license is convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or has
made a false material statement in the application, or has otherwise become
disqualified for the issuance of a license under the terms of this chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
chief of police to the holder of the license in person or by certified U.S.
mail addressed to his or her residence as set forth by the application.
Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the license shall become null and
void. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999)
4-5-14: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00), nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1276, 11-2-1999;
amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TAXICABS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Owner Licensing Provisions
4-6-3: Driver Licensing Provisions
4-6-4: Record Of Licenses
4-6-5: Vehicles To Be Identified
4-6-6: Rates Of Fare
4-6-7: Operation Of Taxicab
4-6-8: Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
DRIVER: Means and includes every person in charge of or operating any taxicab,
either as an agent, employee or otherwise.
OWNER: Any person who has the bona fide legal title or the control, direction,
operation, maintenance, leasing or collection of revenues derived from taxicabs
operated for hire on the streets in the city.
TAXICAB: All motor vehicles propelled and operated for passenger hire subject
to call from a stand, station or garage or otherwise operating for hire, except
motor buses running and operating on established routes, sightseeing buses and
funeral vehicles. (1996 Code § 29-16)
4-6-2: OWNER LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall own any taxicab without first
obtaining a taxicab license therefor as provided in this section. (1996 Code §
29-47)
   B.   Application For License: Any person desiring a license required by this
section shall file an application therefor with the city clerk upon a form
provided for that purpose, setting forth the name, business and residence
address of the applicant; a full description of the motor vehicle for which the
license is desired, including the make, model, vehicle number and number of
passengers that may be accommodated in the motor vehicle; the place where the
motor vehicle is to be kept when not in use; the number and kinds of other
motor vehicles owned by the applicant; the state license number of the motor
vehicle; the persons engaged to drive the motor vehicle; and any other
information as the mayor or the city clerk may from time to time require. (1996
Code § 29-49)
   C.   Insurance Requirements: The applicant for a license required by this
section shall file with the city clerk a contract or policy of insurance,
issued to the applicant for the full period to be covered by the license, upon
the motor vehicle for which the license is applied. The contract or policy of
insurance shall meet the requirements of state law for financial
responsibility. The mayor may refer any contract or policy of insurance filed
pursuant to this subsection to the city attorney for recommendation as to
approval and as to whether or not the policy conforms to the requirements of
the state. (1996 Code § 29-50)
   D.   License Fee: The applicant for a license required by this section shall
pay to the city clerk an annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00). In the
event the license is not issued, the fee shall be refunded by the city clerk to
the applicant. (1996 Code § 29-51)
   E.   Issuance Of License: In the event the applicant for a license required
by this section fully complies with the requirements of this section and pays
the license fee specified in this section for the taxicab, the mayor shall
issue or cause to be issued the license sought, which license shall be attested
by the city clerk and shall authorize the use of such taxicab for the
transportation of persons for hire upon the streets and public thoroughfares of
the city. (1996 Code § 29-52)
   F.   Expiration Of License: A license issued pursuant to this section shall
expire on December 31 next following its issuance. (1996 Code § 29-53)
   G.   Display Of License Sticker: Each taxicab which may be licensed pursuant
to this section and operated in the city shall exhibit a sticker, which shall
be provided by the city clerk, which shall not be less than four inches (4") in
diameter, and said sticker shall indicate that a license has been issued for
the taxicab to the owner or operator thereof and which sticker shall be placed
on the windshield of the taxicab operated under the license. (1996 Code § 29-
54)
   H.   Number Of Licenses; Revocation: There shall not be more than three (3)
taxicab owners' licenses issued in the city for any one year. Such three (3)
licenses may be owned by the same person, in which case, they shall be subject
to revocation if such person ceases to furnish taxicab service or fails to give
adequate and satisfactory service to the public. (1996 Code § 29-48)
4-6-3: DRIVER LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required; Scope: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive,
operate or be in charge of any taxicab in the city without first obtaining a
license therefor in writing from the mayor. Each license issued pursuant to
this section shall entitle the holder thereof to drive a taxicab licensed
pursuant to this chapter for the current license year, upon the payment of the
license fee. (1996 Code §§ 29-32, 29-40)
   B.   Persons Ineligible For License: No license required by this section
shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the violation of any
felony or law against reckless driving; or who is less than eighteen (18) years
of age; or who is not physically or morally a person who should be permitted to
operate a taxicab; or where the safety of the public might be endangered by the
granting of the license. (1996 Code § 29-38; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Contents Of Application: A person desiring a license required by
this section shall file with the mayor an application in writing upon forms
furnished by the city clerk. The application shall state the experience of the
applicant in driving motor vehicles; the physical condition, including the
eyesight and hearing, of the applicant; whether such person has ever been
convicted for violation of any motor vehicle or traffic ordinance or law or
felony, whether city, county, state or federal, and the number of times, if
any, and the various offenses charged. (1996 Code § 29-33; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Physician's Statement: In case an application filed pursuant to this
section is for an original license and not the renewal of a license previously
issued, the application shall be accompanied by the signed statement of a
practicing physician that the applicant is physically fit to operate a taxicab
and has no uncorrected defects in eyesight and no impairment of hearing. (1996
Code § 29-34)
      3.   Photographs:
         a.   Each applicant for a license required by this section shall file
with his application two (2) recent photographs of himself, of a size which may
be easily attached to his license, one of which shall be attached to the
license when issued and the other of which shall be kept with the application.
The photograph shall be so attached to the license that it cannot be removed
and another photograph substituted without detection. (1996 Code § 29-35)
         b.   In the event the application for a license required by this
section is denied, the photographs submitted pursuant to subsection C3a of this
section shall be returned to the applicant. (1996 Code § 29-35; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   License Fee: The annual fee for each original license required by this
section, or the renewal thereof, shall be ten dollars ($10.00). (1996 Code §
29-36; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Investigation Of Applicant: The mayor shall investigate, or cause to be
investigated, the facts stated in the application for a license required by
this section, before issuing the license. (1996 Code § 29-37)
   F.   Issuance Of License: The mayor, upon finding the applicant for a
license required by this section to be eligible for the license, shall issue a
metal badge of such design and bearing such words and numerals as may be
prescribed by the mayor, with the driver's license number thereon; and shall
also issue a cardboard license for the current license year of such size and
design as may be prescribed by the mayor, containing the name of the driver and
with his photograph fastened thereon as prescribed in this section. (1996 Code
§ 29-39)
   G.   Presentation Of License: Each driver licensed pursuant to this section
shall, upon demand of an inspector of licenses, a police officer or a
passenger, exhibit his license and photograph for inspection. (1996 Code § 29-
41)
4-6-4: RECORD OF LICENSES:
There shall be kept in the office of the city clerk a complete record of each
taxicab license and of each license issued to a driver pursuant to this
chapter, and of all renewals, suspensions and revocations thereof, which record
shall be kept on file with the original applications for licenses. (1996 Code §
29-17)
4-6-5: VEHICLES TO BE IDENTIFIED:
Each taxicab licensed pursuant to this chapter shall have painted, printed or
attached thereto in the center of one of the door panels on each side of the
taxicab, in letters at least two inches (2") in height, the name of the company
or individual operating the taxicab. There shall also be painted or printed on
the front and back of the taxicab a numeral indicating the number of the
taxicab, if more than one cab is operated by any person, which numeral shall be
at least six inches (6") in height. (1996 Code § 29-18)
4-6-6: RATES OF FARE:
The maximum rates which may be charged by an owner licensed pursuant to this
chapter shall be as established from time to time by the city council by
ordinance or resolution. (1996 Code § 29-19)
4-6-7: OPERATION OF TAXICAB:
   A.   Drivers Remain In Taxicab; Exceptions: The driver of a taxicab subject
to this chapter shall remain upon the driver's seat or inside his taxicab at
all times while the taxicab is standing upon a public stand; however, nothing
in this subsection shall prohibit a driver from leaving the taxicab for such
times as may be necessary to assist passengers into or out of his taxicab, nor
from leaving the taxicab for such a length of time as may be necessary for him
to use the telephone in connection with the operation of the taxicab. Loitering
or standing upon the sidewalks or in the lobbies or entrances of buildings or
stores by taxicab drivers shall be unlawful. (1996 Code § 29-20)
   B.   Prepayment Of Fare: Every driver of a taxicab shall have the right to
demand the payment of the regular fare in advance and may refuse employment
unless so prepaid; but no driver of a taxicab shall refuse or neglect, upon
request, to convey any orderly person so tendering the fare in advance to any
place in the city, unless the driver is previously engaged. (1996 Code § 29-21)
   C.   Carrying Other Than Original Passenger: No driver of a taxicab subject
to this chapter shall carry any person other than the passenger by whom he has
been engaged without the consent of the passenger. (1996 Code § 29-22)
   D.   Maximum Number Of Passengers: No more than five (5) persons, in
addition to the driver of any taxicab subject to this chapter, shall be carried
at any one time. (1996 Code § 29-23)
   E.   Soliciting Business Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person in
the taxicab business, his employees, servants or agents, to travel or operate
over or upon the streets of the city in the act of solicitation of passengers
for hire. (1996 Code § 29-24)
   F.   Operation From Taxicab Stands: An owner or his employees, servants or
agents shall render service on demand from taxicab stands, the location and
places thereof to be designated or approved by the mayor. (1996 Code § 29-25)
4-6-8: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
The mayor and the city council shall have the authority to revoke or suspend
the license of any taxicab owner whose vehicle is not found safe or in good
condition, and the mayor may revoke any license issued under the provisions of
this chapter for failure on the part of any owner, operator, driver, lessee or
licensee to comply with all of the provisions of this chapter, or for failure
to comply with any state law pertaining to the operation of a motor vehicle, or
for failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or other city
ordinance or traffic regulation. In the event of the suspension or revocation
of a license, no refund shall be made to the person to whom the license was
issued for any portion of the license fee previously paid. (1996 Code § 29-26)
CHAPTER 7
PROCESSING WILD GAME
SECTION:
4-7-1: State License Required
4-7-2: Entry Powers Of Enforcement Officials
4-7-3: Suspension Of Operation
4-7-4: Severability
4-7-5: Penalty
4-7-1: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any individual, corporation, partnership or any other entity within the
corporate limits of the city that engages in the business of cutting up or
preparing in any way for human consumption wild game carcasses including, but
not limited to, deer, whether for sale or for the benefit of a third party,
shall have a type I license as defined in 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 654/
5.1. (Ord. 1379, 9-27-2002)
4-7-2: ENTRY POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
No person shall deny access to any authorized personnel of the city upon
presentation of proper identification at any reasonable time to any part of the
establishment for the purpose of making a determination whether said license is
in place and whether there is compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 1379, 9-27-
2002)
4-7-3: SUSPENSION OF OPERATION:
The code enforcement officer of the city is hereby authorized to suspend the
operation of any entity found to be processing wild game carcasses without the
license herein required. (Ord. 1379, 9-27-2002)
4-7-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, clause, provision or portion of this chapter shall
be held to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, or the applicability thereof to any person, substance or product
is held invalid, such holding shall not affect any other section, subsection,
clause, provision or portion of this chapter or any other person, substance or
product covered by the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1379, 9-27-2002)
4-7-5: PENALTY:
The processing of each wild game carcass without the license referenced herein
shall constitute a separate offense which shall subject the violator to a fine
not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each separate
violation. (Ord. 1379, 9-27-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 8
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
4-8-1: Video Gaming Permitted
4-8-2: License Required; Application
4-8-3: Fees
4-8-4: Privilege
4-8-5: Regulations
4-8-6: Video Gaming Cafes
4-8-1: VIDEO GAMING PERMITTED:
   A.   Video gaming, as defined by the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., is permitted in the City subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Video gaming is not permitted within the City except pursuant to the
issuance of a Class J liquor license to the holder of a Class A, C, or D
license as set forth in section
4-2-11 of this title, and pursuant to the issuance of a valid gaming terminal
license as set forth in section
4-8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1739, 2-12-2019)
4-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
A Class J licensed establishment must apply for and obtain a valid gaming
terminal license from the Mayor of the City for each video gaming terminal to
be operated on a licensed premises. Information about the location and
operation of the video gaming terminals must be submitted with the application,
along with a copy of the licensee's State video gaming license issued by the
Illinois Gaming Board, and payment of the gaming terminal fee required by this
chapter. (Ord. 1739, 2-12-2019)
4-8-3: FEES:
An annual fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) is hereby imposed on each video
gaming terminal operated within the City. The annual fee must be paid at the
time of submission of an application for a video gaming license, and annually
thereafter. (Ord. 1739, 2-12-2019)
4-8-4: PRIVILEGE:
A video gaming license is purely a personal privilege and does not constitute
property nor is it transferable. (Ord. 1739, 2-12-2019)
4-8-5: REGULATIONS:
The following regulations apply to all licensed establishments operating a
video gaming terminal on the licensed premises:
   A.   A valid State video gaming license must be clearly displayed at all
times.
   B.   A valid City video gaming license must be clearly displayed at all
times.
   C.   No more than the maximum number of video gaming terminals allowed by
the Illinois Video Gaming Act 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., may be located on the
licensed premises.
   D.   All video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to
persons over twenty one (21) years of age. The entrance to the restricted area
must be within the view of at least one employee of the establishment who is
over twenty one (21) years of age. Any licensed establishment that allows
persons under twenty one (21) years of age to enter the establishment must
isolate video gaming terminals in a separate area inaccessible to minors.
   E.   No licensed establishment may permit any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years to use, play, or operate a video gaming terminal.
   F.   Signage must be posted at the entrance to, and inside of, the
designated gaming area in accordance with the regulations adopted by the
Illinois Gaming Board.
   G.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with all applicable City
ordinances, including the City's liquor control regulations, as well as any
applicable Federal and State laws and regulations.
   H.   The licensed establishment must fully comply with the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, as amended, and all rules, regulations, and restrictions imposed by
the Illinois Gaming Board.
   I.   Licensed establishments must immediately notify the Mayor in the event
the Illinois Gaming Board revokes or suspends the licensed establishment's
video gaming license. The revocation, loss, or suspension of a valid State
video gaming license shall automatically result in the revocation, loss, or
suspension of the City video gaming license for all video gaming terminals
without any refund of any fee.
   J.   An owner, manager, or employee over the age of twenty one (21) must be
present during all hours of operation when video gaming terminals are available
for use by the public. (Ord. 1739, 2-12-2019; amd. Ord. 1768, 7-13-2021; Ord.
1768, 7-13-2021)
4-8-6: VIDEO GAMING CAFES:
Video gaming cafes are not permitted in the City. A "video gaming cafe" is
defined as an establishment whose primary or major focus is video gaming, and
the service of alcohol and food is secondary to the video gaming operation. The
following factors may be considered when determining if a proposed or operating
establishment is a video gaming cafe:
   A.   The layout and design of the establishment;
   B.   The preparation and variety of food and beverages offered;
   C.   The creation and operation of a commercial kitchen on the premises
where gaming is situated or a partnership with an establishment that operates a
commercial kitchen;
   D.   Whether the number of video gaming machines relative to the customer
seating capacity of the establishment is less than ten (10) customer seats to
one machine;
   E.   Whether the square footage of space devoted to video gaming relative to
the amount of space devoted to other activities is less than four (4) square
feet for non-gaming to one square foot for gaming;
   F.   The source of proposed or actual revenue derived from the
establishment;
   G.   Whether the establishment is proposed to be marketed as a gaming
establishment or have a gambling theme;
   H.   The number of employees at the establishment and their proposed
function; and
   I.   Any other factors as deemed relevant by the Mayor. (Ord. 1739, 2-12-
2019)
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: Business Registration Required
4-9-3: Fee; Late Fee
4-9-4: Duration
4-9-5: Registration Not Assignable; Unlawful Use
4-9-6: Application For New And Existing Businesses And Organizations
4-9-7: Registration Renewal
4-9-8: Suspension, Revocation, And Appeal
4-9-9: Penalty
4-9-10: Enforcement Of Other Ordinances
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless otherwise required, the following words shall
have the meaning hereinafter ascribed to them:
                                 Any for-profit business operated by a sole
                                 proprietor, partnership, limited partnership,
                                 corporation, limited liability company, joint
BUSINESS:                        venture, or other organization within the City
                                 limits and the one and one-half mile extra-
                                 jurisdictional area surrounding the City,
                                 except a temporary business.
                                 The City of Jerseyville, Jersey County,
CITY AND WITHIN THE CITY:        Illinois and shall include the one and one-
                                 half mile extra-jurisdictional area
                                 surrounding the City.
                                 Any not-for-profit business or entity, school
                                 or educational institution and related support
                                 organizations, clubs, and recognized groups,
                                 church and related support organizations,
                                 clubs, and recognized groups, and any other
EXEMPT ORGANIZATION:             not-for-profit organization sponsoring, or
                                 Jersey County, conducting, and managing
                                 entertainment festivals, tourist events, or
                                 agricultural fairs or seasonal markets, such
                                 as a farmer's market, within the City limits
                                 and the one and one-half mile extra-
                                 jurisdictional area surrounding the City.
                                 The president, project chairman, manager,
EXEMPT ORGANIZATION'S AUTHORIZED principal, pastor, or other individual
REPRESENTATIVES:                 appointed by a board of directors or trustees
                                 with authority to act for the organization.
                                 Any self-contained motorized vehicle or
                                 enclosed mobile pull-behind type trailer with
                                 a valid license plate and registration
                                 designed to be operated on the roadways and to
                                 provide mobile food and beverage service from
FOOD TRUCK:                      one or more locations, and in which food and/
                                 or non-alcoholic beverages for immediate
                                 consumption are prepared and/or served but
                                 does not include such trucks from which ice
                                 cream and/or similar frozen desserts only are
                                 sold.
                                 Any sole proprietor, partners of a partnership
OWNER OR OWNERS:                 or limited partnership, shareholders of a
                                 corporation, or members of a limited liability
                                 company, joint venture, or other organization.
                                 The period commencing at 12:00 A.M. on May 1
REGISTRATION YEAR:               of each calendar year and ending 11:59 P.M.,
                                 on April 30 of the same calendar year.
                                 A period of three or less business days,
                                 whether they are consecutive or spaced
TEMPORARY:                       throughout the Registration Year when
                                 referring to the location of any Business
                                 within the City. (Ord. 1806, 12-12-2023)
 
4-9-2: BUSINESS REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Any business domiciled in the City, conducting, or desiring to conduct
business from a location within the City shall register said business with the
City.
   B.   Any exempt organization sponsoring, conducting, and managing
entertainment festivals, tourist events, or agricultural or seasonal markets,
such as a farmer's market, in the City shall register with the City prior to
the event for informational purposes only, but is not required to pay a
registration fee.
   C.   Food trucks operating from one or more locations within the City for
more than a temporary period shall register said business with the City. (Ord.
1806, 12-12-2023)
4-9-3: FEE; LATE FEE:
   A.   The annual registration fee is twenty-five dollars ($25.00) and shall
be submitted with the registration application or renewal affidavit. This fee
is non-refundable and is used solely for the administration of this Title 4.
   B.   A late fee of five dollars ($5.00) per month or part of a month shall
be due with any renewal registration application or renewal affidavit filed
after May 31st of each year. (Ord. 1806, 12-12-2023)
4-9-4: DURATION:
Each business shall be registered no later than May 31st of every year.
Registrations are effective for one (1) registration year, as defined herein,
or for the balance of the registration year if the application is filed for a
new business after May 31st of any year.
   A.   The City Clerk shall notify each registered business of registration
expiration each year during the months of March and April. However, it is the
obligation of each business to renew its registration and failure to receive an
expiration notification is not a defense for operating without being
registered.
   B.   The City Clerk shall issue a certificate of registration for each
registered business. This certificate shall be posted in a prominent visible
location in each business. (Ord. 1806, 12-12-2023)
4-9-5: REGISTRATION NOT ASSIGNABLE; UNLAWFUL USE:
No registration granted under the provisions of this Chapter may be assigned or
transferred. Each registration is only valid for the owner or owners filing the
application and for the business location named in the registration. The
purchaser or purchasers of an existing business shall file a new application
for registration no less than seven (7) business days prior to completing the
purchase. (Ord. 1806, 12-12-2023)
4-9-6: APPLICATION FOR NEW AND EXISTING BUSINESSES AND ORGANIZATIONS:
   A.   Each registration application shall be submitted by the business owner
or owners or the exempt organization's authorized representatives to the City
Clerk in writing on a form provided by the City Clerk and include the
registration fee, except as stated in Section
4-9-2 (B) above.
   B.   Each application will contain no less than the following information:
      1.   Business name, address, and telephone number, and type of business
entity.
      2.   Business owner or owner's names, addresses, and telephone numbers.
      3.   Exempt organization's authorized representatives and evidence of
authorization.
      4.   Description of business activity, services performed, and/or goods
to be sold.
      5.   Property owner(s) names, addresses, and telephone numbers, if
different than business owners.
      6.   Additional contact name(s) and telephone number(s) ie. manager or
key employee.
      7.   An after hours (emergency) contact name and telephone number.
      8.   Date business began or anticipates beginning operations in the City.
      9.   Hours of operation.
      10.   The certificate of license number issued under the Illinois
Retailers Occupation Tax Act, Service Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use Tax Act,
if applicable.
      11.   Federal Income Tax Identification Number.
      12.   Type and location of any toxic, flammable, or hazardous materials
stored or used at said location, if the quantity is a reportable amount under
state laws or regulations.
      13.   Name, type, and contact information for any security alarm/company
on premises.
   C.   Every application for a food-related business, including food trucks,
shall provide evidence of the required food preparation or other health
certificates issued by the Jersey County Health Department, or applicable
health department for food trucks.
   D.   Any business required by law to be bonded or insured shall provide
evidence of such bond or insurance.
   E.   Significant changes to the original information submitted which occur
during the registration year shall be reported to the City Clerk as soon as
possible, and the registration will be amended at no additional charge to the
registrant.
4-9-7: REGISTRATION RENEWAL:
Registration renewal may be accomplished by affidavit signed by the owner of a
business or an authorized representative of an exempt organization on a form
provided by the City stating that no change in registration information has
occurred. (Ord. 1806, 12-12-2023)
4-9-8: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, AND APPEAL:
   A.   The City Clerk, upon approval of the mayor, is hereby authorized to
suspend or revoke a Business Registration thereby causing the cessation of a
business, when:
      1.   The business operation constitutes a clear and present danger to the
public safety, health, or general welfare; or
      2.   The registration application information is fraudulent, false,
incomplete, or deceptive; or
      3.   The business fails to pay all applicable fees or taxes imposed by
the City or State of Illinois.
   B.   If a registration is suspended or revoked the City Clerk will issue a
written notice to the business owner to be delivered by a police officer of the
City, or served by certified mail return receipt requested, at the business
address supplied by the owner. The notice will include the reason or reasons as
outlined above in (A) (1) through (3) that caused the action. A suspension or
revocation shall remain in place unless rescinded by the City Clerk, upon
approval of the mayor, or reinstated by a successful appeal to the City
Council.
   C.   An appeal of the suspension must be requested by the registrant and
filed with the City Clerk within three (3) business days after receipt of the
notice and will be heard at:
      1.   The next regularly scheduled City Council meeting, provided that the
notice of appeal has been filed three (3) business days prior to the next
scheduled meeting, or
      2.   The meeting immediately following the notice of appeal should the
time constraints listed in (1) above not be met, or
      3.   A special meeting of the City Council, if requested by the business
owner, provided that the special meeting must comply with City ordinances, meet
public notice requirements, and be no less than five (5) business days' notice.
   D.   The City Attorney, or a designated attorney representative, shall
present the complaint and represent the City. The registrant is allowed counsel
and has the right to submit evidence and cross-examine witnesses. A two-thirds
corporate majority vote of the City Council is required to rescind or continue
the suspension or revocation.
   E.   The City will keep an electronic record of the hearing. If either party
requires a transcript that party shall pay the cost of the transcription.
   F.   Revocation of a business registration shall not preclude prosecution or
imposition of other penalties for the violation of any other ordinance of the
City. (Ord. 1806, 12-12-2023)
4-9-9: PENALTY:
Any business, except an exempt organization, operating in violation of this
Chapter, once notified in writing by the City Clerk of the violation may be
fined two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per day for each offense. Each
calendar day of operation of a business without the requisite certificate shall
be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 1806, 12-12-2023)
4-9-10: ENFORCEMENT OF OTHER ORDINANCES:
Any business issued a registration certificate must comply with all other City
ordinances. By issuing a registration certificate the City has not waived the
full enforcement of any other ordinances nor is the possession of a valid
registration a defense to any other violation. (Ord. 1806, 12-12-2023)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-2: Authority To Complain
5-1-3: Abatement Proceedings Generally
5-1-4: Emergency Abatement
5-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Within the city, it is hereby declared a nuisance for any person:
   A.   Common Law Nuisances; Nuisances In Fact: To cause any of those acts or
omissions that are declared to be nuisances by the laws of the state, and such
as are known as nuisances to the common law, not hereinafter enumerated in this
section or this code, or to cause those acts or omissions which are nuisances
in fact.
   B.   Nuisance Defined By Code: To cause any of those acts or omissions that
are declared by this code to be nuisances.
   C.   Continuing Violations Of Code: To continue to do any act, acts,
omission or omissions which constitute a violation of this code or other
ordinance of the city.
   D.   Licenses; Failure To Obtain: To fail or refuse to obtain and possess
any license required by this code or other ordinance of the city.
   E.   Zoning Violations: To violate the zoning ordinance of the city.
   F.   Violation Of Technical Codes: To cause, allow, permit or suffer the
violation of the building code of the city, the electrical code of the city,
the fire prevention code of the city, the plumbing code of the city, or any
other technical code adopted by any provision of this code or any other
ordinance of the city.
   G.   Dangerous, Unsightly Structures Or Streets: To maintain any building,
structure, street, sign or billboard in an unsafe, hazardous or unsightly
condition.
   H.   Offensive Businesses: To carry on, use or occupy any distillery or
slaughtering establishment, or establishment for steaming or rendering lard,
tallow, offal, dead animals or other substance of like nature, without the
permission of the city council.
   I.   Odors: To engage in any activity which causes or produces unreasonably
offensive odors; except, that this subsection shall not apply to those
activities carried on in the public interest.
   J.   Unhealthy Conditions:
      1.   To maintain or permit any substance on the premises which is, or may
become, putrid or create an unhealthy condition.
      2.   To create, allow, maintain or permit any condition which may
endanger the public health.
   K.   Noise 1 : To cause or allow unreasonably loud noises tending to cause
alarm or to disturb the public peace and quiet.
   L.   Attractive Nuisances: For the owner or occupier of any premises to
create, maintain or suffer an attractive nuisance to remain on the premises.
(1996 Code § 19-1)
   M.   Encroachments: To cause, allow, permit or suffer any encroachment upon
public ways or upon public grounds, except as provided in section
8-1-6 of this code. (1996 Code § 19-1; amd. 2010 Code)
   N.   Unlawful Assemblies 2 : To organize, lead or participate in any
unlawful assembly of persons. (1996 Code § 19-1)
   O.   Abandoned Containers 3 : To abandon or discard in any place accessible
to children any refrigerator, icebox or ice chest of a capacity of one and one-
half (11/2) cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door which may be
opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch, or being the owner,
lessee or manager of such place, to knowingly permit such abandoned or
discarded refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain there in such condition.
(1996 Code § 19-1; amd. 2010 Code)
   P.   Littering 4 : To allow, suffer, permit or cause to be dropped, thrown,
discarded, placed or deposited on any public way or public place, or on any
private property when public property may be affected thereby, any paper,
glass, plastic, wood, metal, solid or liquid vegetable or animal compound,
rubbish, garbage, waste, effluent, junk, debris, litter, or solid, or any
combination thereof, except in a refuse receptacle or landfill site of the
city.
   Q.   Graffiti: To place graffiti upon the property of another, whether
publicly or privately owned, real or personal.
      1.   Definition: For the purpose of this subsection, "graffiti" is
defined as any sign, symbol, marking, drawing, name, initial, word, diagram,
sketch, picture, or letter, or combinations thereof, placed without the express
written permission of the owner, upon the real or personal property of said
owner.
      2.   Placement With Owner's Permission: It shall be unlawful for an owner
and/or occupant of property which is in the public view to place or give
permission to place any graffiti on said property if such graffiti incites
violence or the furtherance or proliferation of gang activity by reference to
gang or criminal activity, depicts or expresses obscenity by referring to
sexual activity, or contains defamatory material about a public or private
person or group.
      3.   Removal Required: Upon notification by the city, the owner of
property upon which graffiti has been illegally placed shall remove the
graffiti within five (5) working days of the date of notification. Failure to
remove graffiti within the specified time shall cause summary abatement of the
nuisance, and cost therefor shall be assessed to the owner.
      4.   Compensation And Restitution: The owner of the property shall be
entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct cost incurred in the
repair and restoration of his property to its previous condition from any
person convicted of the offense listed in this subsection; provided, that the
property owner submits receipts or other evidence of the costs for the removal
or repair of the graffiti; and provided further, that the court enters an order
of restitution.
      5.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian:
         a.   The parent or legal guardian of a juvenile who resides with such
parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages for the wilful or
malicious acts of such juvenile which cause injury to a person or property. The
juvenile shall be deemed to have committed the offense with the knowledge,
consent, acquiescence and permission of the parent or legal guardian in
violation of this subsection.
         b.   The parent or legal guardian shall be liable for the fine and
requirement of restitution or reparation imposed by a court upon a juvenile
defendant for violation of this subsection.
         c.   The sanctions of this subsection Q5 shall apply after said parent
or legal guardian shall have received a written notice thereof, either by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service
with a certificate of personal service returned, from the police department of
the city prior to the institution of any judicial sanction or penalty.
         d.   In any action brought pursuant to the provisions of this
subsection, the parent or legal guardian shall be made a party defendant. (1996
Code § 19-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-5A-4 of this code.
2 2. See also subsection 6-5A-6A of this code.
3 3. See also section
  6-6-3 of this code.
4 4. See also section
  5-2-3 of this title.
5-1-2: AUTHORITY TO COMPLAIN:
The following shall have standing to complain of any condition declared to be a
nuisance by this chapter:
   A.   The city.
   B.   Any person whose interests, rights or property are particularly
adversely affected by the nuisance. (1996 Code § 19-2)
5-1-3: ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS GENERALLY:
Any person having standing to complain of a nuisance under this chapter, or the
head of any city department having cognizance of a nuisance, shall report the
fact of the nuisance and the details surrounding it to the city attorney, who
shall, if it is justified under the circumstances, institute abatement
proceedings in accordance with the laws of the state. (1996 Code § 19-3)
5-1-4: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT:
When a nuisance, as defined by this chapter, exists and the nuisance causes or
threatens imminent danger or great peril to persons or property, the nuisance
may be immediately abated by the city, by using the following procedure:
   A.   The mayor shall find that the nuisance exists, and that the nuisance
causes or threatens imminent danger or great peril to persons or property, and
that an emergency exists.
   B.   A copy of the mayor's findings made under subsection A of this section
shall be placed on file in the office of the city clerk.
   C.   The city clerk shall immediately issue a notice directed to the owner
or occupant of the premises on which the nuisance exists, directing the owner
or occupant to immediately abate the nuisance.
   D.   The notice issued pursuant to subsection C of this section shall be
served upon the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the nuisance
exists. The notice may be served by any officer or employee of the city. In the
event that the owner or occupant of the premises is not to be found, the notice
may be posted on the premises on which the nuisance exists.
   E.   Upon being served with a notice to abate a nuisance as provided in
subsection D of this section, the owner or occupant of the premises on which
the nuisance is located shall immediately abate the nuisance. The failure of
the owner or occupant to immediately abate the nuisance upon service or posting
of the notice shall be a violation of this code, and shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   F.   In the event that the owner or occupant of a premises upon which a
nuisance is ordered to be abated under this section does not immediately abate
the nuisance, the appropriate city department shall immediately abate the
nuisance. The cost of the abatement by the city shall be assessed against the
property on which the nuisance existed, and shall be collected as other special
assessments. (1996 Code § 19-4)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Businesses; Containers And Use Required
5-2-2: Deposits At Collection Sites
5-2-3: Littering Prohibited
5-2-4: Private Collectors
5-2-1: BUSINESSES; CONTAINERS AND USE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or pile any wooden, pasteboard or
paper boxes, paper, trash, refuse or garbage adjacent to any place of business
along the alleys and streets without first providing a metal container, wooden
bin or wire pen, with a top covering thereon to cover the wooden, pasteboard or
paper boxes, paper, trash, refuse or garbage. (1996 Code § 12-1)
5-2-2: DEPOSITS AT COLLECTION SITES:
   A.   City Residents Only: Only residents of the city are entitled to dump or
deposit trash in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the
city regarding dumping at city collection sites.
   B.   Permit Required: Any city resident who desires to dump or deposit trash
at any collection facility of the city must purchase and display a city dumping
permit. It shall be unlawful to dump or deposit trash at any collection
facility without displaying a permit. (Ord. 1432, 3-30-2004)
   C.   Proof Of Residency And Cost Of Annual Permit: Permits are available for
purchase at city hall by residents of the city of Jerseyville only, and proof
of residency must be supplied before purchase can be made. Annual permits are
valid from May 1 of each year to April 30 of the following year. The cost of
said permit will be a yearly fee which will be reduced to half price if
purchased on or after November 1. Replacement fee will be charged for lost
permits, with proof of the original purchase of a permit. A fee schedule will
be established prior to the beginning of each fiscal year by the city council
which will be on file in the city clerk's office. (Ord. 1549, 3-23-2010)
5-2-3: LITTERING PROHIBITED 1 :
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or leave any ashes,
dirt, garbage, filth or other rubbish in or upon any street, alley or sidewalk,
or to knowingly suffer or permit such refuse to be thrown, placed or left in or
upon any street, alley or sidewalk.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw any paper or litter of any
kind from a vehicle into any street, alley or grounds in the city or to cause
any vehicle to be so loaded that in the hauling thereof any part of the load
shall be scattered or dropped in any street, alley or place of the city 2 .
(1996 Code § 12-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1-1P of this title.
2 1. See also section
  7-6-11 of this code.
5-2-4: PRIVATE COLLECTORS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any
vehicle, including wagons, motor vehicles and vehicles propelled by human
power, for the hauling or carrying of any trash or any wooden, pasteboard or
paper boxes, paper, refuse or garbage for hire, unless a license for the
vehicle is first obtained as provided in this section. (1996 Code § 12-26)
   B.   Application For License: Application for a license required by this
section shall be made to the city clerk and shall state the name of the person
that will own and use the vehicle sought to be licensed, and the nature of the
material to be hauled and carried. (1996 Code § 12-27)
   C.   License Fee: The annual fee for a license required by this section
shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for each such commercial vehicle licensed. The
fees shall be paid to the city clerk, who shall remit them to the city
treasurer forthwith; however, no license fee shall be required for any vehicle
used to haul trash, refuse or garbage by any private individual not making any
charge for the use of the vehicle and not holding out the vehicle for hire.
(1996 Code § 12-28)
   D.   Issuance Of License; Records: The city clerk shall issue the license
required by this section and shall give the mayor a list of the licenses so
issued. (1996 Code § 12-29)
   E.   Term Of License: A license issued pursuant to this section shall be
valid for a period of one year next following its issuance. (1996 Code § 12-30)
   F.   Vehicles:
      1.   Covering Vehicles Required: All vehicles subject to this section
shall be used only when the vehicle has a top or covering on the body of the
vehicle adequate to prevent any trash or any wooden, pasteboard or paper boxes,
paper, refuse or garbage from falling from the vehicle into the street or other
public property of the city 1 . (1996 Code § 12-17)
      2.   Inspections: It shall be the duty of the mayor to make or cause to
be made such inspections of the vehicles subject to this section as may be
necessary to assure compliance with this section. (1996 Code § 12-18)
   G.   Revocation Of License: Any license issued pursuant to this section may
be revoked by the mayor for any violation of this section, which revocation
shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed for the violation. (1996 Code
§ 12-31)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-6-11 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
JUNK
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Nuisance Declared; Exemptions
5-3-3: Abatement Proceedings
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of seven
(7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, altered,
damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power. "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include a motor
vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its
own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
JUNK, TRASH AND REFUSE: Any and all waste matter, whether reusable or not,
which is offensive to the public health and safety or to the aesthetics of the
neighborhood, and is specifically intended to include, but not be limited to,
worn out, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles, trucks, tractors, machinery of
any kind, or any parts thereof, old iceboxes, refrigerators and stoves.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Shall mean, but shall not be limited to, the following:
motorcycles, passenger automobiles, trucks of all types, semitrailers and all
other vehicles which are propelled other than by muscular power; however, this
chapter shall not apply to any automobile dealer and the motor vehicles in and
upon such dealer's business premises.
(1996 Code §§ 12-43, 12-44; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1588, 5-15-2012)
5-3-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A. Declaration Of Nuisance:
      1.   The storing of junk, trash or refuse on private property within the
city, or any motor vehicle which is not currently licensed by the state or
operable as defined by section
5-3-1 of this chapter and which remains upon any street, alley, lot or premises
within the city, shall be deemed a nuisance. (Ord. 1588, 5-15-2012)
      2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection A, if the trash or
refuse is raw garbage not in covered containers, including, but not limited to,
food materials, animal carcasses or parts thereof, or other raw waste, or if
the junk, trash or refuse collects rainwater resulting in standing water not in
covered containers, which remains on private property or on a street, alley,
lot, or premises within the city for a period in excess of seventy two (72)
hours, then it shall be deemed a nuisance. (Ord. 1502, 7-3-2007)
   B.   Display Of License: All licenses shall be openly displayed in a proper
manner as prescribed by the statutes of the state.
   C.   Exemptions From Provisions:
      1.   Nothing in this section shall apply to any motor vehicle that is
kept within a building. (1996 Code § 12-44)
      2.   This section shall not apply to persons engaged in the business of
automobile repair. Such persons shall be allowed to have inoperable motor
vehicles and parts to motor vehicles that would otherwise be deemed junk on the
premises for a period of ninety (90) days. Any inoperable motor vehicle or part
thereof shall be deemed junk if remaining on the premises longer than ninety
(90) days. (Ord. 1222, 12-16-1997)
      3.   This section shall not apply to operable historic vehicles over
twenty five (25) years of age.
      4.   This section shall not apply to a motor vehicle on the premises of a
place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles. (2010
Code)
5-3-3: ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Notice Requirements; Failure To Abate: The owner of a motor vehicle
declared by this chapter to be a nuisance, or the owner of the premises or the
occupant of the property who allows any storage on his property which is a
nuisance under this chapter, upon being notified in writing by any city officer
to abate or remove the item within a time to be specified in the written
notice, not less than four (4) days nor more than seven (7) days from the date
thereof, and who shall neglect or refuse to abate the nuisance, shall be guilty
of an offense, and shall be guilty of a separate offense for each day that the
nuisance shall be permitted or suffered to remain after the expiration of the
time fixed by the written notice for the abatement of the nuisance. (1996 Code
§ 12-45; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Abatement By City: The city may remove or abate a nuisance under this
chapter at the expense of the owner of the unlicensed motor vehicle or the
owner or occupant of the property when, upon being notified in writing of the
nuisance, the owner or occupant does not abate or remove the nuisance. (1996
Code § 12-46)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Burning Of Certain Substances Prohibited
5-4-3: Burning Leaves
5-4-4: Other Permitted Fires
5-4-5: Penalties
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation and the enforcement
of this chapter:
AGRICULTURAL WASTES: Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated on
a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and crop residues,
but excluding landscape wastes.
DOMICILE WASTE: Any refuse generated on single-family domiciliary property as a
result of domiciliary activities. The term excludes landscape waste, garbage
and trade waste.
GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food or food products.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and agricultural
waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products of
the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under section 9(b) of the
state air environmental protection act 1 .
REFUSE: Any discarded matter; or any matter which is to be reduced in volume,
or otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties, in order to facilitate
its discard, removal or disposal.
TRADE WASTE: Any refuse resulting from the operation of any trade, business,
industry, commercial venture, utility or service activity, and any government
or institutional activity, whether or not for profit. The term includes
landscape waste but excludes agricultural waste. (1996 Code § 11-3; amd. 2010
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/9(b).
5-4-2: BURNING OF CERTAIN SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED:
As defined in this chapter, "agricultural wastes", "garbage", "domicile
wastes", "refuse", "landscape wastes" and "trade wastes" are prohibited from
any open burning activity within the city. (1996 Code § 11-3)
5-4-3: BURNING LEAVES:
   A.   Hours And Conditions: The open burning of leaves is permitted within
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and dusk; however, such burning shall not
be injurious to human, plant or animal life, to health, or to property, nor
unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property of others.
   B.   Burning On Public Ways And Property Prohibited: It shall be unlawful
for any person to burn or cause to burn leaves on city streets or on city
property adjacent to city streets. (1996 Code § 11-3)
5-4-4: OTHER PERMITTED FIRES:
The following fires are also permitted:
   A.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when reasonably
necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official.
   B.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational and cooking
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in areas where such burning is consistent
with other laws; provided, that no garbage shall be burned in such cases.
   C.   The burning of waste gases; provided, that in the case of refineries,
all such flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
   D.   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares, and the like. (1996 Code § 11-3)
5-4-5: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be in accordance
with section
1-4-1 of this code. (1996 Code § 11-3)
CHAPTER 5
WEEDS AND VEGETATION
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definition
5-5-2: Enforcement Officer
5-5-3: Height Restriction; Nuisance Declared
5-5-4: Dry Vegetation
5-5-5: Duty To Cut Weeds; Authority Of City
5-5-6: Abatement Proceedings
5-5-7: Costs Of Abatement; Lien Provisions
5-5-8: Chipping Service
5-5-9: Penalty
5-5-1: DEFINITION:
"Weeds", as used in this chapter, shall include burdock, ragweed (giant),
ragweed (common), thistle, cockleburs, jimson, blue vervain, common milkweed,
wild carrot, poison ivy, wild mustard, rough pigweed, lamb's quarters, wild
lettuce, curled dock, smartweeds (all varieties), poison hemlock, and wild
hemp. (1996 Code § 28-16)
5-5-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The code enforcement officer shall have the power and shall see that the
provisions of this chapter are properly enforced. (1996 Code § 28-19; amd. 2010
Code)
5-5-3: HEIGHT RESTRICTION; NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   All grasses, vegetation, and rank and growing weeds that are over eight
inches (8") in height are hereby declared a nuisance and shall be disposed of
as provided in this chapter. Common landscape vegetation and flowers and garden
vegetables and produce plants on the property, and in vegetable and flower
gardens of less than one-half (1/2) acre are exempt from this Height
Restriction.
   B.   In lieu of grass or allowing natural vegetation or weeds to grow on
property, the property owner may do all necessary actions to plant, fertilize,
and harvest (bale) alfalfa or sweet clover on property. The height requirements
in Section 5-5-3-A above shall be inapplicable to the property planted pursuant
to this paragraph, however the alfalfa or sweet clover shall be cut and baled
at least three (3) times per year and constitute more than fifty (50%) of the
vegetation on said lot. This paragraph shall not apply to single lots
containing less than one (1) acre, unless combined with one or more additional
adjacent and contiguous vacant lots totaling one (1) acre or more.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to spray or otherwise apply weed or
vegetation killer on any lot within the city limits or within the surrounding
one and one-half (1 1/2) mile limit governed by the city, in lieu of mowing
said lot. This prohibition shall not prevent spraying or application practices
used during normal lawn maintenance or for the purpose of partial or whole lawn
reseeding, as long as reseeding is completed within fourteen (14) days of the
date of spraying.
   D.   The first violation of Section 5-5-3-C shall result in a two hundred
fifty dollar ($250.00) fine, and all subsequent violations by the same person
shall result in a five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine. Fines are applicable to
both the landowner and the person applying the weed or vegetation killer, if
different." (1996 Code § 28-17; amd. Ord. 1777, 3-8-2022)
5-5-4: DRY VEGETATION:
All dry grass, weeds or other dry, dangerous, combustible material remaining
deposited or lying upon any property or premises within the city are hereby
declared a nuisance and a menace to public health and safety and shall be
disposed of as provided in this chapter. (1996 Code § 28-18)
5-5-5: DUTY TO CUT WEEDS; AUTHORITY OF CITY:
Every owner of real estate within the city shall cut weeds and other vegetative
growth, not including garden produce, grain or hay in process of drying, on his
property at all such times as may be necessary so that such weeds or other
vegetative growth shall not exceed eight inches (8") in height; and if real
estate abuts any public streets, roads or ways, the owner shall be responsible
for maintaining the area from the edge of the pavement or curb to his property
line, commonly known as the parkway, in compliance with this chapter; and if
said owner neglects or refuses to cut weeds or other vegetative growth so that
they exceed eight inches (8") in height, the city may cut them or authorize
some person to cut them on behalf of the city. However, no duty will be imposed
on parkways deemed unsafe by the city of Jerseyville. (Ord. 1589, 5-15-2012)
5-5-6: ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Abatement Required After Notice: Weeds and other vegetative growth, not
including garden produce, grain or hay in process of drying, over eight inches
(8") in height, or other combustible materials, such as are a public nuisance
under this chapter, shall be cut and removed by the owner, tenant, agent or
person having control of the premises within five (5) days after being served
by notice in writing by the code enforcement officer or the chief of police.
   B.   Service Of Notice: Service of the notice pursuant to subsection A of
this section may be by personal service, by first class certified mail to the
last known post office address of the owner, or by posting notice on the
property. Only one Service of Notice pursuant to this paragraph B per property
will be issued or posted per calendar year. All subsequent violations will be
addressed as described in paragraph 5-5-6-C.2. Abatement by City.
   C.   Failure To Abate:
      1.   Penalty: In conformity with state law, upon failure of the owner,
tenant, agent or person in charge of any premises within the city to cut,
destroy and remove weeds and other like growth which are nuisances within the
terms of this chapter, within the time designated by the notice to abate the
nuisance served pursuant to this chapter, and who shall neglect and refuse to
do so, shall be punished as prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this code and shall be subject to a like penalty for each day that the
nuisance shall be permitted or suffered to remain after the expiration of the
time fixed by the written notice for the abatement of the nuisance.
      2.   Abatement By City: In the event the owner, tenant, agent or person
in charge of a premises upon which a nuisance subject to this chapter exists
cannot be found, or fails to correct said nuisance, the code enforcement
officer or his assistant, on behalf of the city, may enter upon the premises
and proceed to cut, destroy and remove any weeds and similar growth at the
expense of the owner of the premises. This subsection C2 shall be construed as
full and complete power and authority for the city so to act. The code
enforcement officer shall report to the mayor and the city council from time to
time his actions in this respect and file a full and detailed statement of
premises so dealt with by him, the cost thereof, together with the name of the
owner, if the same can be ascertained.(1996 Code §§ 28-21 and 28-22; amd. 2010
Code; Ord. 1586, 5-1-2012; Ord. 1777, 3-8-2022)
5-5-7: COSTS OF ABATEMENT; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Charges Established: Charges for the abatement of the nuisance
described in this chapter shall be as follows:
      1.   The minimum charge for administrative cost shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 1347, 8-7-2001)
      2.   If city employees provide any labor, such labor shall be charged at
the rate of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per hour, per employee. This hourly
rate will increase one dollar ($1.00) per hour each year thereafter, beginning
on April 1, 2001. (Ord. 1347, 8-7-2001; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   All costs for abating the nuisance, including, but not limited to,
all labor, expenses of abatement including the rental of any equipment or
disposal and other costs incurred by the city including reasonable attorney
fees. Abatement includes the cost of removing debris or litter, which may
include cutting the weeds or other vegetation.
      4.   The cost of any independent contractor hired by the city.
      5.   The costs of preparing the notice of violation and lien, recording
the lien, releasing the lien and determining the ownership of land.
   B.   Invoice; Nonpayment A Lien: Upon completion of the abatement of the
nuisance, the city shall prepare and deliver an invoice for all charges
attributable to abatement and related activity. In the event that said invoice
is not paid by the close of business thirty (30) days following the date of the
invoice, the city attorney shall prepare and file a lien against the property
where said abatement occurred.
   C.   Costs A Lien; Recording And Form: All of the above costs shall be a
lien against the property and a charge against the owner or occupants. The lien
shall be recorded with the county recorder of deeds as soon as practical after
the nuisance is abated and the invoice for such charges remain unpaid. The form
of the lien shall conform with the requirements of law. (Ord. 1338, 5-15-2001)
   D.   Enforcement Of Lien: Upon payment of the lien in full, including all
costs, expenses, attorney fees, and recording fees, and an additional release
recording fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), the lien shall be released by the city
or person in whose name the lien has been filed; and the release shall be filed
of record in the same manner as filing notice of the said lien. (1996 Code §
28-24; amd. 2010 Code)
5-5-8: CHIPPING SERVICE 1 :
The city may provide a chipping service for the citizens of the city in order
to improve the appearance of the city by providing for the safe and
environmental removal of trees and brush and prevent said materials from being
placed in landfills. The city is authorized to charge the fee set out in
section
8-1-9 of this code for said service. (1996 Code § 28-26; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1-9 of this code.
5-5-9: PENALTY:
In addition to being guilty of a nuisance subject to abatement as provided in
this chapter, any person who may permit, suffer or allow weeds or any
combustible material prohibited by this chapter to remain upon premises
occupied, owned or controlled by him or under his supervision or care to become
a menace to public health and safety, or create a nuisance, shall be punished
as prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1996 Code § 28-25)
CHAPTER 6
OAK GROVE CEMETERY; NEW CEMETERIES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Oak Grove Cemetery Established; Description
5-6-2: Plat Adopted
5-6-3: Supervision Of Cemetery
5-6-4: Sexton
5-6-5: Buildings And Fixtures
5-6-6: Lot Sales
5-6-7: Use Of Lots And Blocks
5-6-8: Deed Required For Burials
5-6-9: Graves And Grave Sites
5-6-10: Rules And Regulations For Care, Ornamentation And Use Of Lots
5-6-11: Grave And Lot Fees
5-6-12: Records Kept
5-6-13: Prohibited Acts
5-6-14: New Cemeteries
5-6-1: OAK GROVE CEMETERY ESTABLISHED; DESCRIPTION:
All of the following described real estate being situated in the county of
Jersey and state of Illinois and containing thirty (30) acres, more or less,
together with such additions as may be hereinafter made thereto for cemetery
purposes, shall be called and known by the name of "Oak Grove Cemetery". Said
premises are hereby declared to be the public burial grounds of the city and
are to be kept and controlled by the city council for cemetery purposes and
uses. (1996 Code § 7-16; amd. 2010 Code)
Commencing 12 rods east of the Southwest corner of the East Half (E1/2) of the
Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of Section 21 in Township 8 North, Range 11 West of
the Third Principal Meridian; thence east on half-section line through said
section a distance of 40 rods; thence north 40 rods; thence west 40 rods;
thence south 40 rods, to the place of beginning; also the North Half (N1/2) of
the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/4) of said Section
21, in Township 8 North, Range 11 West of the Third Principal Meridian.
(1996 Code § 7-16)
5-6-2: PLAT ADOPTED:
The plat hereinbefore made, subdividing the cemetery grounds into blocks,
squares, lots and avenues designated and numbered, is hereby declared to be the
lawful plat of Oak Grove Cemetery; and the same shall not be changed except by
order of the city council. (1996 Code § 7-17)
5-6-3: SUPERVISION OF CEMETERY:
   A.   The premises of Oak Grove Cemetery shall be under the control and
supervision of the commissioner of public property of the city and the city
council. (1996 Code § 7-19)
   B.   The commissioner of public property and the sexton shall have the
control, superintendency and charge of Oak Grove Cemetery and its appurtenances
and shall supervise and direct the ornamenting, adorning, embellishing, laying
out and improving the grounds of said cemetery and avenues, walks and squares
therein, and for that purpose, may employ such labor as may be necessary;
provided, that the amount of money annually expended shall not exceed the
amount annually appropriated for cemetery purposes by the city council; and
provided further, that the city council shall not allow any claims for money to
be drawn out of the cemetery fund until the claim shall have been first
approved by the commissioner of public property. (1996 Code § 7-20)
5-6-4: SEXTON:
   A.   Appointment And Compensation: The commissioner of public property, with
the advice and consent of the city council, shall appoint a sexton over Oak
Grove Cemetery, who shall receive such compensation for his services as may be
determined by the city council. (1996 Code § 7-24; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Duties: The sexton shall:
      1.   Have charge of Oak Grove Cemetery and shall keep and preserve the
grounds, buildings and fences in good order and repair, and the monuments,
tombstones, shrubbery, and everything erected or placed within the cemetery for
ornament and otherwise, free from injury or defacement and the walks and
avenues clean, in good condition, and free from obstructions. (1996 Code § 7-
25)
      2.   Enforce the ordinances and rules and regulations adopted by the city
in relation to the cemetery and report all violations thereof to the proper
officers for prosecution. (1996 Code § 7-25; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Be subject to the orders and directions of the commissioner of
public property in his labors in and about the cemetery and shall obey his
orders and directions.
      4.   Keep a book in which he shall enter the name and sex of each body
interred in such cemetery, with the date of the death of the deceased, and the
number of the lot or square upon which the same shall be interred, which book
shall be subject to the examination of all and any persons interested therein
at all proper times. The book shall be furnished by the city and shall be
delivered by the sexton to his successor in office. (1996 Code § 7-25)
5-6-5: BUILDINGS AND FIXTURES:
The commissioner of public property may, by and with the consent of the city
council, cause to be erected or provided all such buildings, vaults or other
fixtures as may be necessary and proper for the convenient use of Oak Grove
Cemetery, and for that purpose, may employ such laborers or workers and
purchase or contract for such materials as he may deem necessary. (1996 Code §
7-21)
5-6-6: LOT SALES:
   A.   Authority To Sell; Procedure: The sales of lots for burial purposes
exclusively may be made by the sexton on behalf of the city; and upon payment
made to the city clerk of the purchase price money for the lot or lots
purchased, the mayor and the city clerk shall execute a deed for such lot or
lots to the purchaser. All lots so sold and conveyed shall be used for burial
purposes only, subject to the provisions of this chapter. (1996 Code § 7-18;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Appraisal Of Lots: The commissioner of public property shall appraise
the squares or lots which may remain unsold in Oak Grove Cemetery and shall
from time to time, when deemed expedient, reappraise such squares or lots as
may remain unsold. He shall cause a list of squares and lots appraised by him,
with the amount at which the lot or square is appraised set opposite thereto,
to be filed with the city clerk, and approved by the city council, and no
square or lot shall be sold for less than the appraisal affixed thereon by the
city council. (1996 Code § 7-22; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Selling Of Unplatted Ground: The unplatted ground of Oak Grove
Cemetery, or any portion thereof, shall not be sold or traded without the
unanimous consent of the city council. (1996 Code § 7-31)
5-6-7: USE OF LOTS AND BLOCKS:
The lots or blocks of Oak Grove Cemetery shall be reserved for the use and
possession of such families and persons, and such only as have heretofore or
shall hereinafter become the purchasers of the same to be used by them as
burial places for the dead, and for no other purpose or use whatever, all of
which shall be under the control of the city council. All owners of said lots,
or other persons, shall comply with the rules and regulations of the city
council in the interment or removal of bodies, and in the care, ornamentation
and use of the grounds thereof, and no deed or contract made with the city
shall prevent the exercise of such powers on the part of the city. (1996 Code §
7-28; amd. 2010 Code)
5-6-8: DEED REQUIRED FOR BURIALS:
No one will be permitted to have a burial in any lot in Oak Grove Cemetery
unless said person has a deed for same or has procured written permission from
the city clerk for said burial, approved by the commissioner of public
property. (1996 Code § 7-30)
5-6-9: GRAVES AND GRAVE SITES:
   A.   Location Restrictions; Approval Required: It shall be unlawful to dig
any grave in any walk, lane or avenue of the cemetery, and in like manner, to
dig any grave or bury any body in the cemetery without the consent of the
commissioner of public property or the sexton.
   B.   Grave Specifications: All graves in Oak Grove Cemetery shall be dug at
least five feet (5') deep.
   C.   Fencing, Vaults And Ornaments: All fencing, vaults or ornaments placed
by individuals on their lots shall be so built and placed as not to obstruct
any walk, lane or avenue, or access thereto. (1996 Code § 7-26)
5-6-10: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CARE, ORNAMENTATION AND USE OF LOTS:
The following rules are established in order that the maintenance of the
cemetery can be done with the least interference:
   A.   No tin cans, glassware or markers, other than stone or marble, shall be
placed on the lots; except, that hanging baskets will be allowed if they meet
the following requirements:
      1.   All rods must be at least one-half inch (1/2"), with reinforcement
wing in the ground.
      2.   Rod must be on the back side of the stone, with basket hanging above
the stone.
      3.   Anything not meeting these specifications will be removed and can be
recovered at the office.
   B.   No more than two (2) dwarf bushes on one lot (in the second addition to
the cemetery, the dwarf bushes must go in the middle of the lot).
   C.   No wire, nails or metal of any kind are to be placed in the cemetery
except for metal plaques properly erected by veterans' organizations.
   D.   No holes are to be dug in graves for flowerpots or containers of cut or
artificial flowers.
   E.   All Christmas decorations placed on the ground after October 15 will be
picked up March 1. The sexton has the sole discretion to remove any floral
display that becomes unattractive or uncared for. All decorations placed in
cemetery after March 1 must be placed on stones or in vases or urns until two
(2) weeks before Memorial Day. All decorations on the ground after Memorial Day
will be removed June 10. No more decorations may be placed on the ground until
October 15.
   F.   Urns not maintained will be removed.
   G.   Flags will be allowed to be displayed the entire year if properly
maintained. "Proper maintaining" is defined as placing the flag as close to the
stone as possible and keeping the flag presentable, and not being faded, ripped
or torn. During Memorial Day, personal flags are not to be placed in the
veteran holders so as to not interfere with the placement and removal of the
flags owned by that veteran organization.
   H.   In addition to the rules and restrictions set forth in subsections A,
B, C, D, E, F and G of this section, the following shall also apply to sections
D and E and Darr Addition:
      1.   All government markers must be placed at ground level.
      2.   All stones erected must have a minimum base size of one foot (1') in
width and three feet (3') in length and will not exceed a greater height than
sixty inches (60").
      3.   Slanted stones and beveled stones are allowed in these additions,
however, they must comply with the above dimensions. (Ord. 1255, 4-6-1999)
5-6-11: GRAVE AND LOT FEES:
   A.   Fee Schedule On File: The city clerk shall have on file the most recent
ordinance setting forth the current rates and fees for grave openings, lots and
services at Oak Grove Cemetery. Perpetual care shall be included for all
graves; however, perpetual care on graves purchased after July 27, 1976, shall
be as shown in the most recent ordinance on file with the city clerk.
   B.   Prepayments: Persons who have prepaid their funeral expenses prior to
January 2, 1992, would be exempt from this fee schedule as shown in said recent
ordinance. Funeral home directors will provide the city with a list of all
persons who have made prepaid funeral arrangements. The fee schedule that was
in effect on the date the prepaid funeral arrangements were made shall apply.
   C.   Public Aid Recipients: Fees for Illinois public aid recipients will be
one-half (1/2) of the established rate.
   D.   After Three O'Clock P.M. Fees: After three o'clock (3:00) P.M. fees
apply to all funeral cortege arriving at the cemetery after three o'clock (3:
00) P.M. (Ord. 1312, 3-21-2000)
   E.   Nonresident Fees: The fees for residents and nonresidents of the city
of Jerseyville shall be the same. (Ord. 1551, 5-18-2010)
   F.   Assessment For No Perpetual Care: An annual assessment may be collected
on each lot in Oak Grove Cemetery if perpetual care has not been paid on said
lot. (1996 Code § 7-29)
5-6-12: RECORDS KEPT:
The city clerk shall keep a record of the Oak Grove Cemetery grounds, in
numerical order, of the blocks or squares in each division, with separate
columns ruled therein for the entry of the amount of appraisal, the name of the
purchaser, the amount sold for, and the date of sale. An additional column
shall also be ruled for the entry of any reappraisal which may be made. When
any block, square, lot or part thereof shall be sold, the clerk shall make an
entry of the name of the purchaser, the amount for which sold, and the date of
sale opposite the number of the block, square or lot on the record. (1996 Code
§ 7-23)
5-6-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   A.   To break down, deface, hack or in any manner injure the fence or
enclosures of Oak Grove Cemetery; or
   B.   To tear down, deface or in any manner injure any lot, enclosure,
tombstone, material erected at any grave, or any shrub, bush, flower or other
thing or ornament within the cemetery; or
   C.   To cut, hack or deface any trees or shrubs, or in any manner injure the
same, or any other thing belonging to or standing on or being within the
cemetery; or
   D.   To in any manner injure the grass, herbage, streets, walks, ornaments
or other thing in or belonging to the cemetery, whether private property or
belonging to the city; or
   E.   To leave open any gate or the enclosure of the same, or any private
burial place therein, the same being done wilfully, negligently or carelessly;
or
   F.   To engage in any sports or amusements; or
   G.   To turn any beast or animal therein; or
   H.   To conduct himself in a boisterous, rude or indecent manner; or
   I.   To use profane or indecent language or in any manner disturb any burial
party or individual being there for a lawful purpose; or
   J.   To shoot any gun, pistol or firearms within the limits of the cemetery.
(1996 Code § 7-27)
5-6-14: NEW CEMETERIES:
No cemetery or burying grounds shall be established within the city without
authority therefor from the city council. (1996 Code §§ 7-1, 7-29)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Established; Composition
6-1-2: Appointment Of Subordinate Personnel
6-1-3: Police Pension Fund
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby established a police department for the city, which shall
consist of the chief of police and such number of subordinate police officers
and other personnel as the city council may from time to time authorize. (1996
Code § 24-1)
6-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF SUBORDINATE PERSONNEL:
The subordinate personnel of the police department shall be appointed by the
board of fire and police commissioners 1 . (1996 Code § 24-2)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 3 of this code; see section
  1-6-3 of this code for appointment of police chief.
6-1-3: POLICE PENSION FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: There is hereby established a police pension fund,
effective December 29, 1953, as provided by law.
   B.   Board Of Trustees Of Fund: The board of trustees of the police pension
fund established in subsection A of this section shall consist of five (5)
members, two (2) of whom shall be appointed by the mayor, two (2) of whom shall
be elected by the members of the police department and one of whom shall be
elected by the beneficiaries of the pension fund. The elections shall be held
biennially on the third Monday in April, and the term of each member shall be
for two (2) years. The pension board shall meet at least quarterly as provided
by law and shall hold such additional meetings as may be called by the
president of the pension board.
   C.   Contributions To Fund: There shall be deposited in the police pension
fund created in this section, the sums required by law, which shall include
9.91 percent per month deducted from the salary of each member of the police
force and the proceeds of any annual taxes and/or fees collected by the city as
provided in 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (1996 Code § 24-3;
amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE A. EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Agency Established
6-2A-1: AGENCY ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 3305/10, the mayor, with the advice
and consent of the city council, is hereby authorized to appoint a liaison
officer to facilitate the cooperation and protection of Jerseyville with Jersey
County emergency services and disaster agency. (1996 Code ch. 8, art. II)
ARTICLE B. CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-2B-1: Definitions
6-2B-2: Proclamation Of Civil Emergency
6-2B-3: Imposition Of Curfew
6-2B-4: Emergency Orders
6-2B-5: Duration Of Proclamation; Renewal
6-2B-6: Unavailability Of Mayor; Order Of Command
6-2B-7: Effect Of Other Laws
6-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute the threat, by three (3) or more persons acting together
without authority of law; or
   B.   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the city,
resulting in the death or injury of persons or the destruction of property to
such an extent that extraordinary measures must be taken to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing
or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises
within the city, except officials of any governmental unit and persons
officially designated to duty with reference to a civil emergency. (1996 Code §
8-41)
6-2B-2: PROCLAMATION OF CIVIL EMERGENCY:
   A.   Authority Of Mayor: Whenever a civil emergency exists, the mayor shall
proclaim the existence by means of a written declaration setting forth the
facts which constitute the emergency. (1996 Code § 8-42)
   B.   Notice Of Proclamation: Upon issuing the proclamation of a civil
emergency pursuant to this section, the chief of police shall notify the news
media situated within the city and shall cause three (3) copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the city: the city hall, the police station and the
post office. (1996 Code § 8-43)
6-2B-3: IMPOSITION OF CURFEW:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor, he may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city, or to the
city as a whole, as he deems advisable, which curfew shall be applicable during
such hours of the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the
public safety and welfare. (1996 Code § 8-44)
6-2B-4: EMERGENCY ORDERS:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency as provided in this article, the
mayor may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all
of the following orders:
   A.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof, wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.
   B.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   C.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   D.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or giving
away of any firearm or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   E.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property. (1996 Code § 8-45)
6-2B-5: DURATION OF PROCLAMATION; RENEWAL:
The proclamation of a civil emergency authorized by this article shall be
effective for a period of forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a
proclamation of the mayor indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists.
The mayor shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency
at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time the civil
emergency exists. (1996 Code § 8-46)
6-2B-6: UNAVAILABILITY OF MAYOR; ORDER OF COMMAND:
In any civil emergency or disaster subject to this article, if the mayor is not
available or is incapacitated, the first person available from the following
list, in order of descent, is to assume all the powers delegated to the mayor
by this article:
   A.   The commissioner of accounts and finances.
   B.   The commissioner of public property.
   C.   The commissioner of streets and public improvements.
   D.   The commissioner of public health and safety.
   E.   The chief of police. (1996 Code § 8-47)
   F.   The coordinator of ESDA. (1996 Code § 8-47; amd. 2010 Code)
6-2B-7: EFFECT OF OTHER LAWS:
Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this code giving powers to the police and fire departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city. (1996 Code § 8-48)
CHAPTER 3
FIREFIGHTERS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Training Program
6-3-2: Calls Outside City
6-3-3: Pension Fund And Board Of Trustees
6-3-1: TRAINING PROGRAM:
   A.   The commissioner of public affairs and the chief of the fire department
shall prepare a list of items that represent a working knowledge of the
equipment and procedures of the Jerseyville volunteer fire department. This
list is intended to be a basis for training that shall provide for a minimum
level of ability. Practice, training and experience beyond the minimum level of
ability is encouraged. (1996 Code § 11-5; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1547, 2-23-2010)
   B.   All firefighters shall complete the list by examination within four (4)
months of their becoming firefighters. The examining officer shall be the
chief, assistant chief, or a designated training officer. (1996 Code § 11-5;
amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Further training or recertification by the list may be required of a
firefighter at the discretion of the chief of the fire department.
   D.   Additions or corrections to this program may be enacted by the chief
upon discussion with, and vote of the firefighters. Any additions or
corrections will then be subject to the four (4) month period for completion by
each firefighter. (1996 Code § 11-5)
6-3-2: CALLS OUTSIDE CITY:
   A.   Calls Authorized: The fire department will answer fire alarms outside
the city limits when called upon by residents located within the boundaries of
the JEM Fire Protection Association, as long as an agreement for fire
protection services exists between the city and the association.
   B.   JEM Fire Call Boundaries: JEM fire call boundaries shall be as follows:
(1996 Code § 11-4; amd. 2010 Code)
      1.   Jerseyville townships: Township 8 North, Range 11 West and Township
9 North, Range 11 West of the Third Principal Meridian, all Sections except
portions of those Sections within the city limits of Jerseyville, Illinois, and
      2.   English township: Township 8 North, Range 12 West of the Third
Principal Meridian, Sections 1, 2, 11, 12, 13, 14, 23, 24, 25, 26, 35 and 36,
and
      3.   Mississippi township: Township 7 North, Range 11 West of the Third
Principal Meridian, Sections 1 through 16 and Sections 17 and 18 North of
McClusky Road. (2010 Code)
6-3-3: PENSION FUND AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Fund Established: There is hereby created and established a
firefighters' pension fund in and for the city, in accordance with 40 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-101 et seq. (article 4 of the Illinois pension code).
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the terms "firefighters"
and "board" or "board of trustees" are defined, respectively, as full time
firefighters or full time firefighters entitled to participate in the benefits
of the pension fund as provided by article 4 of the Illinois pension code and
the board of trustees of the pension fund.
   C.   Rights, Powers, Duties And Functions Of Board And Beneficiaries: The
rights, powers, duties and functions of the board of trustees and the members
thereof, as such, and the rights and benefits of the various beneficiaries of
the pension fund shall be and are hereby declared to be in accordance with the
law and particularly article 4 of the Illinois pension code and all amendments
thereto.
   D.   Appointment Or Election Of Board; Powers And Duties; Compensation: The
board shall be appointed and elected as therein provided and shall exercise
such powers and perform such duties that shall be required of them by law. All
monies and securities belonging to said fund shall be held by the city
treasurer subject to the order of the board of trustees of the pension fund. An
annual list of beneficiaries and report of funds shall be made as required by
law. Members of the board of trustees of the pension fund shall serve without
compensation. (Ord. 1481, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Purpose
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Animal Control Officer
6-4-4: Running At Large
6-4-5: Abuse Of Animals
6-4-6: Noisy Animals
6-4-7: Dangerous, Vicious Animals
6-4-8: Diseased, Injured Animals
6-4-9: Disposal Of Dead Animals
6-4-10: Offensive Animals
6-4-11: Location Of Animal Houses And Premises
6-4-12: Condition Of Animal Houses And Premises
6-4-13: Excrement; Filth; Carcasses
6-4-14: Nuisance Abatement Proceedings
6-4-15: Animal Bites
6-4-16: Adoption Program
6-4-17: Kennels And Pet Shops
6-4-18: Penalty
6-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to regulate and control animals within the city. It is
also created to protect the individual property owner's rights to control that
which may be offensive and detrimental to his person or property. (1996 Code §
5-16)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ANIMAL: Shall refer to livestock such as cattle, swine, horses, mules, donkeys,
sheep, dogs, cats, goats, rabbits or other animals and fowl such as chickens,
turkeys, geese, pigeons, doves, ducks or other fowl.
CAT: Unless otherwise expressly designated, shall be construed to include both
males and females.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: A lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay,
mountain lion, lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, bear, hyena, wolf or coyote, or any
poisonous or life threatening reptile.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than three (3)
dogs, or more than three (3) cats, or more than three (3) other household
domestic animals, excluding puppies, kittens, or other babies under six (6)
months of age, are kept or on which more than three (3) such animals are
boarded for compensation or kept for sale.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal that has, without provocation, attacked a human
being or other animal, or an animal that, by its behavior or physical
condition, constitutes an immediate and serious physical or health threat to
human beings or animals, or any animal which has previously attacked or bitten
any human being or other animal on two (2) or more reported occasions. (1996
Code §§ 5-17, 5-90; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4-3: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Enforcement Duties: The animal control officer shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter, and shall perform his duties under the supervision
of the chief of police and the mayor. He is hereby authorized to make all
necessary arrests in carrying out the provisions of this chapter. The duties of
the animal control officer shall be in addition to the enforcement by the
police department. (1996 Code § 5-56; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Monthly Reports: The animal control officer shall submit monthly
reports to the chief of police setting forth the number of animals impounded,
indicating the breed, sex and color, and the number of animals disposed of or
redeemed, the number of arrests made and/or warning tickets issued and the name
and address of any owner or keeper of animals involved. (1996 Code § 5-56)
6-4-4: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   No domestic animal shall be allowed or permitted to run at large within
the city, and any animal running at large in the city may be impounded.
   B.   No domestic animal shall be placed by the owner or any other person in
charge or control thereof, or be permitted by such person, upon any sidewalk,
curbstone, grass plot or planting space of any street, park or other public
property unless retained by a leash, which shall be no longer than six feet
(6'). (1996 Code § 5-18; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4-5: ABUSE OF ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be cruel in any way to any
animal in the city. Any person who inhumanely beats, overloads, underfeeds or
abandons any animal shall be guilty of an offense.
   B.   Any person who shall keep or cause any animal to be impounded in any
pound or other place of shelter or confinement shall supply such animal during
confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food and water and
adequate and clean bedding. (1996 Code § 5-19)
6-4-6: NOISY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs
the peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night. (1996 Code § 5-20)
6-4-7: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Unless Permitted For Parades And Exhibitions: It shall be
unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal of any kind to run at
large within the city; exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae
naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a permit
therefor from the chief of police.
   B.   Authority To Kill: Members of the police department, and any other
person in the city, are authorized to kill any dangerous animal when necessary
for the protection of any person or property. (1996 Code § 5-21)
6-4-8: DISEASED, INJURED ANIMALS:
   A.   Diseased Animals Prohibited: No diseased or sickly animal, nor any
animal that has been exposed to any disease that is contagious among such
animals, shall be brought into the city or allowed to run at large, or be
exposed in any public place whereby the health of man or beast may be affected;
nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the
owner thereof, except under the supervision of the animal control officer or
the commissioner of public affairs.
   B.   Authority To Kill; Interference Prohibited:
      1.   Any animal being in any street or public place within the city and,
in the estimation of any police officer, the animal control officer, or the
commissioner of public affairs, appearing to be injured or diseased past
recovery for any useful purpose, and when the owner cannot be located, after a
reasonable attempt has been made to do so, or when such animal is not being
attended and properly cared for by the owner or some proper person to have
charge thereof for the owner, or not having been removed to some private
premises, may be deprived of life by the officer or as he may direct, and shall
thereafter, unless at once removed by the owner, be treated as any other dead
animal found on a street or place.
      2.   No person, other than a police officer, the animal control officer,
or the commissioner of public affairs, or a person authorized by contract or
otherwise, shall in any way interfere with such dead, sick or injured animal in
any street or place, unless to terminate its life as authorized by this
section; except, that the owner or person having control of such animal may
terminate the life thereof in the presence and by the consent of a police
officer, the animal control officer, or the commissioner of public affairs.
(1996 Code § 5-22; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4-9: DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Disposal: No person shall leave or throw into any place,
street or public water, or offensively expose or bury anywhere within the city,
the body, or any part thereof, of any dead or fatally sick or injured animal;
nor shall any person keep any dead animal, or any offensive meat, bird, fowl or
fish, in a place where it may be dangerous to the life or detrimental to the
health of any person. (1996 Code § 5-23)
   B.   Burial Or Removal From City: Any owner or anyone in charge or
possession of any animal which may have died within the city shall properly
bury the carcass thereof, or remove the carcass not less than one-fourth (1/4)
mile beyond the city limits within nine (9) hours after a request to do so by
the chief of police, any member of the police department, or the animal control
officer. (1996 Code § 5-23; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4-10: OFFENSIVE ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city or within one-fourth (1/4)
mile of the city to own, keep, maintain, or suffer or permit to be kept and
maintained or operated any pen, shed, stable, house, building, structure, yard,
kennel, lot or enclosure of any kind or character, wherein any animal is kept
or harbored, which animal may be offensive or nauseating to any person residing
in the vicinity thereof or to persons passing along any street or alley near
thereto. (1996 Code § 5-33)
6-4-11: LOCATION OF ANIMAL HOUSES AND PREMISES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any chicken
coop, dovecote, rabbit hutch or other yard establishment for the housing of
small animals or fowl, except dogs, closer than thirty feet (30') to the
nearest portion of any building occupied by or in any way used by human beings,
other than that dwelling occupied by the owner or keeper of the animals or
fowl, or closer than ten feet (10') to the property line of the lot on which
such animals or fowl are kept or permitted to be kept, except where the animals
or fowl are kept for sale within a bona fide produce market or commission house
and, while so kept, are confined in small coops, boxes or cages, or where the
animals or fowl are kept for purposes of research in a laboratory.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain, within seventy
five feet (75') of the nearest portion of any dwelling or other building
occupied by or in any way used by human beings, other than the dwelling
occupied by the person keeping the animals or fowl, more than fifteen (15)
chickens or other domestic fowl four (4) months old, or more than ten (10)
rabbits or other small animals over the age of four (4) months, or more than
twenty five (25) rabbits or other animals under the age of four (4) months,
except where the fowl, rabbits or other small animals are kept for sale within
a bona fide produce market or commission house and, while so kept, are confined
in small coops, boxes or cages, or where the animals or fowl are kept for
purposes of research in a laboratory.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain, within two
hundred feet (200') of the nearest portion of any dwelling or other building
occupied by or in any way used by human beings, other than that dwelling
occupied by the person, more than twenty five (25) chickens or other domestic
fowl four (4) months of age and/or one hundred (100) chicks or other domestic
fowl under four (4) months old, or more than fifty (50) rabbits or other small
animals under the age of four (4) months, except where the fowl, rabbits or
other small animals are kept for sale within a bona fide produce market or
commission house and, while so kept, are confined in small coops, boxes or
cages, or where said animals or fowl are kept for purposes of research in a
laboratory. (1996 Code § 5-34)
6-4-12: CONDITION OF ANIMAL HOUSES AND PREMISES:
   A.   Cleanliness And Sanitation:
      1.   Every coop, dovecote, rabbit hutch or other yard establishment for
keeping animals shall be kept so that no offensive, disagreeable or noxious
smell or odor shall arise therefrom to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience
of any inhabitant of the neighborhood.
      2.   All structures, pens, coops or yards in which animals or fowl are
kept or permitted to be kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times, devoid of all rodents and vermin, and free from
objectionable odors. The interior walls, ceilings, floors, partitions and
appurtenances of all such structures shall be whitewashed or painted annually.
The enclosed area of all such structures shall be constructed in such a way as
to be dry at all times on the inside.
      3.   Any person keeping, feeding or housing any animal or fowl shall keep
the crates, coops, houses, sheds, yards, premises and enclosures wherein the
animal or fowl may be in a good sanitary condition, disinfected from time to
time and free from objectionable odors and smells, and shall remove from day to
day the droppings or excretions so that they may not become objectionable,
offensive or a nuisance to those living in the neighborhood. (1996 Code § 5-36)
      4.   For the purpose of killing flies and other insects, all structures,
pens or coops where fowl are kept or permitted to be kept shall be sprayed with
an insecticide as frequently as necessary to prevent attraction of flies and
other insects.
   B.   Yards For Fowl: All yards or runways where fowl are kept or permitted
to be kept shall be spaded and then limed once every three (3) months.
   C.   Manure:
      1.   Storage Receptacle Required: Every coop, dovecote, rabbit hutch,
pen, shed, stable, house, building, structure, yard, kennel, lot or enclosure
of any kind or character, wherein any animal is kept or harbored, shall be
provided with a watertight and flytight receptacle for manure, of such
dimensions as to contain all accumulations of manure, which receptacle shall be
emptied sufficiently often and in such a manner as to prevent its becoming a
nuisance. The receptacle shall be kept securely covered at all times, except
when open during the deposit or removal of manure or refuse.
      2.   Accumulation Prohibited: No manure shall be allowed to accumulate
except in such a receptacle.
      3.   Disposal Requirements: All manure, when removed from the receptacle,
shall be buried with a covering of not less than six inches (6") of earth or,
if used as fertilizer, immediately thoroughly spaded into the ground, or shall
be removed from the property. (1996 Code § 5-24)
   D.   Commercial Establishments: No person shall keep, feed, house or
maintain within the city for commercial purposes any animal in such a manner or
under such conditions as to become offensive to persons living in the vicinity
or neighborhood where they may be so located or so as to become a nuisance.
(1996 Code § 5-35)
   E.   Inspections: The animal control officer or the commissioner of public
affairs may, at any reasonable time, inspect any premises and issue such orders
as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section. (1996 Code §
5-36; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4-13: EXCREMENT; FILTH; CARCASSES:
   A.   No person shall cast, dump, accumulate, place or deposit any animal
excrement, manure, offal or filth, or any carrion, within one-fourth (1/4) mile
of the limits of the city.
   B.   No person shall cast, throw or deposit, or cause to be cast, thrown or
deposited, any dead animal into any street, alley, sidewalk or other public
place within the city. (1996 Code § 5-24)
6-4-14: NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Notice To Abate: It shall be the duty of the mayor, the city council,
the health officer or the chief of police to serve notice, in writing, upon the
owner, occupant, agent or person in possession or control of any lot, building
or premises in or upon which any nuisance in violation of this chapter may be
found, or who may be the owner or the cause of any such nuisance, requiring him
to abate said nuisance in such a manner as the mayor, the city council, the
health officer or the chief of police shall prescribe, within a reasonable
time. It shall not be necessary in any case for the mayor, the city council,
the health officer or the chief of police to specify in the notice the manner
in which any nuisance shall be abated, unless he shall deem it advisable to do
so. The notice may also be given or served by any other officer who is so
directed.
   B.   Failure To Abate; Penalty: If the person notified to abate a nuisance
pursuant to subsection A of this section shall neglect or refuse to comply with
the requirements of the notice by abating the nuisance within the time
specified, said person shall be subject to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Abatement By City: It shall be the duty of the mayor, the members of
the city council, the health officer or the chief of police to proceed at once
to give notice to cause the nuisance to be abated; however, whenever the owner,
occupant, agent or person in possession or control of any premises in or upon
which any nuisance may be found is unknown or cannot be found, the mayor, or
any member of the city council, the health officer or the chief of police shall
proceed to abate the nuisance without notice. In either case, the expense of
the abatement shall be collected from the person who may have created,
continued or suffered the nuisance to exist in addition to any penalty or fine
allowed by section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Summary Abatement: Whenever any nuisance shall be found on any premises
within the city, the mayor, any member of the city council, the health officer
or the chief of police is authorized, in his discretion, to cause the nuisance
to be summarily abated in such a manner as he may direct. (1996 Code § 5-25)
6-4-15: ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Police Notified: Whenever any animal bites any person, the owner of the
animal or anyone having knowledge of the bite shall immediately notify the
chief of police.
   B.   Confinement; Destruction If Rabies Determined:
      1.   The chief of police shall cause the animal to be confined under
supervision of a licensed veterinarian for a period of at least ten (10) days.
If, at the end of the ten (10) day period, the veterinarian determines the
animal has symptoms of rabies, said animal shall be destroyed and the head sent
to the state department of health for examination for rabies.
      2.   All state statutes must be complied with concerning confinement as
set forth in Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   C.   Costs Responsibility Of Owner: Any expense incurred in the handling of
any animal under this section shall be borne by the owner or keeper of the
animal. (1996 Code § 5-60)
6-4-16: ADOPTION PROGRAM:
   A.   Implementation Of Program: The animal control officer shall implement
an adoption program to the general public.
   B.   Adoption Fees: Fees shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) for a male or
female dog and ten dollars ($10.00) for a male or female cat. (1996 Code § 5-
26)
   C.   Conditions Of Adoption:
      1.   In accordance with state law, the prospective buyer will agree to
have the animal spayed or neutered and microchipped by a licensed veterinarian
within fourteen (14) days from the adoption date, unless the animal is too
young to be spayed or neutered at that time. If too young at that time, the
animal will be spayed or neutered at no later than six (6) months of age.
Forfeiture of all incurred fees and reclaiming of the adopted animal will occur
if this agreement is not fulfilled. (1996 Code § 5-26; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   During this fourteen (14) day time period, a rabies vaccination will
also be required. (1996 Code § 5-26)
6-4-17: KENNELS AND PET SHOPS:
   A.   Kennels To Comply: Any person operating a "kennel", as defined in
section
6-4-2 of this chapter, shall comply with the regulations of this section. (1996
Code §§ 5-66, 5-95; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner or keeper of a kennel or pet shop
shall keep all animals under restraint at all times and shall not permit such
animals to be at large or off the premises of the property of the owner or
keeper unless the animals are under complete control of a responsible person.
(1996 Code § 5-65; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Licensing Requirements:
      1.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to operate a kennel or pet
shop anywhere in the city without first securing a license as hereinafter
provided, and complying with all requirements of the Illinois animal control
act 1 . (1996 Code §§ 5-67, 5-96)
      2.   Application For License: Application for a license required by this
section shall be made upon the form provided by the city clerk. (1996 Code §§
5-68, 5-97)
      3.   License Fees: The license fees to be paid shall be one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for a dog kennel or pet shop and fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
cat kennel or pet shop. (1996 Code §§ 5-69, 5-98; amd. 2010 Code)
      4.   Revocation Of License; Appeal:
         a.   Any license may be revoked by the commissioner of public affairs
at any time during the life of such license for any conviction of a violation
by licensee of the ordinance provisions relating to the license, the subject
matter of the license, or to the premises occupied. Such revocation may be in
addition to any fine imposed. Prior to revocation, the commissioner of public
affairs shall give notice to the licensee of his opportunity to be afforded a
hearing.
         b.   The licensee must request a hearing by the commissioner of public
affairs within ten (10) days of the receipt of said notice, or the revocation
will be final. The hearing shall be conducted by the commissioner of public
affairs and two (2) citizens of the city appointed by him to assist in
conducting the hearing, and all neighbors and interested parties and the
licensee will be afforded an opportunity to present any evidence at the
hearing. Upon completion of the hearing, the commissioner of public affairs
will enter his decision within ten (10) days. (1996 Code §§ 5-70, 5-99; amd.
2010 Code)
   D.   Consent Of Neighboring Property Owners:
      1.   The consent of all adjoining or neighboring residents and public
proprietors whose property is located within three hundred feet (300') of the
property of the proposed licensee is required as a prerequisite of the conduct
of any kennel or pet shop. Said consents must be obtained by securing the
necessary signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition should be
filed with the city clerk when signed.
      2.   Consent, once given and filed, shall not be withdrawn, and such
petition need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not. (1996 Code §§ 5-71, 5-100)
      3.   Each consent, when filed, shall be accompanied by the affidavit of
the person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and that the petition contains all of the signatures of the
adjoining or neighboring residents and public proprietors within three hundred
feet (300') of the property of the proposed licensee. (1996 Code §§ 5-71, 5-
100; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Enclosed Premises: Any premises, area, or piece or parcel of land
licensed and used as a kennel or pet shop shall be enclosed with either a
solid, nontransparent wall or fence of linkseave steel wire or combination
thereof with a minimum height of six feet (6') from the ground level, excepting
for entrances and exits. The fence or wall shall not contain any poster or
advertising of any kind excepting one sign of the licensee not exceeding one
hundred (100) square feet in size. (1996 Code §§ 5-72, 5-101)
   F.   Health And Sanitary Conditions:
      1.   Every place used as a kennel or pet shop shall be kept in a clean
and sanitary condition, and no refuse or waste material shall be allowed to
remain thereon for more than twenty four (24) hours. (1996 Code §§ 5-73, 5-102)
      2.   All animals shall be humanely treated, proper ventilation ensured,
and adequate nutrition provided, and any animal having any disease shall be
properly isolated and treated. (1996 Code §§ 5-73, 5-102; amd. 2010 Code)
   G.   Inspections: The animal control officer of the city shall periodically
inspect each place of business regulated by this section to determine whether
the provisions of this code regulating the health and sanitation applicable
thereto are being complied with. (1996 Code §§ 5-74, 5-103)
   H.   Existing Businesses: All persons or other business entities holding a
valid license for the operation or maintaining of a kennel or a pet shop by the
state of Illinois on the effective date hereof shall be exempt from the
provisions hereof as long as said license remains in full force and effect.
(1996 Code §§ 5-75, 5-104)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
6-4-18: PENALTY:
Any person, partnership, corporation, or other entity violating any provisions
of this chapter shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues. (1996 Code § 5-105; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
6-4A-1: License And Rabies Inoculation Required
6-4A-2: Registration Requirements
6-4A-3: License Fee
6-4A-4: License Tags
6-4A-5: Licenses Not Transferable Or Refundable
6-4A-6: Records Kept
6-4A-7: Ownership Determined
6-4A-8: Running At Large; Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-4A-9: Noisy Dogs
6-4A-10: Excrement Control
6-4A-11: Female Dogs During Estrus
6-4A-12: Dangerous, Vicious Dogs
6-4A-13: Dogs That Bite
6-4A-14: Rabies Control
6-4A-1: LICENSE AND RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Annual License: It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to
own, keep, harbor or have custody of any dog over six (6) months of age without
first obtaining a license from the city as herein provided. Licenses are to be
purchased annually. (1996 Code § 5-48; amd. Ord. 1383, 10-15-2002)
   B.   Rabies Inoculation 1 : Every owner or keeper of a dog within the
corporate limits shall cause such dog to be inoculated by a licensed
veterinarian with a prophylactic serum to prevent rabies either annually or
triennially depending upon the type of serum used. (1996 Code § 5-49)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-4A-14A of this article.
6-4A-2: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
All dogs kept in the city shall be registered with the city clerk as to sex,
breed, and color of the dog and name and address of the owner of said dog. A
certificate of inoculation against rabies, issued by a licensed veterinarian,
and the rabies tag shall be submitted to the clerk for inspection at the time
registration is made. (Ord. 1383, 10-15-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4A-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee shall be six dollars ($6.00) per dog. (Ord. 1383, 10-15-
2002)
6-4A-4: LICENSE TAGS:
   A.   Issuance: Upon payment of the license fee and evidence of a certificate
of inoculation and rabies tag as required in sections
6-4A-2 and
6-4A-3 of this article, the clerk shall issue to the owner a metallic tag
bearing the legend "Dog License", as well as the name of the city, license
number and the year issued. (1996 Code § 5-51)
   B.   Tag Attached To Collar; Unlawful Removal: Every owner of a dog within
the city shall keep such license tag securely attached to a collar or harness
fastened around the neck or body of such dog at all times when the dog is off
the premises of the owner. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the
owner, his agents or a member of the police department, to remove a license tag
from a dog. (1996 Code § 5-52; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Replacement Tags: Any owner of a licensed dog whose license tag has
been lost may obtain a replacement tag upon the payment of one dollar ($1.00)
to the clerk. (1996 Code § 5-51)
6-4A-5: LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE OR REFUNDABLE:
Dog licenses shall not be transferred from one dog to another, and no refunds
shall be made on any dog license fee because of the death of the dog, or
because of the owner leaving the city before expiration of the license period.
(1996 Code § 5-53)
6-4A-6: RECORDS KEPT:
The clerk shall forward to the chief of police a copy of all dog licenses
issued. The chief of police shall keep, or cause to be kept, a careful record
of each registration and license issued for identifying lost, stolen or
impounded dogs. (1996 Code § 5-54)
6-4A-7: OWNERSHIP DETERMINED:
Any person that shall harbor or suffer or permit any dog to be and remain at or
about his property (owned or rented) in the city shall be held to be the owner
or keeper of the same and subject to the penalties contained in this code.
(1996 Code § 5-55; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4A-8: RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Running At Large Prohibited: No person shall cause or permit any dog
owned or kept by him to be at large at any place within the city, other than on
the property of such owner or keeper, unless such dog is securely fastened and
restrained by a leash. Any dog, not upon the owner's or keeper's property,
which is not fastened and restrained by a leash shall be deemed as being at
large. No leash or other similar restraint shall be longer than six feet (6')
in length. All dogs found being at large, whether or not currently licensed by
the city, shall promptly be impounded. (1996 Code § 5-57; amd. Ord. 1437, 5-25-
2004)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment To Owners Of Licensed Dogs: When any licensed dog
shall be impounded, the chief of police, his delegated agent, or the animal
control officer shall cause notice to be given in person, by mail or by
telephone to the registered owner of any licensed dog impounded. Said notice
shall be given not later than two (2) days after picking up the dog. (1996 Code
§ 5-59; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Fees For Impounding And Boarding:
      1.   Licensed Dogs:
         a.   Any dog for which the license fee for the current year has been
paid, which may, during such year, be impounded or taken up for being at large,
may be redeemed by the owner or keeper of such dog upon the payment of a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for impounding charges and five dollars ($5.00)
for each day the dog is impounded, and any other costs of keeping such dog
while impounded, which sums shall be accounted for by the animal control
officer and paid into the city treasury.
         b.   If such dog is without a collar or harness with the current
license attached, it shall be deemed a licensed dog, for the purpose of this
subsection, if satisfactory proof is given to a police officer or the animal
control officer by the owner or keeper that such dog is licensed and that a
collar or harness with a current license tag attached thereto was placed on
such dog but had subsequently been lost or taken from such animal.
      2.   Unlicensed Dogs: Any unlicensed dog which shall have been impounded
may be redeemed by the owner or keeper of such dog upon the payment of a fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for impounding charges and five dollars ($5.00)
for each day the dog is impounded and any other costs of keeping such dog while
impounded, plus the annual license fee and registration as required by this
code, which sums shall be accounted for by the animal control officer and paid
into the city treasury. In addition, the owner or keeper shall present proof of
current rabies inoculation or pay for rabies inoculation and pay for
microchipping if not already done. (Ord. 1383, 10-15-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Subsequent Violations: The impoundment fee will increase with
additional violations for the same dog within a twelve (12) month period. The
first offense impoundment fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00); the second
offense impoundment fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00); the third offense
impoundment fee shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 1383, 10-15-2002)
6-4A-9: NOISY DOGS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, or keep a dog
which, by loud and frequent or habitual barking, howling or yelping, shall
cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any neighborhood. Any person who
shall allow or permit any dog habitually to be or remain lodged or kept or fed
within his house, store, yard, enclosure or other place, shall be considered as
harboring the dog within the meaning of this section.
   B.   Any dog which shall cause serious annoyance or disturbance to any
neighborhood by loud and frequent or habitual barking, howling or yelping is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and any such dog, when causing such serious
annoyance or disturbance to any neighborhood and while in or upon any street or
other public place in the city, or upon the private premises of any person
other than the owner or keeper of such dog, may then and there lawfully be shot
or otherwise killed by any police officer of the city. (1996 Code § 5-62)
6-4A-10: EXCREMENT CONTROL:
   A.   Accumulation Prohibited On Owner's Property: It is hereby prohibited
and it shall be deemed a public nuisance for any person to cause or permit any
dog owned or kept by him to use property under such person's ownership or
control in a manner to allow defecation to accumulate so as to constitute a
nuisance in fact. (1996 Code § 5-63)
   B.   Removal Required On Property Of Another:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog to be
on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person,
unless such person has in his immediate possession a device for the removal of
excrement and a depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle
located upon property owned or possessed by such person.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person in control of, causing or
permitting any dog to be on any property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person, to fail to remove excrement left by such dog to a
proper receptacle located on property owned or possessed by such person. (Ord.
1437, 5-25-2004)
6-4A-11: FEMALE DOGS DURING ESTRUS:
Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secured in a cage
which must be three feet (3') above the ground. (1996 Code § 5-64)
6-4A-12: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    DANGEROUS DOG: Any individual dog when unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended
by its owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person
would believe poses a serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious
physical injury or death to a person or a companion animal in a public place.
   VICIOUS DOG: A dog that, without justification, attacks a person and causes
serious physical injury or death or any individual dog that has been found to
be a "dangerous dog" upon three (3) separate occasions. (2010 Code)
   B.   Authority To Kill Vicious Dogs: If any vicious dog, when it is
necessary for the protection of any person or property, cannot safely be taken
up and impounded, such dog may be slain by any police officer of the city;
provided, however, that in all cases where any dog slain has bitten any person
or caused an abrasion of the skin of any such person, it shall be the duty of
the police officer slaying such dog to immediately deliver the carcass and
brain to the state department of public health.
   C.   Dangerous Dogs:
      1.   Determination Of Dangerous Dog: The animal control officer must
visit the premises to determine if the dog is a "dangerous" dog by definition.
      2.   Conditions For Keeping Dangerous Dog: If a dog is determined to be
dangerous, the following are required in order to keep the dog: (1996 Code § 5-
61; amd. 2010 Code)
         a.   A six foot (6') fenced pen with a fenced top and fenced bottom or
concrete bottom enclosing the premises, with a locked door and a "Beware Of
Dog" sign easily visible. (Ord. 1383, 10-15-2002)
         b.   The dog is also to be secured with a metal chain.
         c.   If the dog is taken outside the fenced pen, the dog must have a
metal chain, not exceeding six feet (6') in length, and be muzzled. (1996 Code
§ 5-61; amd. 2010 Code)
         d.   A yearly inspection of premises by the animal control officer is
to be performed. (1996 Code § 5-61)
         e.   Upon the occurrence of an attack, the owner or keeper of the dog
shall be required, after the dog has been confined for ten (10) days by the
animal control officer, to arrange for the humane euthanization of said dog by
a licensed veterinarian. The cost of such shall be borne by the owner or keeper
of the dog. A licensed veterinarian shall inspect the dog at the occurrence of
the bite and after impoundment for ten (10) days. (Ord. 1383, 10-15-2002; amd.
2010 Code)
6-4A-13: DOGS THAT BITE:
   A.   Confinement Required: Whenever the animal control officer receives
information that any person has been bitten by a dog, he shall have such dog
confined and observed by a licensed veterinarian.
   B.   Places Of Confinement:
      1.   Owner's Residence: If the animal control officer or veterinarian is
presented evidence that such dog has been inoculated against rabies within the
time prescribed by law prior to the biting, such dog shall be confined in the
house of its owner or in a manner that will prohibit such dog from biting any
person for a period of ten (10) days. At the end of the ten (10) day period,
the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
      2.   Confinement Elsewhere: If there is no evidence that the dog has been
inoculated against rabies within the time prescribed by law prior to the
biting, such dog shall be confined in the city dog pound or confined at any
private pound or kennel, where it may be observed at any time by a licensed
veterinarian. Such confinement shall be for a period of ten (10) days. At the
end of the ten (10) day period, the dog shall be examined by a licensed
veterinarian and his report submitted to the animal control officer. (1996 Code
§ 5-86)
   C.   Expense Of Confinement: Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog
shall be borne by the owner or keeper of the dog.
   D.   Conditions Of Release: The owner or keeper of any confined dog shall
purchase a city dog license and have the dog properly inoculated against rabies
before such dog is released from confinement.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating or aiding in or abetting the
violation of any provision of this section or counterfeiting a foregoing
certificate or tag, or resisting, obstructing, or impeding any authorized
officer in enforcing this section, or refusing to produce for inoculation any
dog in his possession which has bitten a person, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00). (1996 Code § 5-86; amd. 2010 Code)
6-4A-14: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Vaccination Required 1 : Each owner or keeper of a dog in the city
shall have his dog vaccinated against rabies annually by a licensed
veterinarian and shall obtain a certificate of vaccination from the
veterinarian and present the certificate to the city clerk, who shall register
the vaccination certificate and issue a certificate in the name of the city in
evidence thereof to the owner or keeper of the dog. (1996 Code § 5-81)
   B.   Certificate Of Vaccination And Tag Issued: Each veterinarian who
vaccinates any dog against rabies within the city shall issue a certificate of
vaccination stating the name of the dog's owner, a brief description of the dog
and the date of vaccination, and shall also furnish a metal tag to be worn
continuously by the dog for which it is issued, as evidence that the dog has
been vaccinated. (1996 Code § 5-82)
   C.   Impoundment And Disposition Of Unvaccinated Dogs Or Without Tag: It
shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog in the city to permit his
dog to be off his premises unless the dog is wearing the vaccination tag issued
pursuant to this section. Any dog not vaccinated or found off his owner's or
keeper's premises without a vaccination tag shall be impounded. The animal
control officer shall make every reasonable attempt to contact the owner as
soon as possible. The animal control officer shall give notice of not less than
seven (7) business days to the "owner", as defined in 510 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/2.16, prior to disposal of the animal. Such notice shall be mailed
to the last known address of the owner. Testimony of the animal control
officer, or his or her authorized agent, who mailed such notice shall be
evidence of the receipt of such notice by the owner of the animal. In case the
owner of any impounded dog desires to make redemption thereof, he or she may do
so as provided in subsection 6-4A-8C2 of this article. (1996 Code § 5-83; amd.
2010 Code)
   D.   Emergencies: Whenever danger from rabies shall be deemed to exist
within the city or whenever it is in the best interests of the public health
and safety of the city, the mayor may, by proclamation or by a notice published
in at least two (2) successive issues of the official newspaper of the city, if
any, and, if there is no official newspaper, then in any daily newspaper
published in the city, notify and require all persons owning or keeping dogs to
confine them or to securely muzzle them and restrain them by leash for such
time as may be designated in the proclamation or notice, or until otherwise
ordered by the city council. Every unmuzzled dog found at large during the time
specified in any such proclamation or notice shall be impounded, and any owner
or keeper of a dog who shall cause or permit any such dog to run or to be at
large contrary to the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of an
offense. (1996 Code § 5-84; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-4A-1B of this article.
ARTICLE B. CATS
SECTION:
6-4B-1: Running At Large Prohibited; Impoundment And Disposal
6-4B-1: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSAL:
   A.   Impoundment And Disposition: It shall be unlawful for any owner or
keeper of any cat in the city to permit his cat to be off his premises. Any cat
found off its owner's or keeper's premises shall be impounded, and if not
claimed within three (3) days, it shall be the duty of the animal control
officer to dispose of the cat. (1996 Code § 5-92; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment: When any cat shall be impounded, the chief of
police, his delegated agent, or the animal control officer shall cause notice
to be given in person, by mail or by telephone to the owner of the cat
impounded, if known. Said notice shall be given not later than two (2) days
after picking up the cat.
   C.   Fees For Impoundment And Boarding: Any cat which is impounded or taken
up for being at large may be redeemed by the owner or keeper of such cat upon
the payment of a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for impounding charges and
five dollars ($5.00) for each day the cat is impounded, and any other costs of
keeping such cat while impounded, which sum shall be accounted for by the
animal control officer and paid into the city treasury. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: State Criminal Code Adopted
6-5-2: Penalty
6-5-1: STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et
seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if
proceeded hereunder. (2010 Code)
6-5-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1996 Code § 20-71; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST THE PEACE
SECTION:
6-5A-1: Assault
6-5A-2: Battery
6-5A-3: Disorderly Conduct
6-5A-4: Noisy Conditions
6-5A-5: CB Radios
6-5A-6: Assemblies
6-5A-7: Public Intoxication
6-5A-8: Throwing Missiles
6-5A-9: Vagrancy
6-5A-1: ASSAULT:
No person shall commit the offense of assault. A person commits an assault
when, without lawful authority, he engages in conduct which places another in
reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. (1996 Code § 20-35)
6-5A-2: BATTERY:
No person shall commit the offense of battery. A person commits battery if he
intentionally or knowingly, without legal justification and by any means:
   A.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
   B.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (1996 Code § 20-36)
6-5A-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct, which is prohibited, when he knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb another
and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   B.   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   C.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department a false alarm of fire,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such fire exists; (1996 Code § 20-34)
   D.   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to another a false
alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive
substance is concealed in such place that its explosion or release would
endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no
reasonable ground for believing that such bomb, explosive or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive
substance is concealed in such place; (1996 Code § 20-34; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   F.   Enters upon the property of another and, for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it. (1996 Code § 20-34)
6-5A-4: NOISY CONDITIONS 1 :
No person shall shout, bawl, scream, use profane or obscene language, dance,
sing, fight, quarrel or make any unusual noise or sound in any house or in any
part of the city in such a manner as to disturb the peace of the neighborhood
or those persons passing through the streets. (1996 Code § 20-37)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1-1K of this code.
6-5A-5: CB RADIOS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use a citizens band radio in such a
manner as to disturb another or to interfere with another's use of his or her
television, radio, or telephone. (Ord. 1224, 2-24-1998)
6-5A-6: ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   Unlawful Assemblies 1 : It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a
member of any disorderly crowd or any crowd gathered for any unlawful purpose.
(1996 Code § 20-38)
   B.   Disturbing Assemblies: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb
any lawful assemblage or gathering in the city. (1996 Code § 20-39)
 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 5-1-1N of this code.
6-5A-7: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition in or
upon any street, alley, or roadway in the city. (1996 Code § 20-40; amd. 2010
Code)
6-5A-8: THROWING MISSILES:
It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any stone, rock or other object
or missile upon any street, alley or other public place. (1996 Code § 20-41)
6-5A-9: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for mendicants or vagrants to sleep in or loiter in any
depot, store, theater, street, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place or
place frequented by the public. (1996 Code § 20-6; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-5B-1: Damage To Property
6-5B-2: Damage To City Supported Property
6-5B-3: Trespass To Land
6-5B-4: Trespass On City Supported Lands
6-5B-5: Trespass To Vehicles
6-5B-1: DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
Whoever commits any of the following acts shall be punished as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code:
   A.   Knowingly damages any property of another without his consent;
   B.   Recklessly, by means of fire or explosive, damages property of another;
   C.   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another without his consent;
   D.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his consent;
   E.   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another, without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby
intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or building; or
   F.   Damages any property with intent to defraud an insurer. (1996 Code §
20-19)
6-5B-2: DAMAGE TO CITY SUPPORTED PROPERTY:
Whoever commits any of the following acts shall be punished as prescribed in
section
1-4-1 of this code:
   A.   Knowingly damages any property supported in whole or in part with city
funds administered or granted through a city agency without the consent of the
city;
   B.   Knowingly, by means of fire or explosive, damages property supported in
whole or in part with city funds administered or granted through city agencies;
(1996 Code § 20-22)
   C.   Knowingly starts a fire on property supported in whole or in part with
city funds administered or granted through city agencies without the consent of
the city; or (1996 Code § 20-22; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Knowingly deposits on land or in a building supported in whole or in
part with city funds, or funds administered or granted through city agencies,
without the consent of the city, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling
compound and thereby intends to interfere with the use by another of the land
or building. (1996 Code § 20-22)
6-5B-3: TRESPASS TO LAND:
   A.   Prohibited: Whoever enters upon the land or any part thereof of
another, after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the
owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of
another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart, shall be
punished as prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Notice Requirements: A person has received notice from the owner or
occupant within the meaning of subsection A of this section if he has been
notified personally, either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written
notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the
main entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof. (1996 Code § 20-21)
6-5B-4: TRESPASS ON CITY SUPPORTED LANDS:
   A.   Prohibited: Whoever enters upon land supported in whole or in part with
city funds, or funds administered or granted through city agencies or any
building on such land, after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice
from the city or its representative that such entry is forbidden, or remains
upon such land or in such building after receiving notice from the city or its
representative to depart, and who thereby interferes with another person's
lawful use or enjoyment of such building or land, shall be punished as
prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Notice Requirements: A person has received notice from the city within
the meaning of subsection A of this section if he has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry to him or a group of which he is a part, has been conspicuously posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof.
(1996 Code § 20-23)
   C.   Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years to loiter or remain in any park or within five hundred feet (500')
of any park or school grounds during such days and times that school is in
session. This subsection shall not apply to students attending classes during
the hours that school is in session, students participating in school related
activities, or to students involved and participating in activities sponsored
by the parks and recreation department of the city. This subsection shall also
not apply to those persons under the age of eighteen (18) years who are
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. It shall be considered sufficient
notice for the purposes of this section that this subsection be printed and
published in pamphlet form. (Ord. 1216, 10-7-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
6-5B-5: TRESPASS TO VEHICLES:
Whoever knowingly and without authority enters any vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft, or any part thereof, of another without his consent shall be
punished as prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1996 Code § 20-20)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALS AND DECENCY
SECTION:
6-5C-1: Gambling
6-5C-2: Prostitution
6-5C-3: Public Indecency
6-5C-4: Obscenity
6-5C-5: Drug Paraphernalia
6-5C-6: Banning Controlled Substances Known As "K2" Or "Spice"; Penalties
6-5C-7: Banning Controlled Substances Known As "MDPV" Or "Bath Salts"
6-5C-1: GAMBLING:
   A.   Prohibitions And Exemptions:
      1.   A person commits gambling, which shall be unlawful, when he:
         a.   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing of
value.
         b.   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any
political nomination, appointment or election.
         c.   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any gambling
device.
         d.   Contracts to have or give himself or another the option to buy or
sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or other
commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it is, at
the time of making such contract, intended by both parties thereto that the
contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof.
         e.   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he has received in the course of a bet or
wager.
         f.   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election.
         g.   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or
transfers any ticket or share for any lottery.
         h.   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record, document or
other similar device.
         i.   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or
share, or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except
for such activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by
and conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state or
foreign government.
         j.   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of Illinois or any other state.
         k.   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except, that nothing in this subsection A1k
prohibits transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests.
         l.   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the internet. This subsection A1l does not apply to activities referenced in
subsections A2f and A2g of this section.
      2.   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be
convicted of gambling:
         a.   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happenings of
chance including, without limitation, contracts of indemnity or guaranty and
life or health or accident insurance;
         b.   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
         c.   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the laws of the State;
         d.   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside the State when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable Federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution, or possession of "video gaming terminals", as
defined in the Video Gaming Act 1 , by manufacturers, distributors, and
terminal operators licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act;
         e.   The game commonly known as "bingo" when conducted in accordance
with the Bingo License and Tax Act 2 ;
         f.   Lotteries when conducted by the State in accordance with the
Illinois Lottery Law 3 . This exemption includes any activity conducted by the
Department of Revenue to sell lottery tickets pursuant to the provisions of the
Illinois Lottery Law and its rules;
         g.   The purchase of lottery tickets through the internet for a
lottery conducted by the State of Illinois under the program established in
section 7.12 of the Illinois Lottery Law, 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1605/
7.12;
         h.   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this subsection A2h, an antique slot
machine is one manufactured twenty five (25) years ago or earlier;
         i.   Raffles when conducted in accordance with the Raffles Act 4 ;
         j.   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Charitable
Games Act 5 ;
         k.   Pull-tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois Pull-
Tabs and Jar Games Act 6 ;
         l.   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized by the
Riverboat Gambling Act 7 ; or (1996 Code § 20-7; amd. 2010 Code)
         m.   Video gaming when conducted in accordance with the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1, et seq., a valid Class J
liquor license, and the regulations of title 4, chapter 8 of this Code. (Ord.
1739, 2-12-2019)
   B.   Gambling Houses And Paraphernalia:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep a place of gambling in
the City by himself or his agent, or to procure or permit any persons to
frequent or to come together to play for money or other valuable thing at any
game at any place in the City.
      2.   It shall also be unlawful for any person to possess or use any
table, device, handbook, bagatelle, pigeonhole table or paraphernalia or other
apparatus for gambling or playing at any game or sport for money or other
valuable thing, or to keep or allow to be used or rented any place where a
table, device, handbook, bagatelle, pigeonhole table, paraphernalia or other
apparatus is so used. (1996 Code § 20-8)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
2 1. 230 ILCS 25/1 et seq.
3 2. 20 ILCS 1605/1 et seq.
4 3. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
5 4. 230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
6 5. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
7 6. 230 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
6-5C-2: PROSTITUTION:
   A.   Prohibited: Any person who performs, offers or agrees to perform any of
the following acts for money commits an act of prostitution which is
prohibited:
      1.   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
      2.   Any act of deviate sexual conduct. (1996 Code § 20-54)
   B.   Place Of Prostitution: Any person who has or exercises control over the
use of any place which could offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of
prostitution and who performs any of the following acts shall be guilty of
keeping a place of prostitution which is prohibited:
      1.   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such place for the purpose of
prostitution;
      2.   Grants or permits the use of such place under circumstances from
which he could reasonably know that the place is used or is to be used for
purposes of prostitution; or
      3.   Permits the continued use of a place after becoming aware of facts
or circumstances from which he should reasonably know that the place is being
used for purposes of prostitution. (1996 Code § 20-55)
6-5C-3: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   Prohibitions And Exemptions:
      1.   Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and upwards who
performs any of the following acts in a public place commits a public indecency
which is prohibited: (1996 Code § 20-52)
         a.   An act of "sexual penetration" or "sexual conduct" as defined in
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-12; or
         b.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
      2.   Breast feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency. (1996
Code § 20-52; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Definition: "Public place", for the purposes of this section, means any
place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(1996 Code § 20-52)
6-5C-4: OBSCENITY:
   A.   Definition: Any material or performance is "obscene" if:
      1.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and
      2.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate
sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the
genitals; and
      3.   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value. (1996 Code § 20-53; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Elements Of The Offense: A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he:
      1.   Sells, delivers or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver or
provide any obscene writing, picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      2.   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      3.   Publishes, exhibits or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      4.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his body for gain;
      5.   Creates, buys, procures or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      6.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   C.   Admissibility Of Evidence: In any prosecution for an offense under this
section, evidence shall be admissible to show:
      1.   The character of the audience for which the material was designed or
to which it was directed.
      2.   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would probably have
on the behavior of such people.
      3.   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational or other merits of
the material, or absence thereof.
      4.   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in the
state.
      5.   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising or
other promotion of the material.
      6.   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher or disseminator.
   D.   Interpretation Of Evidence:
      1.   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults; except,
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience. (1996 Code § 20-53)
      2.   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political
or scientific value. (1996 Code § 20-53; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Prima Facie Evidence Of Intent To Disseminate: The creation, purchase,
procurement or possession of a mold, engraved plate or other embodiment or
obscenity specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession
of more than three (3) copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence
of an intent to disseminate.
   F.   Affirmative Defenses: It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      1.   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material. (1996 Code § 20-53)
6-5C-5: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Sale Or Delivery:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   Any person who keeps for sale, offers for sale, sells or delivers
for any commercial consideration any item of drug paraphernalia commits a class
4 felony for which a minimum fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
such item shall be imposed.
         b.   Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older who sells or
delivers for any commercial consideration any item of drug paraphernalia to a
person under eighteen (18) years of age is guilty of a class 3 felony.
         c.   Any person who sells or delivers for a commercial consideration
any item of drug paraphernalia to a woman he knows to be pregnant is guilty of
a class 2 felony.
         d.   No person or business shall acquire, offer for sale, sell, or
deliver any item defined by Illinois state law (720 [LCS 660/2 (d)) as drug
paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should
know, that such drug paraphernalia will be used to ingest, inject, inhale, or
otherwise introduce into the human body any controlled or banned substance
under state law (720 [LCS 570/102), and if that item has also been deemed by
the Chief of Police or his designee, upon a supported basis, to be an item
almost wholly used to ingest, inject, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the
human body any controlled or banned substance under state law (720 ILCS 570/
102), including but not limited to, glass tubing commonly utilized for
ingestion of crack cocaine, glass or metal pipes commonly used to inhale or to
introduce any controlled or banned substance into the human body. Upon the
order of the Chief of Police or his designee, with the supported basis that an
item or items are used almost wholly to ingest, inject, inhale, or otherwise
introduce into the human body controlled or banned substances under state or
federal law, or this ordinance as stated above, the person or business shall
cease to expose for sale, sell or offer for sale, or delivery to any person,
directly or indirectly, the item or items so designated within 14 days of the
issuance of such order.
         e.   Violation of sub-paragraph d. of this Section
6-5C-5  A.1. shall be punishable by a fine of up to one hundred dollars
($100.00) and incarceration of up to thirty (30) days in jail for the first
offense, and up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and up to thirty (30)
days in jail for the second and each subsequent offense.
      2.   Nuisance Declared; Action By City:
         a.   Any store, place, or premises from which or in which any item of
drug paraphernalia is kept for sale, offered for sale, sold, or delivered for
any commercial consideration is declared to be a public nuisance.
         b.   The city attorney may commence an action in the circuit court, in
the name of the people of the city of Jerseyville, Illinois, to abate the
public nuisance as described in subsection A2a of this section.
         c.   Upon being satisfied by affidavits or other sworn evidence that
an alleged public nuisance exists, the court may, without bond, enter a
temporary restraining order to enjoin any defendant from maintaining the
nuisance and may, without bond, enter a preliminary injunction restraining any
defendant from removing or interfering with any property used in connection
with the public nuisance.
         d.   If, during the proceedings and hearings upon the merits, the
existence of the nuisance is established, and it is established that the
nuisance was maintained with the intentional, knowing or reckless permission of
the owner, or an agent of the owner managing the premises, the court shall
enter an order restraining all persons from maintaining or permitting the
nuisance and from using the premises for a period of one year thereafter.
However an owner, lessee, or other occupant thereof may use the premises if the
owner gives bond with sufficient security or surety, in an amount between five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), approved by
the court, payable to the people of the city of Jerseyville, Illinois. The bond
shall include a condition that no offense specified in this section shall be
committed at, in, or upon the property described, and a condition that the
principal obligor and surety assume responsibility for any fine, costs or
damages incurred by any person resulting from such an offense.
   B.   Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia: 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/
3.5 is adopted in full as follows or as subsequently amended:
      (a)   A person who knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing a
controlled substance into the human body, or in preparing a controlled
substance for that use, is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor for which the court
shall impose a minimum fine of $750.00 in addition to any other penalty
prescribed for a Class A misdemeanor. This subsection (a) does not apply to a
person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or needles
under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act.
      (b)   In determining intent under subsection (a), the trier of fact may
take into consideration the proximity of the controlled substances to drug
paraphernalia or the presence of a controlled substance on the drug
paraphernalia.
   C.   Exempt Items; Determination: 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/4 is
adopted in full as follows or as subsequently amended:
      This Act shall not apply to:
      (a)   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging, labeling, or
other use of a controlled substance as an incident to lawful research,
teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale.
      (b)   Items historically and customarily used, in connection with the
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
or inhaling of cannabis, tobacco or any other lawful substance.
      Items exempt under this subsection include, but are not limited to,
garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling
papers.
      (c)   Items listed in Section 2 of this act which are used for decorative
purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable
of being used for illicit purpose prohibited by this act.
      (d)   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes
or needles under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act.
   In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this
subsection, the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following:
         (1)   the general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the
item involved has been put;
         (2)   expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
device upon its functioning;
         (3)   any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
         (4)   any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
         (5)   any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose
or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
         (6)   the manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
         (7)   whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of cannabis or tobacco products;
         (8)   the existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
   D.   Forfeiture And Seizure Of Property: 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/
5 is adopted in full as follows or as amended:
      (a)   All drug paraphernalia is subject to forfeiture.
      (b)   Property subject to forfeiture under this Act may be seized by any
peace officer upon process issued by any court having jurisdiction over the
property. Judgments in favor of the city in a criminal or forfeiture proceeding
based upon this Act against a person’s specific property shall serve as process
authorizing a police officer to seize such property without further process.
Seizure by a police officer may be made without process:
         (1)   If there is probable cause to believe that the property is
directly dangerous to health or safety, and existing circumstances do not allow
reasonable time for the officer to obtain lawful process; or
         (2)   In accordance with the provisions of The Code of Criminal
Procedure of 1963, as amended.
         (3)   The presence of items which are deemed violative of this Act or
are otherwise subject to the forfeiture provisions in an inventory shall not
subject the entire inventory to seizure or forfeiture.
      (c)   Custody Of Police: Property taken or detained under this section
shall not be subject to replevin but is deemed to be in the custody of the law
enforcement department or agency employing the seizing officer, subject only to
the order and judgments of the circuit court having jurisdiction over the
forfeiture proceedings. When property is seized under this Act, the chief
administrative officer of the seizing department or agency may place the
property under seal or remove the property to a place designated by him.
      (d)   No disposition may be made of property under sea/ until the
validity of the seizure has been determined in a Circuit Court, unless such
court, upon application therefor, orders the sale of perishable substances and
the deposit of the proceeds of the sale with the clerk of the court. The
Circuit Court shall rule on the validity of the seizure within 30 days after
the seizure, unless a continuance is obtained by a person from whom the items
were seized or a person who otherwise has standing to complain, or by the City
or State for good cause shown. In no event shall a continuance be granted to
the City or State pursuant to this section extend beyond 30 days. If judgment
is entered in favor of the person from whom the property is seized, al/ seized
property shall be returned immediately. Appeals from orders of the Circuit
Court shall be heard within 60 days from the date judgment is entered.
Judgments in favor of the person entitled to possession of the subject property
shall serve as a mandate to the agency holding such property to return same
forthwith.
      (e)   When property is forfeited under this Act the chief administrative
officer of the seizing department of agency may retain it for official use or
forward it to the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, United States
Department of Justice, or its successor agency, for disposition.
   E.   Additional Statutes Adopted: 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1, 600/
2, 600/6, and 600/7, as amended from time to time, are adopted in full by
reference and made a part of this code. (Ord. 1213, 8-26-1997; amd. 2010 Code;
Ord. 1688, 12-14-2022; Ord. 1782, 11-29-2022)
6-5C-6: BANNING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES KNOWN AS "K2" OR "SPICE"; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city of Jerseyville to
possess, distribute, or use 1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole,
cannabicyclohexaneol, JWH-108, JWH-073, and HU-210, or any product containing
any of these chemical components or derivatives, commonly known as "K2" or
"spice", a synthetic version of marijuana, hereinafter collectively referred to
as "K2".
   B.   Violation of subsection A of this section by possession, distribution,
or use of K2 or said products shall be punishable by a fine of up to one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and incarceration of up to thirty (30) days in jail
for the first offense, and up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and up
to thirty (30) days in jail for the second and each subsequent offense. (Ord.
1557, 12-14-2010)
6-5C-7: BANNING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES KNOWN AS "MDPV" OR "BATH SALTS":
   A.   Purpose: This section is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city of Jerseyville by
prohibiting the possession, distribution or delivery of any substance
containing "MDPV" as hereinafter defined, it being the specific finding of the
city of Jerseyville that such substances have a dangerous effect upon anyone
using said substances and have no medicinal or beneficial purposes.
   B.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words have the
meanings as hereinafter provided:
 
                                                          The actual, constructive,
                                                          or attempted transfer from
DELIVER:                                                  one person to another of
                                                          MDPV, whether or not there
                                                          is an agency relationship,
                                                          and includes a sale.
                                                          Any synthetic derivative
                                                          psychoactive compound of
                                                          the hemp plant or Cannabis
                                                          Sativa plant, containing
                                                          unknown levels of the
                                                          psychoactive drug
                                                          tetrahydrocannabinol
                                                          (THC), synthesized by use
                                                          of additional chemicals,
                                                          and includes any material,
DELTA-8 aka “DELTA 8 - THC” aka DELTA 8 - TETRAHYDRO- compound, mixture,
CANNABINOL:                                               preparation, or any other
                                                          synthetic compound
                                                          containing any quantity of
                                                          tetrahydrocannabinol
                                                          (THC), generally having a
                                                          stimulant or intoxicating
                                                          effect on the central
                                                          nervous system, and
                                                          regardless of how the
                                                          product is named by its
                                                          manufacturer, synthesizer,
                                                          or distributor.
                                                          A total delta-
                                                          9 tetrahydrocannabinol
                                                          content concentration
                                                          level in excess of 0.3
                                                          percent on a dry weight
                                                          basis for hemp or in a
                                                          hemp product as determined
                                                          in accordance with the
                                                          Illinois Hemp Act, and any
                                                          other material, compound,
                                                          mixture, or preparation,
                                                          or any other synthetic
                                                          compound, containing any
                                                          quantity of
DELTA-9 THC IN EXCESS OF 0.3% CONCENTRATION:              tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)
                                                          content in excess of 0.3
                                                          %, regardless of how the
                                                          product is named by its
                                                          manufacturer, synthesizer,
                                                          or distributor. All
                                                          packaging of any material,
                                                          compound, mixture, or
                                                          preparation containing any
                                                          quantity of delta-
                                                          9 tetrahydrocannabinol
                                                          content, must have the
                                                          concentration level of
                                                          said content clearly
                                                          listed on the label.
                                                          To deliver other than by
DISTRIBUTE:                                               administering or
                                                          dispensing MDPV.
                                                          Any material, compound,
                                                          mixture or preparation
                                                          containing any quantity of
                                                          the following substances
                                                          having a stimulant effect
                                                          on the central nervous
                                                          system: the leaves, bark,
KRATOM:                                                   or other parts of a
                                                          tropical tree known as
                                                          "Mitragyna speciose"
                                                          containing psychoactive
                                                          opioid compounds, and
                                                          sometimes known as: Herbal
                                                          Speedball, Biak-Biak,
                                                          Ketum, Kahuam, lthang and
                                                          Thom.
                                                          Includes any material,
                                                          compound, mixture or
                                                          preparation containing any
                                                          quantity of the following
                                                          substances having a
                                                          stimulant effect on the
                                                          central nervous system,
MDPV:                                                     including their salts,
                                                          isomers and salts of
                                                          isomers of 3.4
                                                          Methylenedloxyprovalerone,
                                                          Methylone, Mephedrone, 4-
                                                          methoxymethcathione, 4-
                                                          Flourmethcathinine, and 3-
                                                          Flouromethcathinone.
                                                          With the knowledge of the
                                                          presence and nature of a
                                                          substance, either actually
                                                          or constructively in
                                                          control of a substance. A
                                                          person has actual
                                                          possession if he has the
                                                          substance on his person or
                                                          within easy reach and
POSSESS:                                                  convenient control. A
                                                          person who, although not
                                                          in actual possession, has
                                                          the power and intention at
                                                          a given time to exercise
                                                          dominion or control over
                                                          the substance either
                                                          directly or through
                                                          another person or persons
                                                          is in constructive
                                                          possession of it.
 
   C.   General Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess,
distribute, deliver, or use any substance containing "MDPV" as defined in this
section.
   D.   Violation, Penalties: Violation of subsection C of this section by
possession, distribution, delivery, or use of any substance containing "MDPV"
as defined in this section shall be punishable by a fine of up to one hundred
dollars ($100.00) and incarceration of up to thirty (30) days in jail for the
first offense, and up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) and up to thirty
(30) days in jail for the second and each subsequent offense. (Ord. 1565, 5-17-
2011; amd. Ord. 1695, 4-11-2017; Ord. 1783, 12-9-2022)
ARTICLE D. OFFENSES INVOLVING WEAPONS
SECTION:
6-5D-1: Unlawful Use Of Weapons
6-5D-2: Unlawful Sale Of Firearms
6-5D-3: Discharge Of Firearms
6-5D-4: Discharge Of Air Guns And Spring Guns
6-5D-5: Confiscation And Disposition Of Weapons
6-5D-1: UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS:
   A.   A person commits the offense of unlawful use of weapons when he
knowingly:
      1.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries any bludgeon,
blackjack, slingshot, sand club, sand bag, metal knuckles or other knuckle
weapon regardless of its composition, throwing star, or any knife, commonly
referred to as a switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically
by hand pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of
the knife, or a ballistic knife, which is a device that propels a knifelike
blade as a projectile by means of a coil spring, elastic material or compressed
gas; or
      2.   Carries or possesses, with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, stun gun or taser or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon or instrument of like character; or
      3.   Carries on or about his person or in any vehicle a tear gas gun
projector or bomb or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance,
other than an object containing a nonlethal noxious liquid gas or substance
designed solely for personal defense carried by a person eighteen (18) years of
age or older; or
      4.   Carries or possesses in any vehicle or concealed on or about his
person except when on his land or in his own abode, legal dwelling, or fixed
place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling of another person as
an invitee with that person's permission, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or
taser or other firearm; except, that this subsection A4 does not apply to or
affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
         a.   Are broken down in a nonfunctioning state; or
         b.   Are not immediately accessible; or
         c.   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner's identification card; or
      5.   Sets a spring gun; or
      6.   Possesses any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
      7.   Sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses or carries:
         a.   A "machine gun", which shall be defined for the purposes of this
subsection A7 as any weapon which shoots, is designed to shoot, or can be
readily restored to shoot automatically more than one shot without manually
reloading by a single function of the trigger, including the frame or receiver
of any such weapon, or sells, manufactures, purchases, possesses, or carries
any combination of parts designed or intended for use in converting any weapon
into a machine gun, or any combination or parts from which a machine gun can be
assembled if such parts are in the possession or under the control of a person;
or
         b.   Any rifle having one or more barrels less than sixteen inches
(16") in length or a shotgun having one or more barrels less than eighteen
inches (18") in length or any weapon made from a rifle or shotgun, whether by
alteration, modification, or otherwise, if such a weapon as modified has an
overall length of less than twenty six inches (26"); or
         c.   Any bomb, bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container
containing an explosive substance of over one-fourth (1/4) ounce for like
purposes, such as, but not limited to, black powder bombs and molotov cocktails
or artillery projectiles; or
      8.   Carries or possesses any firearm, stun gun or taser or other deadly
weapon in any place which is licensed to sell intoxicating beverages, or at any
public gathering held pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or
any public gathering at which an admission is charged, excluding a place where
a showing, demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded
firearms is conducted. This subsection A8 shall not apply to any auction or
raffle of a firearm held pursuant to a license or permit issued by a
governmental body, nor does it apply to persons engaged in firearm safety
training courses; or
      9.   Carries or possesses in a vehicle or on or about his person any
pistol, revolver, stun gun or taser or firearm or ballistic knife when he is
hooded, robed or masked in such manner as to conceal his identity; or
      10.   Carries or possesses on or about his person, upon any public
street, alley, or other public lands within the corporate limits of the city,
except when an invitee thereon or therein, for the purpose of the display of
such weapon or the lawful commerce in weapons, or except when on his land or in
his own abode or fixed place of business, any pistol, revolver, stun gun or
taser or other firearm; except that this subsection A10 does not apply to or
affect transportation of weapons that meet one of the following conditions:
         a.   Are broken down in a nonfunctioning state; or
         b.   Are not immediately accessible; or
         c.   Are unloaded and enclosed in a case, firearm carrying box,
shipping box, or other container by a person who has been issued a currently
valid firearm owner's identification card; or
      11.   Sells, manufactures or purchases any explosive bullet. For purposes
of this subsection A11 "explosive bullet" means the projectile portion of an
ammunition cartridge which contains or carries an explosive charge which will
explode upon contact with the flesh of a human or an animal. "Cartridge" means
a tubular metal case having a projectile affixed at the front thereof and a cap
or primer at the rear end thereof, with the propellant contained in such tube
between the projectile and the cap; or
      12.   Carries or possesses on or about his or her person while in a
building occupied by a unit of government, a billy club, other weapon of like
character, or other instrument of like character intended for use as a weapon.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, the following words and terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    BILLY CLUB: A short stick or club commonly carried by police officers which
is either telescopic or constructed of a solid piece of wood or other manmade
material.
   STUN GUN OR TASER: 1. Any device which is powered by electrical charging
units, such as, batteries, and which fires one or several barbs attached to a
length of wire and which, upon hitting a human, can send out a current capable
of disrupting the person's nervous system in such a manner as to render him
incapable of normal functioning; or
      2.   Any device which is powered by electrical charging units, such as
batteries, and which, upon contact with a human or clothing worn by a human,
can send out current capable of disrupting the person's nervous system in such
a manner as to render him incapable of normal functioning. (2010 Code)
6-5D-2: UNLAWFUL SALE OF FIREARMS:
   A.   A person commits the offense of unlawful sale of firearms when he
knowingly:
      1.   Sells or gives any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the
person to any person under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   Sells or gives any firearm to a person under twenty one (21) years
of age who has been convicted of a misdemeanor other than a traffic offense or
adjudged delinquent;
      3.   Sells or gives any firearm to any narcotic addict;
      4.   Sells or gives any firearm to any person who has been convicted of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other jurisdiction;
      5.   Sells or gives any firearm to any person who has been a patient in a
mental hospital within the past five (5) years; (1996 Code § 20-67)
      6.   Sells or gives any firearm to any person who is mentally challenged;
      7.   Delivers any firearm of a size which may be concealed upon the
person, incidental to a sale, without withholding delivery of such firearm for
at least seventy two (72) hours after application for its purchase has been
made, or delivers any rifle, shotgun or other long gun, or a stun gun or taser,
incidental to a sale, without withholding delivery of such rifle, shotgun or
other long gun, or a stun gun or taser, for at least twenty four (24) hours
after application for its purchase has been made. However, this subsection A7
does not apply to: a) the sale of a firearm to a law enforcement officer if the
seller of the firearm knows that the person to whom he or she is selling the
firearm is a law enforcement officer or to the sale of a firearm to a person
who desires to purchase a firearm for use in promoting the public interest
incident to his or her employment as a bank guard, armed truck guard, or other
similar employment; b) a mail order sale of a firearm to a nonresident of
Illinois under which the firearm is mailed to a point outside the boundaries of
Illinois; c) the sale of a firearm to a nonresident of Illinois while at a
firearm showing or display recognized by the Illinois department of state
police; or d) the sale of a firearm to a dealer licensed as a federal firearms
dealer under section 923 of the federal gun control act of 1968 (18 USC 923).
For the purposes of this subsection A7, "application" means when the buyer and
seller reach an agreement to purchase a firearm;
      8.   While holding any license as a dealer, importer, manufacturer or
pawnbroker under the federal gun control act of 1968 (18 USC 923),
manufactures, sells or delivers to any unlicensed person a handgun having a
barrel, slide, frame or receiver which is a die casting of zinc alloy or any
other nonhomogeneous metal which will melt or deform at a temperature of less
than eight hundred degrees Fahrenheit (800°F). For purposes of this subsection
A8, "firearm" is defined as in the firearm owners identification card act 1 ,
and "handgun" is defined as a firearm designed to be held and fired by the use
of a single hand, and includes a combination of parts from which such a firearm
can be assembled.
This subsection A8 does not include firearms sold within six (6) months after
enactment of public act 78-355 (approved August 21, 1973, effective October 1,
1973), nor is any firearm legally owned or possessed by any citizen or
purchased by any citizen within six (6) months after the enactment of public
act 78-355 subject to confiscation or seizure under the provisions of that
public act. Nothing in public act 78-355 shall be construed to prohibit the
gift or trade of any firearm if that firearm was legally held or acquired
within six (6) months after the enactment of that public act;
      9.   Sells or gives a firearm of any size to any person under eighteen
(18) years of age who does not possess a valid firearm owner's identification
card;
      10.   Sells or gives a firearm while engaged in the business of selling
firearms at wholesale or retail without being licensed as a federal firearms
dealer under section 923 of the federal gun control act of 1968 (18 USC 923).
In this subsection A10, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings:
    A PERSON ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS: A person who devotes time, attention, and
labor to engaging in the activity as a regular course of trade or business with
the principal objective of livelihood and profit, but does not include a person
who makes occasional repairs of firearms or who occasionally fits special
barrels, stocks, or trigger mechanisms to firearms.
   WITH THE PRINCIPAL OBJECTIVE OF LIVELIHOOD AND PROFIT: The intent underlying
the sale or disposition of firearms is predominantly one of obtaining
livelihood and pecuniary gain, as opposed to other intents, such as improving
or liquidating a personal firearms collection; however, proof of profit shall
not be required as to a person who engages in the regular and repetitive
purchase and disposition of firearms for criminal purposes or terrorism; or
      11.   Sells or transfers ownership of a firearm to a person who does not
display to the seller or transferor of the firearm a currently valid firearm
owner's identification card that has previously been issued in the transferee's
name by the department of state police under the provisions of the firearm
owners identification card act. This subsection A11 does not apply to the
transfer of a firearm to a person who is exempt from the requirement of
possessing a firearm owner's identification card under section 2 of the firearm
owners identification card act.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, "a currently valid firearm owner's
identification card" means:
      1.   A firearm owner's identification card that has not expired; or
      2.   If the transferor is licensed as a federal firearms dealer under
section 923 of the federal gun control act of 1968 (18 USC 923), an approval
number issued in accordance with section 3.1 of the firearm owners
identification card act, 430 Illinois Compiled Statutes 65/3.1 shall be proof
that the firearm owner's identification card was valid. (1996 Code § 20-67;
amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 430 ILCS 65/0.01 et seq.
6-5D-3: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except a peace officer or an officer of
any court whose duty it may be to serve warrants or make arrests, to fire or
discharge any gun, pistol, fowling piece or other firearm, within the corporate
limits of the city, except within a totally enclosed building licensed by the
city to permit the discharge of firearms therein. (1996 Code § 20-70)
6-5D-4: DISCHARGE OF AIR GUNS AND SPRING GUNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge upon any street,
public parkway, public alley or other public place or way within the city, or
out of doors of any place within the city within one thousand feet (1,000') of
any such public way, any air gun or air pistol, spring gun or spring pistol or
other device, which is calculated or intended to propel or project a bullet,
pellet, arrow or similar projectile. Weapons used in violation of this section
shall be forfeited to and confiscated by the city. (1996 Code § 20-69)
6-5D-5: CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Confiscation: Upon conviction of a violation of any provision of this
article, any weapon seized shall be confiscated by the trial court.
   B.   Disposition: Any stolen weapon so confiscated, when no longer needed
for evidentiary purposes, shall be returned to the person entitled to
possession, if known. All other confiscated weapons, when no longer needed for
evidentiary purposes, shall be preserved as property of the city. (1996 Code §
20-68)
ARTICLE E. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC OFFICIALS
SECTION:
6-5E-1: Impersonating City Officer Or Employee
6-5E-2: Interfering With City Officers And Employees
6-5E-1: IMPERSONATING CITY OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate without lawful authority any
city officer or employee. (1996 Code § 20-4)
6-5E-2: INTERFERING WITH CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of the
city who is engaged in the duties of his office or employment. (1996 Code § 20-
5)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Curfew Regulations
6-6-2: Halloween Activities Restricted
6-6-3: Abandoned Containers
6-6-4: Responsibility Of Parents And Guardians
6-6-5: Tobacco Products, Electronic Cigarette, Nicotine, And Alternative
Nicotine Products
6-6-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: Whenever used in this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CURFEW HOURS: Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Saturday;
      Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. on Sunday; and
      Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN:
      1.   A person who, under court order, is the legal guardian of the person
of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with which a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly permits or, by
insufficient control, allows the minor to remain in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act, as amended 1 .
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Penalties: A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00); except, that
neither a person who has been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court
act of 1987 2 , nor that person's guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In
addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this subsection, the court may
order a parent, guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of
subsection B of this section to perform community service as determined by the
court; except, that the guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the
court under the juvenile court act of 1987 may not be ordered to perform
community service. The dates and times established for the performance of
community service by the parent, guardian, or other person convicted of a
violation of subsection B of this section shall not conflict with the dates and
times that the person is employed in his or her regular occupation. (1996 Code
§ 20-2; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 2. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
6-6-2: HALLOWEEN ACTIVITIES RESTRICTED:
   A.   October 31: It shall be unlawful for any child or person of any age to
make a trick or treat call in masquerade clothes to any home in the city except
on the evening designated by the city council, which shall be the evening of
October 31. (1996 Code § 20-3; amd. Ord. 1407, 9-30-2003)
   B.   Age: It shall be unlawful for any child or person over the age of
twelve (12) years to make a trick or treat call to any home in the city at any
time. (1996 Code § 20-3)
   C.   Hours: It shall be unlawful for any child or person to make a trick or
treat call to any home, except between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on the evening permitted by subsection A of this
section. (1996 Code § 20-3; amd. Ord. 1407, 9-30-2003)
6-6-3: ABANDONED CONTAINERS 1 :
Whoever abandons or discards in any place accessible to children any
refrigerator, icebox or ice chest of a capacity of one and one-half (11/2)
cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door which may be opened or
fastened shut by means of an attached latch, or who, being the owner, lessee or
manager of such place, knowingly permits such abandoned or discarded
refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain there in such condition shall be
guilty of an offense. (1996 Code § 20-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-1-1O of this code.
6-6-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms specified have the meanings ascribed to them in this
subsection: (1996 Code § 20-3.1)
    LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by
any court of the state of Illinois, but does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor pursuant to the Illinois juvenile court
act 1  or similar acts.
   MINOR: Any person who is above the age of ten (10) years but not yet
seventeen (17) years of age. (1996 Code § 20-3.1; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: A parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be
presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to
exercise proper parental responsibility, and said minor shall be deemed to have
committed the acts described along with the knowledge and permission of the
parent or guardian, in violation of this section, upon the occurrence of the
following events:
      1.   An unemancipated minor residing with a parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service return from the
police department of the city following said adjudication or nonjudicial
sanctions; and
      3.   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in subsection B2 of this section, said minor is either adjudicated to be
in violation of any ordinance, law or statute, as described in subsection B1 of
this section, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another
official agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any
ordinance, law or statute, as described in subsection B1 of this section.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of the violation of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a crime and shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. (1996 Code § 20-3.1)
 
Notes
1 2. 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.
6-6-5: TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE, NICOTINE, AND ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCTS:
   A.   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase any cigarette, cigar,
smokeless tobacco, other tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative
nicotine product in any of its forms.
   B.   No person under 18 years of age shall possess any of the products
listed in paragraph A of this section above.
   C.   Definitions: The products listed in paragraph A of this section above
shall be defined as stated in 720 ILCS 675/1 (a-9).
   D.   Violation, Penalties: Violations of paragraphs A or B of this section
above shall be punishable by a fine of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00).
(Ord. 1793, 8-22-2023)
CHAPTER 7
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Adoption Of State Statutes
6-7-2: Additional Rules And Regulations
6-7-3: Sales Of Lawful Fireworks
6-7-4: Temporary Sales Locations Prohibited
6-7-1: ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES:
The city hereby adopts by reference thereto the fireworks use act, 425 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 35, as amended, effective July 25, 2005, and the pyrotechnic
distributor and operator licensing act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227, as
amended, effective January 1, 2006, and the emergency rules implementing these
revised acts recently promulgated by the office of the state fire marshal
("OSFM"). In particular, the city, by adopting these emergency rules, is
specifically allowing pyrotechnic and consumer displays, as long as they comply
with these state statutes and emergency rules. (Ord. 1486, 5-23-2006)
6-7-2: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city reserves the right to adopt additional and more stringent reasonable
rules and regulations for the granting of permits for pyrotechnic and consumer
displays, and on an interim basis, the chief of police and public safety
officer are authorized to use the business license application and fee schedule
currently in use, with modifications and requests for such additional
information as they shall deem necessary in order to process the application
and make a decision regarding granting of such permits. An appropriate fee for
mandated training may also be charged at the discretion of the chief of police
and public safety officer. (Ord. 1486, 5-23-2006)
6-7-3: SALES OF LAWFUL FIREWORKS:
Pursuant to the fireworks use act, the only specifically excluded items from
the definition of "consumer fireworks", and therefore, the only lawfully sold
items in the nature of fireworks, are as follows: snake or glowworm pellets,
smoke devices, trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby traps",
"snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads", and "auto burglar alarms",
sparklers, toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or
plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of
explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when it is in place for the explosion. It
shall be unlawful to sell any other types of fireworks. (Ord. 1486, 5-23-2006)
6-7-4: TEMPORARY SALES LOCATIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or give away the lawfully sold items referred to
in section
6-7-3 of this chapter, and all other "fireworks" as defined in the statutes and
rules referred to in section
6-7-1 of this chapter, from a temporary business location within the city
limits or its one and one- half (11/2) mile limit jurisdictional area outside
of the city limits. "Temporary location" shall be defined as a business
location from which an applicant for a business license has operated for a
period of less than six (6) months. (Ord. 1486, 5-23-2006)
CHAPTER 8
HUMAN RIGHTS IN HOUSING
SECTION:
6-8-1: Policy
6-8-2: Definitions
6-8-3: Prohibited Acts
6-8-4: Penalties
6-8-1: POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its constitution
and other laws, in order that the safety and general welfare, peace and health
of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the city to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, gender, creed, physical or
mental disability, age, order of protection status, marital status, military
status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military or familial
status to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise control any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the city, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, gender, creed, physical or mental
disability, age, order of protection status, marital status, military status,
sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military or familial status
in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities
and/or services in connection therewith. (Ord. 1389, 12-10-2002; amd. 2010
Code)
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 1389, 12-
10-2002)
6-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings as described in this
section:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE: Any difference expressed in any way toward a person or persons in
the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or financing for housing
accommodation and/or real property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental,
lease or financing because of race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, gender, creed, physical or mental disability, age, order of
protection status, marital status, military status, sexual orientation,
unfavorable discharge from the military or familial status of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any person, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof who, for a fee or other valuable consideration, offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rent for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 1389, 12-10-2002;
amd. 2010 Code)
6-8-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, gender, creed, physical or mental
disability, age, order of protection status, marital status, military status,
sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military or familial status
with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any
housing accommodation and/or real property.
   B.   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other persons, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the city:
      1.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith.
      2.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
gender, creed, physical or mental disability, age, order of protection status,
marital status, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from
the military or familial status of any person.
      3.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property.
      4.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, gender, creed, physical or mental disability, age, order of
protection status, marital status, military status, sexual orientation,
unfavorable discharge from the military or familial status.
      5.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
gender, creed, physical or mental disability, age, order of protection status,
marital status, military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from
the military or familial status of persons in the neighborhood.
      6.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, gender, creed,
physical or mental disability, age, order of protection status, marital status,
military status, sexual orientation, unfavorable discharge from the military or
familial status in the area will or may result in the lowering of property
values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
      7.   For any owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, gender, creed, physical or mental disability, age, order of
protection status, marital status, military status, sexual orientation,
unfavorable discharge from the military or familial status of the proposed
buyer or tenant. (Ord. 1389, 12-10-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
6-8-4: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall in no way abrogate or
impair the right of the city to specifically enforce, by any legal means, any
of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1389, 12-10-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: State Vehicle Code Adopted
7-1-2: Definitions
7-1-3: Application To Bicycles And Animals
7-1-4: Exemptions From Provisions
7-1-5: Driver's License Or Permit
7-1-6: Accidents
7-1-1: STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100
et seq., as amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this title, and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this title if
proceeded hereunder. (2010 Code)
7-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Emergency vehicles of the city as are designated
or authorized by the city; police vehicles; vehicles of the fire department;
vehicles of a HAZMAT or technical rescue teams authorized by a county board
under section 5-1127 of the counties code 1 ; ambulances; vehicles of the
Illinois emergency management agency; mine rescue emergency response vehicles
of the department of natural resources; and vehicles of the Illinois department
of public health.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory within the city contiguous to and including a
street or highway when, within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway,
there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes, including, but
not limited to, hotels, banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public
buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one
side or three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides of the street or
highway.
CROSSWALK: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with such extension forming a right angle to the centerline of the highway.
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossings by lines or other markings on the surface.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, friction, concussion,
percussion or detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause such a
sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects or of
destroying life or limb.
FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry,
every implement of husbandry which is self-propelled, excluding "all-terrain
vehicles" and "off highway motorcycles" as defined by state statute.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by a Tagliabue or equivalent closed
cup test device.
IMPROVED HIGHWAY: A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or crushed
stone or gravel.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different roadways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
LANED ROADWAY: A street, the roadway of which is divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
METAL TIRE: Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires, but not operated upon
rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power, motorized wheelchairs,
low speed electric bicycles and low speed gas bicycles.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, other than
when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot, including a person with a physical, hearing or
visual disability.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots or
property abutting thereon.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the city, the county, any park district,
school district, the state or the United States government.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street or highway, improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" shall
refer to any such roadway separately but not to all roadways collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: A. Every motor vehicle, except as provided in subsection B of this
definition, owned or operated by or for any of the following entities for the
transportation of persons regularly enrolled as students in grade 12 or below
in connection with any activity of such entity:
      1.   Any public or private primary or secondary school;
      2.   Any primary or secondary school operated by a religious institution;
or
      3.   Any public, private or religious nursery school.
   B.   This definition shall not include the following:
      1.   A bus operated by a public utility, the city or common carrier
authorized to conduct local or interurban transportation of passengers when
such bus is not traveling a specific school bus route but is:
         a.   On a regularly scheduled route for the transportation of other
fare paying passengers;
         b.   Furnishing charter service for the transportation of groups on
field trips or other special trips or in connection with other special events;
or
         c.   Being used for shuttle service between attendance centers or
other educational facilities.
      2.   A motor vehicle of the first division.
      3.   A motor vehicle designed for the transportation of not less than
seven (7) nor more than sixteen (16) persons that is operated by or for a
public or private primary or secondary school, including any primary or
secondary school operated by a religious institution, for the purpose of
transporting not more than fifteen (15) students to and from interscholastic
athletic or other interscholastic or school sponsored activities.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
whether singly or together, while using any highway for the purpose of travel.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying passengers or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
TRUCK-TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of
one-fourth (1/4) mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device, in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway or requiring a certificate of title under
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101(d), except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and snowmobiles as
defined in the snowmobile registration and safety act 2 . For the purposes of
this title, unless otherwise prescribed, a "device" shall be considered to be a
"vehicle" until such time it either comes within the definition of a "junk
vehicle", as defined under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-134.1, or a
junking certificate is issued therefor.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign, shall mean the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left; provided, that when the roadway is clear, the vehicle may proceed into
the intersection. (1996 Code § 18-1; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-1127.
2 1. 625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.
7-1-3: APPLICATION TO BICYCLES AND ANIMALS:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application; however, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden
on sidewalks. (1996 Code § 18-5)
7-1-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this subsection, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title.
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation.
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property.
         d.   Disregard regulations governing the direction of movement or
turning in specified directions. (1996 Code § 18-6)
      3.   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion or visual signals meeting the
requirements of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-215. (1996 Code § 18-6;
amd. 2010 Code)
      4.   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others. (1996 Code § 18-6)
   B.   Street Maintenance Vehicles: The provisions of this title, with the
exception of subsections 7-3-14A and 7-3-15B, do not apply to persons, motor
vehicles and equipment while actually engaged in work upon a highway but apply
to such persons and vehicles when traveling to or from such work. (1996 Code §
18-7; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1-5: DRIVER'S LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   No person, except those expressly exempted by 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-102, shall drive any motor vehicle upon any street, highway or
other public way within the city unless such person has a valid license or
permit, or a restricted driving permit, issued under the provisions of the
Illinois vehicle code.
   B.   No person shall drive a motor vehicle unless he holds a valid license
or permit, or a restricted driving permit, issued under the provisions of 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-205, 5/6-206, or 5/6-113. Any person to whom a
license is issued under the provisions hereof must surrender to the secretary
of state all valid licenses or permits. No driver's license shall be issued to
any person who holds a valid foreign state license, identification card, or
permit unless such person first surrenders to the secretary of state any such
valid foreign state license, identification card, or permit. (1996 Code § 18-
14; amd. 2010 Code)
7-1-6: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Duty To Give Information And Render Aid:
      1.   The driver of any vehicle involved in a motor vehicle accident
resulting in injury to or death of any person or damage to any vehicle which is
driven or attended by any person shall give the driver's name, address,
registration number and owner of the vehicle the driver is operating and shall,
upon request and if available, exhibit such driver's license to the person
struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending any vehicle collided
with and shall render to any person injured in such accident reasonable
assistance, including the carrying or the making of arrangements for the
carrying of such person to a physician, surgeon or hospital for medical or
surgical treatment, if it is apparent that such treatment is necessary or if
such carrying is requested by the injured person.
      2.   If none of the persons entitled to information pursuant to this
subsection is in condition to receive and understand such information and no
police officer is present, such driver, after rendering reasonable assistance,
shall forthwith report such motor vehicle accident at the city police
department, disclosing the information required by this subsection.
   B.   Duty To Report Accident:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle that is in any manner involved in an
accident within the city, resulting in injury to or death of any person, or in
which damage to the property of any one person, including himself, in excess of
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) (or $500.00 if any of the
vehicles involved in the accident is subject to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/7-601 but is not covered by a liability insurance policy in accordance with
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-601) is sustained, shall, as soon as
possible but not later than ten (10) days after the accident, forward a written
report of the accident to the police department.
      2.   Whenever a school bus is involved in an accident in the city, caused
by a collision, a sudden stop or otherwise, resulting in any property damage,
personal injury or death and whenever an accident occurs within fifty feet
(50') of a school bus in the city resulting in personal injury to or the death
of any person while awaiting or preparing to board the bus or immediately after
exiting the bus, the driver shall, as soon as possible but not later than ten
(10) days after the accident, forward a written report to the department of
transportation. If a report is also required under subsection B1 of this
section, that report and the report required by this subsection B2 shall be
submitted on a single form.
      3.   The police department may require any driver, occupant or owner of a
vehicle involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in
this subsection or 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-410 to file supplemental
reports whenever the original report is insufficient in the opinion of the
secretary of state or the police department, and may require witnesses of the
accident to submit written reports to the police department. The report may
include photographs, charts, sketches, and graphs.
      4.   Should the police department learn through other reports of
accidents required by law of the occurrence of an accident reportable hereunder
and the driver, owner, or witness has not reported as required under subsection
B1, B2 or B3 of this section or 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-410 within
the time specified, the person is not relieved of the responsibility, and the
police department shall notify the person by first class mail directed to his
last known address of his legal obligation. However, the notification is not a
condition precedent to impose the penalty for failure to report. (1996 Code §
18-15; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Traffic Sign Committee; Existing Signs
7-2-2: Specifications; Compliance With State Regulations
7-2-3: Posting Signs
7-2-4: Obedience To Devices; Evading Prohibited
7-2-5: Traffic Control Signal Legend
7-2-6: Flashing Signals
7-2-7: Lane Control Signals
7-2-8: Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings
7-2-9: Interference With Devices
7-2-1: TRAFFIC SIGN COMMITTEE; EXISTING SIGNS:
The commissioner of streets and public improvements, the chief of police and
the superintendent of streets and public improvements shall be a committee of
three (3) for the purpose of deciding and making all decisions in regard to
placing traffic signs on alleys and streets in the city. All decisions on the
placing of traffic signs made by the committee established in this section
shall be subject only to the approval of a majority of the members of the city
council. All traffic signs erected have been approved by the city council.
(1996 Code § 18-29; amd. 2010 Code)
7-2-2: SPECIFICATIONS; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS:
All signs and signals established by direction of the city council shall
conform to the "Illinois state manual of uniform traffic control devices for
streets and highways". (1996 Code § 18-32)
7-2-3: POSTING SIGNS:
The chief of police or any other person so designated by the mayor or the city
council shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for all through
streets, one-way streets or alleys and stop intersections. (1996 Code § 18-30)
7-2-4: OBEDIENCE TO DEVICES; EVADING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Obedience Required: Every person shall obey the instructions of any
official traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with
this title, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to the
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this title.
(1996 Code § 18-31; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Evading Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the
roadway and travel across private property to avoid an official traffic control
device. (1996 Code § 18-31)
7-2-5: TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND:
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting different
colored lights successively one at a time, or with lighted green arrows, only
the following colors shall be used, and such terms and lights and lighted green
arrows shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as
follows:
   A.   Circular Green (Alone):
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn, but vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to other
vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such
signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   B.   Steady Yellow:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby warned
that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red indication
will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic may not enter
the intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal are thereby advised that
there is insufficient time to cross the roadway, and no pedestrian shall start
to cross.
   C.   Steady Red Indication:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone must stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of an intersection, or if none, then before entering the
intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication to proceed is shown
except as provided in subsections C2 and E1 of this section.
      2.   When a sign is in place permitting a turn, vehicular traffic facing
a steady red signal may cautiously enter the intersection to make the turn
indicated by such sign after stopping as required by subsection C1 of this
section. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to pedestrians
lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      3.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he
can do so safely without interfering with any vehicular traffic or unless a
separate "Walk" indication is shown.
   D.   Green Straight Through Arrow Alone:
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through,
but shall not turn right or left. Such vehicular traffic shall yield the right
of way to other vehicles and to pedestrians legally within the intersection at
the time such signal is exhibited.
      2.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
the appropriate marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   E.   Green Turn Arrow (With Circular Green, With Steady Yellow, With Steady
Red Or With Green Straight Through Arrow):
      1.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall comply with the meaning of
the circular green, steady yellow, steady red or green straight through arrow
indication as if it were shown alone; except, that such vehicular traffic may
cautiously enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the green
turn arrow. Vehicular traffic shall yield the right of way to pedestrians
lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection.
      2.   Pedestrians facing such signal shall comply with the meaning of the
circular green, steady yellow, steady red or straight through arrow indication
as if it were shown alone.
   F.   Signals At Other Than Intersections: In the event an official traffic
control signal or flashing red signal is erected and maintained at a place
other than an intersection, the provisions of this section and section
7-2-6 of this chapter shall be applicable except as to provisions which by
their nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a traffic
sign or a marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made.
(1996 Code § 18-33)
7-2-6: FLASHING SIGNALS:
Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in conjunction
with a traffic control device, it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic
as follows:
   A.   Flashing Red (Stop Signal): When a red lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   B.   Flashing Yellow (Caution Signal): When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution. (1996 Code § 18-34)
7-2-7: LANE CONTROL SIGNALS:
Whenever lane control signals are used in conjunction with official signs, they
shall have the following meanings:
   A.   Downward Pointing Green Arrow: A driver facing this indication is
permitted to drive in the lane over which the arrow signal is located;
otherwise, he shall obey all other traffic controls present and follow normal
safe driving practices.
   B.   Red X Symbol: A driver facing this indication shall not drive in the
lane over which the signal is located, and this indication shall modify
accordingly the meaning of all other traffic controls present; otherwise, he
shall obey all other traffic controls and follow normal safe driving practices.
   C.   Yellow X (Steady): A driver facing this indication should prepare to
vacate the lane over which the signal is located, in a safe manner to avoid, if
possible, occupying that lane when a steady red X is displayed. (1996 Code §
18-35)
7-2-8: UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS:
   A.   Imitation Traffic Signs; Obstructions: No person shall place, maintain
or display upon or in view of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal,
marking or device which purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an
official traffic control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or
display upon or in view of any highway any other sign which hides from view or
interferes with the movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic
control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   B.   Advertisements On Devices: No person may place or maintain nor may any
public authority permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is a
public nuisance, and any police officer is empowered to remove the same or
cause it to be removed without notice. (1996 Code § 18-36)
7-2-9: INTERFERENCE WITH DEVICES:
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription or shield, or insignia thereon or
any part thereof. (1996 Code § 18-37)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVING RULES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Traffic Not To Be Obstructed
7-3-2: Fire Apparatus
7-3-3: Riding Bicycles And Motorcycles
7-3-4: Right Of Way
7-3-5: Speed Restrictions
7-3-6: Turning Movements
7-3-7: Driver's Signals
7-3-8: One-Way Roadways And Rotary Traffic Islands
7-3-9: Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic
7-3-10: Passing, Overtaking Vehicles
7-3-11: Restrictions On Driving
7-3-12: Meeting, Passing School Buses
7-3-13: Funeral Processions
7-3-14: Reckless, Careless Driving
7-3-15: Intoxicating Substances
7-3-16: Miscellaneous Prohibitions
7-3-1: TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED:
No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon. (1996
Code § 18-65)
7-3-2: FIRE APPARATUS:
   A.   Following, Parking Near: The driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to
a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such
vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm. (1996 Code § 18-59)
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of the fire department when laid down on any street, private road or
driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the
fire department official in command. (1996 Code § 18-60)
7-3-3: RIDING BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES:
   A.   Passengers On Bicycles: It shall be unlawful for more than one person
to ride upon any bicycle. (1996 Code § 18-8)
   B.   Riding On Motorcycles:
      1.   The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only astride the permanent
and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, and the operator shall not permit
more than one other person to ride thereon nor shall such other person ride on
the motorcycle unless it is designed to carry two (2) people, in which event,
the passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle
if it is designed for two (2) persons, or astride another seat or saddle firmly
attached to the rear of the operator; however, any seat or saddle designed for
a passenger must be equipped with permanent handgrips, and in addition, the
motorcycle must be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger 1 . A
sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional persons may ride.
(1996 Code § 18-9)
      2.   No person shall operate any motorcycle with handlebars higher than
the height of the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
normal driving position astride that portion of the seat or saddle occupied by
the operator. (1996 Code § 18-205; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-6-13 of this title.
7-3-4: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Intersections Generally: When two (2) vehicles approach or enter an
intersection from different roadways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left must yield the right of way to the vehicle on the
right. The right of way rule declared in this subsection is modified at through
highways and otherwise as stated in this title. (1996 Code § 18-78)
   B.   Through Streets: The streets and parts of streets of the city
designated by ordinance as through streets are hereby declared to be through
streets, and the driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through
street and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have entered
the intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless otherwise directed by a traffic officer
or a traffic control signal. (1996 Code § 18-80)
   C.   Stop Or Yield Intersection:
      1.   The preferential right of way at an intersection may be indicated by
stop or yield signs.
      2.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but the driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
      3.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall, in obedience
to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and,
if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but
if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or
if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver
has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
      4.   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right
of way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield the right of way. (1996 Code § 18-81)
   D.   Turning Left: The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left
within an intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield
the right of way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which
is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard; but said driver, having so
yielded, may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs. (1996 Code § 18-
79)
   E.   Merging Traffic: At an intersection where traffic lanes are provided
for merging traffic, the driver of each vehicle on the converging roadway is
required to adjust his vehicular speed and lateral position so as to avoid a
collision with another vehicle. (1996 Code § 18-82)
   F.   Entering Highway From Private Road Or Driveway: The driver of a vehicle
about to enter or cross a highway from an alley, building, private road or
driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
highway to be entered. (1996 Code § 18-83)
   G.   Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicle:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of law or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal,
the driver of every other vehicle on the same roadway shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the highway, clear of any
intersection, and shall stop if possible and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      2.   This subsection shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway. (1996 Code § 18-84)
   H.   Stop Crosswalks: Where stop signs or flashing red signals are in place
at an intersection or flashing red signals are in place at a plainly marked
crosswalk between intersections, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk, and pedestrians within or entering the crosswalk at
either edge of the roadway shall have the right of way over vehicles so
stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right of way to pedestrians
entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection shall also yield
the right of way to pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
(1996 Code § 18-85)
   I.   Railroad Crossings:
      1.   Obedience To Signals: Whenever any person driving a vehicle
approaches a railroad grade crossing, such person must exercise due care and
caution as the existence of a railroad track across a highway is a warning of
danger, and under any of the circumstances stated in this subsection I1, the
driver shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than fifteen feet (15')
from the nearest rail of the railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
         a.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train.
         b.   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues
to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train.
         c.   A railroad train approaching a highway crossing emits a warning
signal, and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard.
         d.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
         e.   A railroad train is approaching so closely that an immediate
hazard is created. (1996 Code § 18-86)
      2.   Certain Vehicles Must Stop At All Crossings:
         a.   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or
of any school bus carrying any schoolchild, or of any vehicle carrying liquid
petroleum and liquid petroleum products, explosives, flammable or oxidizing
liquids and solids, flammable or poisonous compressed gases, volatile liquids
and solids which emit poisonous fumes, corrosive liquids and radioactive
materials as a cargo or part of a cargo, before crossing at grade any track of
a railroad, shall stop such vehicle within fifty feet (50') but not less than
fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and while so
stopped, shall listen and look in both directions along such track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, except as
hereinafter provided, and shall not proceed until he can do so safely.
         b.   After stopping as required in this subsection I2 of this section,
the driver shall proceed only in a gear not requiring a change of gears during
the crossing, and the driver shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
         c.   No stop need be made at any such crossing where a police officer
or a traffic control signal directs traffic to proceed. (1996 Code § 18-87)
7-3-5: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Speed Limits Established Generally; Compliance Required:
      1.   City Streets:
         a.   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not
under the jurisdiction of the state department of transportation or of the
county, in an urban district within the city at a speed in excess of thirty
(30) miles per hour, or in an alley at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles
per hour; provided, that if the mayor and the city council set other limits by
ordinance as provided by statute after an engineering or traffic survey, such
limits shall govern the rate of speed on the streets indicated in such
ordinance. (1996 Code § 18-55; amd. 2010 Code)
         b.   The chief of police shall post appropriate signs showing such
speed limits; provided further, that the speed of all vehicles of the second
division, as defined by statute, having two (2) or more solid tires, shall not
exceed ten (10) miles per hour. (1996 Code § 18-55)
      2.   State And County Streets: It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle
on any street or highway within the city under the jurisdiction of the state
department of transportation or of the county at a speed exceeding that
lawfully set for such street. (1996 Code § 18-55; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Duty Of Driver To Decrease Speed: The fact that the speed of a vehicle
does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver
from the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection,
when approaching and going around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when
traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with
respect to pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or highway
conditions, and speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding
with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in compliance with legal
requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care. (1996 Code § 18-55)
   C.   Passing Schools: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in
excess of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while
traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going
to and from school during school days when schoolchildren are present.
Appropriate signs shall be posted to indicate this restriction. (1996 Code §
18-56)
   D.   Use Of Radar To Enforce: The city shall enforce its speed restrictions
by the use of radar, and the police shall have the power to use radar to detect
violators of the city speed limits. (1996 Code § 18-57)
7-3-6: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections:
      1.   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in proper position upon the roadway as required by this section, or turn a
vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a
direct course or move right or left upon a roadway, unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety. (1996 Code § 18-97)
      2.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall
do so as follows:
         a.   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
         b.   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in
such direction upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left
turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
         c.   The city council may cause official traffic control devices to be
placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby require and direct that
a different course from that specified in this subsection be traveled by
vehicles turning at an intersection, and when such devices are so placed, no
driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as
directed and required by such devices. (1996 Code § 18-95)
   B.   When Signal Required: No person may turn any vehicle without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      1.   A signal of intention to turn right or left, when required, must be
given continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100')
traveled by the vehicle before turning within a business or residence district,
and such signal must be given continuously during not less than the last two
hundred feet (200') traveled by the vehicle before turning outside a business
or residence district.
      2.   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of his vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this title
to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is an
opportunity to give such a signal.
      3.   The electric turn signal device required by state law must be used
to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes or start from a parallel parked
position, but must not be flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled
vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or "do pass" signal to operators of other
vehicles approaching from the rear; however, such signal devices may be flashed
simultaneously on both sides of a motor vehicle to indicate the presence of a
vehicular traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, overtaking and
passing. (1996 Code § 18-97)
   C.   Turning On Curve Or Crest Of Hill: No vehicle shall be turned so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any curve or upon the approach to, or
near the crest of a grade, where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of
any other vehicle approaching from either direction within five hundred feet
(500'). (1996 Code § 18-96)
   D.   No U-Turns: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
make a U-turn at any place on or in the streets or alleys in the city. (1996
Code § 18-100)
   E.   No Left Turn: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to
turn left at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. Such
prohibition shall be indicated by appropriate signs. (1996 Code § 18-101)
7-3-7: DRIVER'S SIGNALS:
   A.   Hand And Arm Or Signal Device: Any stop or turn signal, when required
by this title, shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by an
electric turn signal device. (1996 Code § 18-98)
   B.   Method Of Giving Hand And Arm Signals: All signals herein required
given by hand and arm shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the
following manner, and such signals shall indicate as follows:
      1.   Left turn: Hand and arm extended horizontally.
      2.   Right turn: Hand and arm extended upward.
      3.   Stop or decrease of speed: Hand and arm extended downward. (1996
Code § 18-99)
7-3-8: ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The city council, with respect to highways
under its jurisdiction, may designate any highway, roadway, part of a roadway
or specific lanes upon which vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction
at all or such times as shall be indicated by official traffic control devices.
   B.   Duty To Drive In Appropriate Direction: Upon a roadway so designated
for one-way traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated
at all or such times as shall be indicated by official traffic control devices.
   C.   Rotary Traffic Islands: A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic
island must be driven only to the right of such island.
   D.   Specific One-Way Streets During School Hours: The city council hereby
designates the following streets to be one way during the hours of seven forty
five o'clock (7:45) A.M. to four fifteen o'clock (4:15) P.M. during the days
school is in session:
Giddings Avenue to be one-way north, between Exchange Street and Spruce Street.
Washington Avenue to be one-way north, between Spruce Street and Pine Street.
(1996 Code § 18-58)
7-3-9: DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC:
   A.   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for traffic, the following rules, in addition to all others
consistent herewith, shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be removed from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provides
for two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the same
direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance, or
in preparation for making a left turn or, where such center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that the vehicle
is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official traffic control
devices.
      3.   Official traffic control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
      4.   Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of the roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall
obey the directions of every such device. (1996 Code § 18-64)
   B.   Whenever any highway has been divided into two (2) or more roadways by
leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or a clearly indicated
dividing section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle
must be driven only upon the right hand roadway unless directed or permitted to
use another roadway by official traffic control devices or police officers. No
vehicle may be driven over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier
or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier, or dividing
section or space, or at a crossover or intersection as established by public
authority. (1996 Code § 18-58)
7-3-10: PASSING, OVERTAKING VEHICLES:
   A.   Duty To Keep To Right; Exceptions; Slow Moving Traffic:
      1.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven
upon the right half of the roadway except as follows:
         a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction under the rules governing such movement.
         b.   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
         c.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic
under the rules applicable thereon.
         d.   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
         e.   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is
the wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
      2.   Upon all roadways, any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway. (1996 Code § 18-109)
   B.   Meeting And Passing Vehicles: Drivers of vehicles proceeding in
opposite directions shall pass each other to the right, and upon roadways
having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction, each
driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main traveled
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible. (1996 Code § 18-110)
   C.   Overtaking And Passing Vehicles: The following rules shall govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions and special rules otherwise stated in this title:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle. In no event shall such movement be made by driving off the
pavement or the main traveled portion of the roadway.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
      3.   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not, in passing upon the
left of any vehicle proceeding in the same direction, pass upon the right of
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless there is an unobstructed
lane of traffic available to permit such passing maneuver safely. (1996 Code §
18-111)
   D.   Overtaking Vehicles On Right:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle with three (3) or more wheels may overtake
and pass upon the right of another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn.
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction.
         c.   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a two-wheeled vehicle may not pass upon the right of
any other vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the unobstructed
pavement to the right of the vehicle being passed is of a width of not less
than eight feet (8').
      3.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled
portion of the roadway. (1996 Code § 18-112)
   E.   Limitations On Overtaking On Left:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel
as soon as practicable, and in the event the passing movement involves the use
of a lane authorized for vehicles approaching from the opposite direction,
before coming within two hundred feet (200') of any vehicle approaching from
the opposite direction.
      2.   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within a sufficient distance as
to create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the
opposite direction.
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing. (1996 Code § 18-113)
         c.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive line also directs traffic as declared in the sign
manual adopted by the state department of transportation. (1996 Code § 18-113;
amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   The limitations in subsections E2a and E2b of this section shall not
apply upon a one-way street or upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction
when such movement can be made with safety. (1996 Code § 18-113)
7-3-11: RESTRICTIONS ON DRIVING:
   A.   Driving Upon Sidewalk: No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway, or for routine maintenance, utility or emergency service, or for
special delivery or pick up involving goods or customer services. (1996 Code §
18-61)
   B.   Driving Through Safety Zone: No vehicle shall at any time be driven
through or within a safety zone. (1996 Code § 18-62)
   C.   Entering And Leaving Limited Access Roadways: No person shall drive a
vehicle onto or from any controlled or limited access roadway except at such
entrances and exits as are established by public authority. (1996 Code § 18-63)
   D.   Backing:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back said vehicle unless such
movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interference with other
traffic.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle shall not back said vehicle on any
controlled access highway. (1996 Code § 18-67)
7-3-12: MEETING, PASSING SCHOOL BUSES:
   A.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway, upon meeting or overtaking,
from either direction, any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any schoolchildren, shall stop the vehicle
before reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus a
visual signal as required by state law, and the driver shall not proceed until
the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the vehicle is signaled by the
school bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated.
(1996 Code § 18-70)
   B.   Every school bus, when used for the transportation of schoolchildren,
must comply with the color requirements established by the state and shall bear
upon the front and rear thereof plainly visible signs containing the words
"SCHOOL BUS" in letters not less than eight inches (8") in height, and in
addition, shall be equipped with visual signals meeting the requirements of
state law, which shall be actuated by the driver of the school bus immediately
preceding the point at which the school bus stops for the purpose of loading or
discharging passengers. Such visual signals shall be actuated by the driver
continuously during not less than the last one hundred feet (100') traveled by
the school bus within a business or residential district; except, that outside
a business or residential district, such visual signals shall be given
continuously during not less than the last two hundred feet (200') traveled by
the school bus. Such visual signals must remain actuated when children are
loading or unloading from a school bus which is stopped on a roadway. At no
other time shall such visual signals be actuated. (1996 Code § 18-70; amd. 2010
Code)
   C.   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway of which the roadways for
traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which
is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic need not stop his vehicle
upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway, and need
not stop his vehicle when driving upon a controlled access highway when a
school bus is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved
part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to
cross such controlled access highway.
   D.   When a school bus is being operated upon a highway for purposes other
than the actual transportation of children, either to or from school or in
connection with any school activity, all signs thereon indicating "SCHOOL BUS"
shall be covered or concealed. (1996 Code § 18-70)
7-3-13: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Right Of Way: Funeral processions have the right of way at
intersections when vehicles comprising such procession have their headlights
lighted, subject to the following conditions and exceptions:
      1.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an audible
or visible signal.
      2.   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the right
of way when directed to do so by a traffic officer.
      3.   The operator of the lead vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic control signals, but when the lead vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal, and the lead
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
   B.   Vehicles Not In Funeral Procession:
      1.   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
      2.   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not
form a procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose
of securing the right of way granted by this section to funeral processions.
      3.   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake
and pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
   C.   Funeral Processions To Be Identified: The lead vehicle in the funeral
procession may be equipped with a flashing amber light which may be used only
when such vehicle is used as a lead vehicle in such procession. Vehicles
comprising a funeral procession may utilize funeral pennants or flags or
windshield stickers to identify the individual vehicles in such a procession.
(1996 Code § 18-66)
7-3-14: RECKLESS, CARELESS DRIVING:
   A.   Reckless Driving: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle with a wilful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property, and any person who does so shall be guilty of reckless driving. (1996
Code § 18-53)
   B.   Careless Driving:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to accelerate
such vehicle in a manner which is careless or excessive. For the purpose of
this section, "careless and excessive" shall be defined as follows:
         a.   Causing tires to break traction, thus emitting a squealing noise.
         b.   Causing the rear of such vehicle to slide on the pavement in a
side to side motion.
         c.   Accelerating such vehicle into tailgating position behind another
vehicle.
         d.   Accelerating such vehicle in a manner which causes the front of
the vehicle to bounce, thus reducing the driver's control of the vehicle.
      2.   This subsection shall in no way apply to acceleration necessary to
prevent or avoid a collision with another motor vehicle or pedestrian. (1996
Code § 18-54)
7-3-15: INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Open Containers: No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor in or upon or about any motor vehicle, except in the original
package and with the seal unbroken, on any public street, alley or thoroughfare
in the city. (1996 Code § 18-13)
   B.   Driving Under Influence: No person shall drive or be in actual physical
control of any vehicle within the city under the conditions set out in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501. (1996 Code § 18-52; amd. 2010 Code)
7-3-16: MISCELLANEOUS PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Riding On Outside Of Vehicle: It shall be unlawful for any person to
ride upon the outside of any vehicle. (1996 Code § 18-10)
   B.   Toy Vehicles On Roadways: It shall be unlawful for any person upon
skates, a coaster, sled or other toy vehicle to go upon any roadway other than
at a crosswalk. (1996 Code § 18-11)
   C.   Clinging To Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person on any street
riding a bicycle, motorcycle or any toy vehicle to cling to or to attach
himself or his vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon. (1996 Code § 18-
12)
CHAPTER 4
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Manner Of Parking
7-4-2: No Parking Places
7-4-3: Time Limit Parking
7-4-4: Parking Prohibitions And Restrictions On Specific Streets
7-4-5: General Parking Restrictions
7-4-6: Parking Zones And Lots
7-4-7: Passenger Loading Zones
7-4-8: Signs Posted
7-4-1: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel And Angle Parking: No vehicle shall be parked with the left
side of the vehicle next to the curb or edge of the roadway, except on one-way
streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street
other than parallel with the curbway, and with the two (2) right wheels of the
vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly established curb line or
edge of the roadway; except, that upon the public square and those streets that
have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to
the curb indicated by such marks.
   B.   One-Way Streets: On one-way streets where parking is permitted on the
left side of the street, vehicles shall be parked parallel with the curb or
edge of the roadway with the two (2) left wheels of the vehicle within twelve
inches (12") of the regularly established curb line or edge of the roadway.
(1996 Code § 18-153)
   C.   Stop Engine; Remove Key; Parking On Grade: No person driving or in
charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without first
stopping the engine and removing the ignition key, and when standing upon any
perceptible grade, without effectively setting the brake and turning the front
wheels to the curb or side of the highway. (1996 Code § 18-152)
   D.   Starting Parked Vehicle: No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
reasonable safety. (1996 Code § 18-156)
7-4-2: NO PARKING PLACES:
No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device, in any of the following places:
   A.   On a sidewalk.
   B.   In front of a public or private driveway, or within five feet (5') of
the intersection of the edges of the driveway and the street.
   C.   Within an intersection.
   D.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
   E.   On a crosswalk.
   F.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
   G.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway.
   H.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length by signs or markings is indicated thereon.
   I.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
   J.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station,
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
   K.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
parking would obstruct traffic.
   L.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street.
   M.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel.
   N.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (1996 Code § 18-
151)
   O.   On the unpaved or grassy areas located within the street rights of way,
commonly referred to as the "boulevards". (Ord. 1559, 11-27-2010)
7-4-3: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
Between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on
Sundays and holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a longer
consecutive period of time than that designated for the location and posted on
signs. (1996 Code § 18-157)
7-4-4: PARKING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS ON SPECIFIC STREETS:
   A.   Parking Prohibited At All Times: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to park any motor vehicle at any time within the areas
indicated below:
Street Limits
Street                         Limits
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
Adams Street                   street from State Route 67 east to McBride
                               Street
                               Unpaved boulevards on both sides of the street
Barr Avenue                    from South Liberty Street to South Lafayette
                               Street
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
East Carpenter Street          street from Maple Street east to the railroad
                               right of way
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
East Exchange                  street from North Giddings Avenue east to the
                               railroad right of way
FAP Route 310 (U.S. Route 67)  Both sides from just south of Northmoor Drive
                               northerly to the north city limits
FAP Route 325 (State Route 16) Both sides from 500 feet west to 500 feet east
                               of Maple Summit Road
Fairgrounds Street             Both sides from June Street to Cemetery Street
Goodrich Street                Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
                               street
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
Harbert Street                 street from State Route 16 north to East Arch
                               Street
                               Both sides from County Road to Fairgrounds
June Street                    Street, except for east side of street between
                               East Carpenter Street and East Spruce Street
                               Unpaved rights of way (boulevards) on both sides
Lafayette Street               of the street from Exchange Street to Hickory
                               Street
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
North and South Jefferson      street from Goodrich Street north to East Spruce
                               Street
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
South Lafayette Street         street from West Prairie Street to State Route
                               16
South Liberty Street           Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
                               street from West Pearl to State Route 16
Maple Avenue                   Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
                               street
Maple Summit Road              East side from State Route 16 south 500 feet
                              West side from State Route 16 south 145 feet
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
Morean Street                  street from East Carpenter Street to East
                               Prairie Street
East Prairie Street            Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
                               street from State Route 67 east to McGill Street
West Prairie Street            Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
                               street
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
East Spruce Street             street from State Route 67 east to North
                               Giddings Avenue
                               Both sides from the intersection of Route 16
                               south to the city limits. Parking shall be
State Route 67                 allowed at reasonable times for church functions
                               on the west side from a point 45 feet south of
                               the south crosswalk on Route 67 to a point 255
                               feet south of said crosswalk
                               Unpaved areas of boulevards on both sides of the
South Washington Avenue        street from West Prairie Street south to Barr
                               Avenue
 
   B.   Parallel Parking Only: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to park any motor vehicle in any manner other than parallel to the
curb within the area indicated below:
 
Street                        Limits
FAP Route 310 (U.S. Route 67) Both sides from Pine Street northerly to just
                              south of Northmoor Drive
 
   C.   School Areas: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to park any motor vehicle between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on school days within the areas indicated below:
 
Street              Limits
Edgewood Street     From East Woodlawn Avenue north to Reddish Road
Lot Street          From State Route 67 west to North Liberty Street
Oak Street          From State Route 67 west to North Liberty Street
North Warren Street From Lott Street north to Woodlawn Avenue
Woodlawn Avenue     From State Route 67 west to North Liberty Street
 
   D.   School Area: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation
to park any motor vehicle between the hours of seven thirty o’clock (7:30) A.M.
and four o’clock (4:00) P.M. on school days within the area indicated below:
 
Street               Limits
                     East Side for 150 feet from 540 feet north of the
South Liberty Street centerline of West County Road to 690 feet north of the
                     centerline of West County Road.
 
   E.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1231, 5-15-1998;
amd. Ord. 1361, 3-5-2002; Ord. 1370, 6-25-2002; 2010 Code; Ord. 1559, 11-27-
2010; Ord. 1814, 9-3-2024)
7-4-5: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Sale Of Vehicle; Sales Of Merchandise: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to park
any vehicle upon any business street from which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(1996 Code § 18-154)
   B.   Nighttime Parking: No person, except physicians on emergency calls,
shall park any vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than thirty
(30) minutes between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) A.M. of any day. (1996 Code § 18-158)
   C.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property. (1996 Code § 18-159)
7-4-6: PARKING ZONES AND LOTS:
   A.   Zones Established: Parking zones are hereby established by the city
council in all locations where there are existing parking meters and on the
city owned lots.
   B.   Time Restrictions:
      1.   There is hereby established a twenty four (24) hour time limit on
all city lots except the city owned lot behind the Masonic building on West
Pearl Street, which is to have an established eight (8) hour time limit for
parking.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle or to permit a
vehicle to remain parked in any parking zone between the hours of nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays and Saturdays, and between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on Fridays, except holidays, for a period longer than
two (2) hours at any one time; and in front of the post office, the time limit
is fifteen (15) minutes. The term "holiday", as used in this subsection B2,
shall mean the days set aside and observed in the state as New Year's Day,
Presidents' Day, Memorial Day, the Fourth Of July, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day
and Christmas Day.
      3.   Notwithstanding any other provision in this Chapter 4, Parking
Regulations, parking on the City Center parking lot at 120 E. Pearl Street
between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. and five o’clock (5:00) p.m.,
Monday through Friday, shall have a three (3) hour time limit.
   C.   Parking On Posted Lots:
      1.   Prohibited Parking; Sign Requirements: It shall be unlawful to park
a motor vehicle on any parking lot within the city if said lot has been posted
by the owner or occupant of such lot. Said lot shall be considered posted if it
contains at least one sign stating either that there shall be no trespassing,
no unauthorized parking on the lot, no unauthorized use of the lot, or no
parking on the lot. The sign must be twenty four inches by twenty four inches
(24" x 24") and must be displayed in a prominent place which can be viewed
easily from wherever the motor vehicle is parked. Such parking shall be
considered illegal only when any business property connected with said lot is
closed to business, or when such parking interferes with normal business during
normal business hours.
      2.   Enforcement:
         a.   Any person violating this subsection shall be subject to a fine
in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each violation.
         b.   Any vehicle parking in a no parking area on such lot shall be
subject to being towed away at the owner's expense.
         c.   Payments under this subsection may be made at the police station,
and a receipt shall be issued for all monies so received, and such monies shall
be promptly turned over to the city clerk to be used in the manner provided for
the disposition of fines for traffic violations.
   D.   Chalking Tires: The city police department will mark all tires on cars
parked in parking zones. (1996 Code §§ 18-170 - 18-173; amd. 2010 Code; Ord.
1262, 6-1-1999; Ord. 1773, 12-14-2021)
7-4-7: PASSENGER LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Use Of Passenger Loading Zones: It shall be unlawful for the driver of
a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3)
minutes, in any place designated by the mayor and city council as a loading
zone and marked as such, or in any of the following designated places:
      1.   At any place, not to exceed seventy five feet (75'), along the curbs
before the entrance to any hospital or hotel at any time.
      2.   At any place, not to exceed seventy five feet (75'), along the curb
before the entrance to a public building between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on Sunday.
      3.   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open. (1996 Code § 18-155)
   B.   Use Of Taxicab And Bus Stands: No vehicle, other than a licensed
taxicab, shall be parked in any area designated by ordinance as a cab stand;
and no vehicle, other than a bus, shall be parked in a place so designated as a
bus loading zone. (1996 Code § 18-160)
7-4-8: SIGNS POSTED:
The chief of police or any other person authorized by the mayor and city
council shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions, and the Illinois
department of transportation is requested to erect no parking signs on both
sides of Highway 67 between Route 16 and the south city limits. (1996 Code §
18-150; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Obedience To And Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
7-5-2: Right Of Way
7-5-3: Standing On Sidewalks And In Roadways
7-5-4: Use Of Crosswalks
7-5-5: Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks
7-5-6: Walking On Roadways
7-5-7: Pedestrians With Disabilities
7-5-1: OBEDIENCE TO AND APPLICABILITY OF TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Obedience To Traffic Control Devices: A pedestrian shall obey the
instructions of any official traffic control device specifically applicable to
him, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   B.   Application Of Provisions: Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic and
pedestrian control signals provided in this title, but at all other places,
pedestrians shall be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the
restrictions stated in this chapter. (1996 Code § 18-126)
7-5-2: RIGHT OF WAY:
   A.   Crosswalks:
      1.   When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
      2.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
      3.   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections,
pedestrians shall have the right of way over drivers of vehicles. (1996 Code §
18-127)
   B.   Sidewalks: The driver of a vehicle emerging from or entering an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian approaching on any sidewalk or any sidewalk area extending across
such alley, building entrance, road or driveway. (1996 Code § 18-135)
7-5-3: STANDING ON SIDEWALKS AND IN ROADWAYS:
   A.   Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any
sidewalk except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb
line, if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians. (1996 Code § 18-128)
   B.   Roadways:
      1.   Generally: No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than
in a safety zone if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
      2.   Soliciting:
         a.   No person shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting
employment, business or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle. (1996
Code § 18-131)
         b.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting
a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
         c.   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stand
on or in the proximity of a roadway for the purpose of soliciting employment,
business or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
         d.   No person shall stand on or in the proximity of a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a street or highway. (1996 Code § 18-134)
7-5-4: USE OF CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Use Required:
      1.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
(1996 Code § 18-129)
      2.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk, if
one is available.
      3.   Crosswalks must be used while in a school zone. (1996 Code § 18-129;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Use Right Half: Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the
right half of crosswalks. (1996 Code § 18-132)
7-5-5: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
   A.   1. Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right
of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection, every
driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any
pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when
necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any
obviously confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway. (1996 Code § 18-130)
   B.   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the most
direct route to the opposite curbing. (1996 Code § 18-133)
7-5-6: WALKING ON ROADWAYS:
   A.   Any person walking along and upon any roadway shall keep on the left of
the roadway or on the left shoulder thereof, and upon meeting a vehicle, shall
step off to the left.
   B.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway except at a crosswalk. (1996 Code §
18-136)
   C.   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug to a
degree which renders himself a hazard shall not walk or be upon a highway
except on a sidewalk. (1996 Code § 18-136; amd. 2010 Code)
7-5-7: PEDESTRIANS WITH DISABILITIES:
The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian with
clearly visible disabilities. (1996 Code § 18-137; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-6-1: Obstruction To Driver's View; Mirror Required
7-6-2: Lights
7-6-3: Signal Lamps And Devices
7-6-4: Horns And Warning Devices
7-6-5: Tires; Nonskid Devices
7-6-6: Brakes
7-6-7: Unnecessary Noise; Noise Prevention
7-6-8: Gas And Smoke Emissions
7-6-9: Width, Length And Height Of Vehicles And Loads
7-6-10: Weight Of Vehicles; Limited Load Streets
7-6-11: Spilling Loads
7-6-12: Bicycle Equipment
7-6-13: Motorcycle Equipment
7-6-1: OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER'S VIEW; MIRROR REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle with the
view of the roadway to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror
so attached as to give him a view of the roadway behind him. (1996 Code § 18-
190)
7-6-2: LIGHTS:
   A.   General Requirements: It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any
street any vehicle not equipped with adequate lights conforming to the
requirements of state law; provided, that vehicles may be parked at nighttime
without lights on any street or portion thereof designated by ordinance as a
place where vehicles may so park at nighttime. (1996 Code § 18-191)
   B.   Firefighter's Vehicle: Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a
firefighter may be equipped with not to exceed two (2) lamps which shall emit a
blue light without glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such
vehicle. A flashing blue light may be used only when such firefighter is
responding to a fire call. (1996 Code § 18-193)
7-6-3: SIGNAL LAMPS AND DEVICES:
   A.   Stop Lamps: Every vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate operated in the city, shall be equipped with a stop lamp or lamps
on the rear of the vehicle which shall display a red or amber light visible
from a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500') to the rear in normal
sunlight and which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot)
brake and which may, but need not, be incorporated with other rear lamps.
During times when lighted lamps are not required, an antique vehicle may be
equipped with a stop lamp or lamps on the rear of such vehicle of the same type
originally installed by the manufacturer as original equipment in working
order; however, at all other times, such antique vehicle must be equipped with
stop lamps meeting the requirements of this section.
   B.   Electric Turn Signals:
      1.   Every motor vehicle, other than an antique vehicle displaying an
antique plate, shall be equipped with an electric turn signal device which
shall indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the right or to the left
in the form of flashing lights located at and showing to the front and rear of
the vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which the turn is to be made. The
lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a white or
amber light, or any shade of light between white and amber. The lamps showing
to the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally
as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a red or amber light. An antique
vehicle shall be equipped with a turn signal device of the same type originally
installed by the manufacturer as original equipment and in working order.
      2.   Every trailer and semitrailer shall be equipped with an electric
turn signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power
unit to turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red or amber
lights located at the rear of the vehicle on the side toward which the turn is
to be made and mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable.
      3.   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than
three hundred feet (300') in normal sunlight.
      4.   Motorcycles and motor driven cycles need not be equipped with
electric turn signals. Antique vehicles need not be equipped with turn signals
unless such were installed by the manufacturer as original equipment. (1996
Code § 18-192)
7-6-4: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
   A.   Horn:
      1.   Every motor vehicle, when operated upon a highway, shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance of not less than two hundred feet (200'), but
no horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound
or whistle.
      2.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall, when reasonably necessary to
ensure safe operation, give audible warning with his horn but shall not
otherwise use such horn when upon a highway.
   B.   Warning Devices:
      1.   No vehicle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
vehicle any siren, whistle or bell, except as otherwise permitted in this
subsection.
      2.   Any authorized emergency vehicle may be equipped with a siren,
whistle or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from
a distance of not less than five hundred feet (500'), but such siren, whistle
or bell shall not be used except when such vehicle is operated in response to
an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law, in which latter event, the driver of such vehicle shall
sound said siren, whistle or bell when necessary to warn pedestrians and other
drivers of the approach thereof.
      3.   No bicycle shall be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a
bicycle any siren or whistle. (1996 Code § 18-195)
7-6-5: TIRES; NONSKID DEVICES:
   A.   Tires:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to operate upon any improved street a motor
vehicle equipped with tires contrary to the provisions of state law.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street which has been oil
treated a motor vehicle equipped with tires contrary to the provisions of state
law. (1996 Code § 18-200)
   B.   Nonskid Devices: It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street any
motor vehicle equipped with any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or
nonflexible portion thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
(1996 Code § 18-202)
7-6-6: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless the
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by state law, or to operate any vehicle which is so loaded that the
operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating the brakes of
such vehicle. (1996 Code § 18-201)
7-6-7: UNNECESSARY NOISE; NOISE PREVENTION:
   A.   Unnecessary Noise Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle
which makes an unusually loud or unnecessary noise. (1996 Code § 18-194)
   B.   Mufflers, Prevention Of Noise:
      1.   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon the highways of the city
shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust system in
constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive or unusual
noise.
      2.   No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cutout,
bypass or similar device.
      3.   No person shall modify the exhaust system of a motor vehicle in a
manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such vehicle above that
emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle, and such original
muffler shall comply with all the requirements of this subsection. (1996 Code §
18-196)
7-6-8: GAS AND SMOKE EMISSIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or so as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (1996 Code § 18-197)
7-6-9: WIDTH, LENGTH AND HEIGHT OF VEHICLES AND LOADS:
   A.   The maximum width, length and height of any vehicle and its load shall
not exceed the limits expressed in state law.
   B.   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the fenders on the right
side thereof.
   C.   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than
two (2) units, but such limitation shall not apply to vehicles operated in the
daytime when transporting pipes, poles, machinery and other objects which
cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such vehicles operated at nighttime by a
public utility when engaged in emergency repair work; but such loads carried at
night shall be clearly marked with sufficient lights to show the full
dimensions of the load.
   D.   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet (3')
in front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle. (1996 Code § 18-198)
7-6-10: WEIGHT OF VEHICLES; LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
   A.   Weight Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any
motor vehicle with a weight, including load, in excess of that permitted by
state law for driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a
manner not conforming to such law, or in violation of special weight limits
provided for by ordinance and signs posted. (1996 Code § 18-203)
   B.   Limited Load Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to drive any trucks having a weight in excess
of sixteen thousand (16,000) pounds, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only, on any street in a residential area in
the city. (1996 Code § 18-68)
      2.   Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is limited by
ordinance, it shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight
on such street, except for the purpose of making a delivery or picking up a
load, in which case, the vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than
the minimum distance necessary for such purpose. (1996 Code § 18-69)
7-6-11: SPILLING LOADS 1 :
No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops upon
any street or alley in the city. (1996 Code § 18-199)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsections 5-2-3B and 5-2-4F1 of this code.
7-6-12: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights And Reflectors: Every bicycle, when in use during the period
when lighted lamps are required under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1507,
shall be equipped on the front with a lamp which shall be emitting a white
light visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front
and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by the secretary of
state. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the rear may be used in addition to a red reflector.
   B.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
   C.   Bell: No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a
bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at
least one hundred feet (100'); except, that a bicycle shall not be equipped
with nor shall any person use any siren or whistle upon a bicycle.
   D.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: The parent of any child and the
guardian of any ward shall not authorize or knowingly permit any such child or
ward to violate any provision of this chapter. (1996 Code § 18-204)
7-6-13: MOTORCYCLE EQUIPMENT:
Any motorcycle carrying a passenger, other than in a sidecar or enclosed cab,
shall be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger 1 . (1996 Code
§ 18-205; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 7-3-3B1 of this title.
CHAPTER 7
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Directing Traffic; Obedience Required
7-7-2: Parking Violations
7-7-3: Tickets
7-7-4: Arrests; Bail Posted
7-7-5: Penalty
7-7-1: DIRECTING TRAFFIC; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Authority To Direct Traffic; Unauthorized Directing: Members of the
police department and special police assigned to traffic duty are hereby
authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this
title or, in emergencies, as the public safety or convenience may require.
Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized
by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (1996 Code § 18-2)
   B.   Obedience To Direction: No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to
comply with any lawful order or direction of any police officer invested by law
with the authority to direct, control or regulate traffic. (1996 Code § 18-3)
   C.   Directing Traffic At Fires: The fire department officer in command, or
any firefighter designated by him, may exercise the powers and authority of a
police officer in directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the fire
department has responded to an emergency call for so long as the fire
department equipment is on the scene and in the absence of or in assisting the
police. (1996 Code § 18-4)
7-7-2: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Procedure:
      1.   Fines: Any person in violation of a provision of this title
prohibiting parking of vehicles in a designated area or restricting the length
of time vehicles may be parked in such areas may settle and compromise the
violation by paying to the city the sum of five dollars ($5.00) within forty
eight (48) hours of the time such alleged offense was committed. If paid after
forty eight (48) hours, the fine will be eight dollars ($8.00). (Ord. 1262, 6-
1-1999)
      2.   Towing Vehicle: Any vehicle parked in a no parking area shall be
subject to being towed away at the owner's expense.
      3.   Payment To Police Department; Disposition Of Funds: Payments under
subsection A1 of this section may be made at the police station; and a receipt
shall be issued for all monies so received; and such monies shall be promptly
turned over to the treasurer, to be used in the manner provided for the
disposition of fines for traffic violations. (1996 Code § 18-161)
      4.   Subsection A1 Fines Not Applicable To Certain Parking Violations:
The fines in subsection A1 of this section shall not apply to a person parking
a vehicle so as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where police or
fire department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so
as to block an emergency entrance in a hospital; nor shall the fines in
subsection A1 of this section apply to any person charged with parking a
vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or parking
in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic
only, nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked at the
request of any member of the police department. Fines and penalties as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code shall apply to the violations in this subsection A4. (1996
Code § 18-161; amd. 2010 Code)
      5.   Parking In Spaces For Persons With Disabilities: Any person in
violation of this subsection providing for parking of vehicles in an area
designated and marked as handicapped parking only, may settle and compromise
the violation by paying to the city the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
If such persons wish to contest the validity of the ordinance violation, they
can apply for relief to the circuit court or by administrative adjudication as
prescribed in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3. (Ord. 1339, 5-15-2001)
   B.   Presumption Of Liability For Violations:
      1.   The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered
in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person
was in control of the automobile at the time of such parking. (1996 Code § 18-
162)
      2.   In all cases of parking violations, the registered owner of the
vehicle at the time of the violation, as well as the vehicle itself and the
actual operator thereof, shall be presumed to be a violator. (1996 Code § 18-
168)
   C.   Impoundment And Redemption Of Illegally Parked Vehicles:
      1.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: A vehicle occupying any portion of any
street or alley in violation of the terms of this title is hereby declared to
be a nuisance which shall be abated by any police officer by impounding such
vehicle, either by placing a traffic violation notice thereon which shall
indicate the nature of the violation or by placing such notice thereon and
removing and conveying such vehicle to a vehicle pound. (1996 Code § 18-163)
      2.   Vehicle Pound: A vehicle pound is hereby declared to be any suitable
place designated by the police department as a vehicle pound. (1996 Code § 18-
164)
      3.   Removal From Impoundment; Payment Of Fees And Costs: The owner or
authorized operator of such impounded vehicle may have the vehicle removed from
impoundment by paying the penalties imposed by this title for such violation as
an impounding fee, plus all costs and expenses that have been incurred for the
towage and storage of such vehicle, plus all impounding fees, towage and
storage charges which have theretofore accrued against such vehicle during the
time of his ownership thereof. (1996 Code § 18-165)
      4.   Effect Of Transfer Of Vehicle At Time Of Seizure: If, at the time of
seizure, a vehicle has been sold to a bona fide purchaser and transfer of title
has been duly made, such new owner may have the car released forthwith by
showing his new certificate of title to the proper officers. (1996 Code § 18-
166)
      5.   Sale Of Vehicle After Seizure: Any vehicle impounded by seizure
under authority of this title may, after one month from date of seizure, be
sold by the department of public affairs, either at a private or public sale,
to the highest bidder, after first giving the owner of the vehicle, as is shown
to be in the office of the secretary of state of the state in which the vehicle
is licensed on the day of seizure, a notice of seizure and proposed sale, in
writing, delivered in person or sent by U.S. registered mail, addressed to such
person at the owner's place of business or residence as shown in the secretary
of state's office. (1996 Code § 18-167)
   D.   Additional Remedies By Complaint Before Judge: In all cases of parking
violations, either the registered owner or the operator of such vehicle may be
proceeded against by complaint before any judge of Jersey County, Illinois,
which shall be in addition to any other remedy provided in this section. (1996
Code § 18-169)
7-7-3: TICKETS:
For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving, a police
officer, after making a note of the license number of the vehicle and the name
of the person violating a provision of this title where possible, may issue a
traffic violation ticket notifying the person to appear in court at the time
designated for hearing the case. The officer may sign a complaint for the
issuance of a warrant if such person does not appear at the time and place so
specified. (1996 Code § 18-39)
7-7-4: ARRESTS; BAIL POSTED:
Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this title shall be
released upon proper bail being furnished as required by statute. The police
officer in command at the police station may, in the absence of a judge,
prescribe the amount of bail or bond in each instance; however, any arrested
person may, at his own request, have the amount of bond set by a judge as
provided by statute. (1996 Code § 18-38; amd. 2010 Code)
7-7-5: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this title, any person violating any
provision of this title shall be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1996 Code §§ 18-16, 18-40)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Grades Of Public Ways
8-1-2: Sidewalk Repair Or Replacement
8-1-3: Culverts
8-1-4: Entrances To Private Property
8-1-5: Parking Areas On Rights Of Way; Concrete, Paved Pads
8-1-6: Obstructions And Encroachments
8-1-7: Water Drainage Over Sidewalks Prohibited
8-1-8: Removing Grade Or Corner Stakes Prohibited
8-1-9: Chipping Tree Limbs
8-1-1: GRADES OF PUBLIC WAYS:
The grades of all streets, alleys and sidewalks in the city shall be as
established from time to time by, or at the direction of, the city council. All
streets, sidewalks and alleys shall be so constructed as to conform with all
grades established pursuant to this section and shall be in accordance with the
Illinois department of transportation "Standard Specifications For Highway And
Bridge Construction", as amended. (1996 Code § 25-6; amd. 2010 Code)
8-1-2: SIDEWALK REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT:
   A.   Application To Repair Or Replace: Any property owner whose sidewalk in
front of his property needs repairing or replacing shall make written
application therefor to the city clerk.
   B.   Inspection To Determine Necessity: Upon the filing of the application
required by subsection A of this section, a city employee shall inspect the
sidewalk and determine the need for repair or replacement. (1996 Code § 25-1)
   C.   Notice To Repair Or Replace: The property owner who filed the
application for sidewalk repair or replacement pursuant to subsection A of this
section shall be notified as to when his sidewalk is to be repaired or
replaced. (1996 Code § 25-1; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   City Provide Labor; Expenditure Restrictions: The city shall furnish
the necessary labor to repair or replace a sidewalk; however, the expenditure
of the city for labor in any one year cannot exceed the amount appropriated for
said repair and replacement of sidewalks. (1996 Code § 25-1)
8-1-3: CULVERTS:
   A.   Culverts Required; Specifications: It shall be unlawful for any person
to lay or install any walkway or driveway from private property to the traveled
portion of the street without first using a culvert constructed of reinforced
concrete, meeting the requirements of AASHTO-M170; precoated galvanized
corrugated steel pipe meeting the requirements of AASHTO-M245 and M246, sheet
coated with polymer coating thickness of 0.010 inch (0.25 mm) on both surfaces;
galvanized corrugated pipe; or ADS pipe AASHTO-M294 type S, in the waterway
over which the walkway or driveway must be constructed or laid.
   B.   Permit Required; Failure To Obtain:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay a culvert without first
obtaining permission therefor from the superintendent of streets as to size or
gauge and suitable material of the pipe.
      2.   Any person who, without first obtaining the permission required by
subsection B1 of this section, does place a culvert in the waterway over which
a walkway or driveway extends to the traveled portion of the street shall, at
the discretion of the city, be subject to having the culvert removed at the
expense of the person causing the culvert to be unlawfully installed.
   C.   Costs For City Installation: The city street department may install
culverts at the following cost to the property owner: (1996 Code § 25-2)
      1.   For culverts up to twenty four inches (24") in diameter, the street
department will furnish labor, equipment and minimum fill at a cost of six
dollars fifty cents ($6.50) per linear foot for residential installation and
eight dollars ($8.00) per linear foot for commercial installation.
      2.   For culverts over twenty four inches (24") in diameter, the city
street department will furnish labor, equipment and minimum fill for eight
dollars twenty five cents ($8.25) per linear foot for residential installation.
For commercial installation, the city will furnish labor and equipment for ten
dollars fifty cents ($10.50) per linear foot, plus the cost of minimum fill and
hauling. (1996 Code § 25-2; amd. 2010 Code)
8-1-4: ENTRANCES TO PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Responsibility Of Landowner: All entrances to private property from the
city right of way shall be constructed by the landowner desiring the entrance.
   B.   Culvert Requirements: The entrance shall have a culvert of a minimum
length of twenty feet (20'), and the surface on the city right of way shall be
constructed of either concrete or asphalt. (1996 Code § 25-10)
8-1-5: PARKING AREAS ON RIGHTS OF WAY; CONCRETE, PAVED PADS:
   A.   Existing Roadways: On existing roadways, when the owner requests to
have parking on the city right of way and in the area adjacent to his property,
the following shall apply:
      1.   The owner will contact the city to verify that the proposed parking
area will not create traffic problems. (Ord. 1321, 7-25-2000)
      2.   The owner may place the concrete pad using a contractor or his own
labor and pay all costs of materials.
      3.   The owner may request to have city employees place the concrete and
have the material billed to him. If the owner chooses this option, the request
will be placed on a list and will be completed in the order received, or with
other work scheduled in the area. The owner will be contacted prior to work
starting and shall pay an advance deposit of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) to be applied to the cost of labor and materials. This applies for
all parking pads, driveway approaches or concrete placed on city rights of way
other than sidewalks. The owner shall pay any costs over seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) upon completion of the work. (Ord. 1321, 7-25-2000; amd. 2010
Code)
   B.   Replacement Roadways: With the design of replacement roadways, each
dwelling shall be provided with a paved driveway apron as part of the project.
Any paved surface that is in place prior to start of the project will be
replaced at no cost to the owner. For any area that has rock or is not paved at
the time of the project, the following will apply:
      1.   As part of the preliminary design phase of roadway reconstruction:
         a.   Letters will be sent to homeowners and landlords notifying them
of city policy. Included with the letter will be a request form for parking
pads.
         b.   The city engineer shall contact owners submitting requests for
parking pads and provide an estimated cost of material.
         c.   This estimate will be placed on an agreement form and provided to
the owner.
         d.   This agreement shall be signed by the owners, notarized and
delivered to the city hall prior to work commencing.
         e.   Any rocked parking areas not requested to be paved will be
returned to grass, and parking on the grass boulevards will be in violation of
the city ordinance.
         f.   With the approval of the city council, any rocked parking areas
that serve the general public can be paved at no cost to owner and marked
accordingly.
      2.   The owner shall be billed for concrete used within thirty (30) days
of completion. The bill shall be due upon receipt, and a finance charge of one
and one-half percent (1.5%) per month shall be charged for any outstanding
amount owed after thirty (30) days from date of invoice unless other
arrangements for payment have been made.
      3.   Any owner requesting concrete pads after work in their area is
completed will fall under the guidelines for existing pavement and will be
placed on the waiting list. (Ord. 1321, 7-25-2000)
8-1-6: OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited Generally:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct or place, or
cause to be erected, constructed or placed, any building, fence, porch, steps,
window, stairs, railing or other obstruction, in whole or in part, upon any
street, alley, sidewalk or other public ground in the city.
      2.   The owner of any fence, building, porch, steps, window, stairs,
railing or other obstruction, standing or which may hereafter be erected or
placed upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground within the city, or
which may be left standing upon any new street or alley that may hereafter be
opened, shall remove the encroachment within such reasonable time, not
exceeding thirty (30) nor less than three (3) days, as he shall be required to
do by a notice served upon him, signed by the mayor, the chief of police or any
police officer of the city. (1996 Code § 25-3)
   B.   Building Materials In Public Ways: No builder or other person shall
encumber or obstruct any street or alley with building or similar materials
without a written permit therefor from the city. It shall also be unlawful to,
except in urgent necessity and for a short time, encumber or obstruct more than
one-third (1/3) of any street or alley, or one-half (1/2) of the sidewalk, nor
shall such obstruction continue in any case longer than may be necessary in the
diligent erection of the building or the prompt execution of the work. (1996
Code § 25-4)
   C.   Merchandise And Other Property: No person shall obstruct or encumber
any street or alley with merchandise, fuel or other articles or property longer
than may be necessary in the diligent removal thereof. (1996 Code § 25-5)
8-1-7: WATER DRAINAGE OVER SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit the water falling or
draining from any building owned by him or under his control to spread over the
sidewalk in front of or adjacent to the premises. (1996 Code § 25-8)
8-1-8: REMOVING GRADE OR CORNER STAKES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely change or remove any stake,
post or stone placed or set to designate the corner or line of any lot or land,
street or alley, or to show the grade of any street, alley or sidewalk. (1996
Code § 25-7)
8-1-9: CHIPPING TREE LIMBS 1 :
   A.   Service Provided By City: The city is hereby empowered to provide a
service to city residents in the form of chipping tree limbs. Requests for such
service shall be made to the street department. (1996 Code § 25-9)
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Fees Established:
         a.   The city is authorized to charge a fee of one hundred twenty five
dollars ($125.00) for chipping limbs from a tree whose trunk is smaller than
one foot (1') in diameter.
         b.   The city is authorized to charge a fee of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for chipping limbs from a tree whose trunk is the diameter of
one foot (1') or more. (1996 Code § 25-9; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Payment Of Fees: Fees are required to be paid prior to the
performance of the service. In cases of a natural disaster due to ice or wind,
the city may waive said fees for a period of not more than thirty (30) days.
(1996 Code § 25-9)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-5-8 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permit Required; Penalty For Failure To Obtain
8-2-2: Application For Permit
8-2-3: Deposit Or Bond Required
8-2-4: Notice To Superintendent Of Permit Issuance
8-2-5: Supervision Of Work
8-2-6: Minimum Requirements
8-2-7: Restoration Of Excavated Area; Liability Of Permittee
8-2-8: Protection Of Excavations
8-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO OBTAIN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in a city street
without first obtaining a permit therefor as provided in this chapter. Failure
to obtain a permit as required may be punishable by a fine of up to two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) per day for each day the violation continues. (1996
Code § 25-19; amd. 2010 Code)
8-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a permit required by this chapter shall be made in writing on a
form furnished by the city clerk. The application shall be made by the
contractor doing the excavation and shall contain a clear and exact description
of the property, the purpose for which the excavation is proposed to be made,
the nature and character of the water or sewer tap, if desired, and drains, if
any, proposed to be put in. (Ord. 1260, 5-4-1999)
8-2-3: DEPOSIT OR BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Amounts Of Deposits: At the time of making an application for a permit
required by this chapter, the applicant shall deposit with the city the
appropriate sum as indicated below: (Ord. 1337, 5-15-2001)
 
Excavation through oil and chip road surface $ 850.00
Excavation through asphalt road surface      1,500.00
Excavation through concrete road surface     3,000.00
 
(Ord. 1337, 5-15-2001; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Retaining Deposit; Refunds; Insufficient Deposit:
      1.   The city shall have the right to hold the deposit for up to ninety
(90) days. At the end of said ninety (90) days, if the excavation has been
properly refilled, the city shall refund the sum deposited less fifty dollars
($50.00) for administrative costs.
      2.   In the event the excavation has not been properly refilled, the city
shall have the right to take the deposit and apply it to the cost of properly
refilling the excavation.
      3.   In the event the deposit is insufficient to cover the cost of
refilling the excavation, then the city shall have further rights as described
in this chapter.
   C.   Performance Bond In Lieu Of Deposit: A contractor making the excavation
may, in lieu of making the above deposit, submit a performance bond for work
involved, payable to the city for an amount up to two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00). (Ord. 1337, 5-15-2001)
8-2-4: NOTICE TO SUPERINTENDENT OF PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Upon the issuance of a permit required by this chapter, it shall be the duty of
the person to whom the permit is granted to present the permit to the
superintendent of streets and to notify him of the nature and character of the
excavation proposed to be made and the time proposed for the making thereof.
(1996 Code § 25-22)
8-2-5: SUPERVISION OF WORK:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the superintendent of streets to personally
superintend the making of an excavation subject to this chapter and the
backfilling thereof, and he shall cause all excavations so made to be
backfilled in the best possible manner and the pavement to be replaced as
nearly as possible to its original condition.
   B.   All workers engaged in the work of making excavations subject to this
chapter and the backfilling thereof shall at all times be under the direction
and control of the superintendent of streets. (1996 Code § 25-23)
8-2-6: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Concrete Street Openings:
      1.   Concrete shall be sawed a minimum of three inches (3") deep before
concrete removal in an area as follows:
         a.   The minimum width of the section removed shall be four feet (4').
For cuts not involving the curb or just curb sections, the cut shall start at
the edge of the curb two feet (2') from the outside face and extend to the
nearest joint or centerline of the road, for a road with no longitudinal
joints.
         b.   For cuts involving just the curb, curb sections shall be removed
in lengths of eight feet (8') or from joint to joint, whichever is smaller.
         c.   For cuts extending beyond the centerline, the full section
between curbs, and an eight foot (8') wide minimum, shall be removed and
replaced.
      2.   Replacement of excavation shall consist of full depth sand or rock
backfill, to be jetted or mechanically tamped and approved by the street
department prior to replacing concrete.
      3.   Fresh concrete shall be pinned to existing concrete by boring no. 4
reinforcing bars at twelve inch (12") maximum centers at all sides of contact.
Rebar shall be bored a minimum of four inches (4") into existing concrete and
shall be embedded twelve inches (12") minimum into fresh concrete.
      4.   In the event of full width replacements, no. 4 reinforcing at twelve
inch (12") minimum spacing shall be placed across the trench and parallel with
the centerline of the road and extend the full width of the removed section.
   B.   Other Than Concrete Streets: Street openings on streets other than
concrete are to be sawed, chopped or axed out, not over thirty inches (30")
wide, unless permission is given. (1996 Code § 25-26)
8-2-7: RESTORATION OF EXCAVATED AREA; LIABILITY OF PERMITTEE:
If a property owner to whom a permit was issued pursuant to this chapter does
not properly refill the excavation and place the street in as good condition as
it was originally, the city may then repair the excavation and charge the
property owner for the labor and materials expended thereon. The city may apply
all or any part of the deposit made by the person to whom a permit was issued
to the cost of properly refilling the excavation. In the event the deposit is
not sufficient to adequately reimburse the city, then the city has the right to
file a civil action against the person to whom the permit was issued in order
to recover unreimbursed expenses, court costs and attorney fees. (1996 Code §
25-24)
8-2-8: PROTECTION OF EXCAVATIONS:
Whenever any person is engaged in making an excavation subject to this chapter,
if the excavation, when left exposed, would be dangerous to persons or
vehicles, the person to whom a permit is issued pursuant to this chapter shall
erect a fence or railing at the excavation or work in such a manner as to
prevent danger to persons, and shall so maintain such fence or railing until
such work is completed or danger removed. It shall also be the duty of such
person to place upon the railing or fence at sunset, suitable and sufficient
red or yellow lights and keep them burning through the night during the
performance of such work. (1996 Code § 25-25)
CHAPTER 3
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Rules And Regulations For Parks Generally
8-3-2: Dolan Park; Hours
8-3-3: Carl "Jerry" Wittman/Lions Club Park; Parking
8-3-4: Wock Family Lake
8-3-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PARKS GENERALLY:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, use of
the Jerseyville parks and their facilities shall be limited to and governed by
the following rules, regulations and restrictions:
      1.   Hours:
         a.   All parks shall be open to the public from seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. until the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. during Central Standard Time
and from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. during
Central Daylight Saving Time. (1996 Code § 21-1)
         b.   No person or group of persons shall be permitted to use such
parks or their facilities outside the limits of the foregoing hours without
having first secured a written permit for such use from the parks and
recreation board of the city or person in charge of the facility or designated
authority. (1996 Code § 21-1; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Refuse And Trash Deposits:
         a.   Containers for the deposit of refuse of all kinds are provided
throughout the parks. All users of the parks and their facilities shall deposit
their trash and refuse in such containers.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any person using such parks or their
facilities to allow trash or other refuse to be thrown, scattered or otherwise
deposited upon the premises of the parks in other than a container designated
for such refuse.
      3.   Fires:
         a.   No fires shall be permitted in any area of the parks other than
in areas posted clearly permitting such fires and then only in grills or ovens
provided by the parks or in so called barbecue grills owned by the users.
         b.   No lawfully permitted fire shall be left unattended, and all
fires, lawfully permitted, shall be completely and thoroughly extinguished by
the persons using such fire before such persons shall leave the area.
      4.   Vehicle Operation:
         a.   No vehicle shall be operated within the confines of the parks,
except on regular roadways. (1996 Code § 21-1)
         b.   No minibikes, four-wheelers, three-wheelers, motor scooters or
go-carts shall be permitted, except on regular roadways. (1996 Code § 21-1;
amd. 2010 Code)
         c.   Vehicles shall be parked in such areas as shall be designated for
parking or along roadways so long as such parked vehicle shall not block any
such roadway or driveway. (1996 Code § 21-1)
      5.   Presence Of Liquor Or Drugs: No person shall bring within, possess,
drink, sell, or transfer any intoxicating liquors or drugs in the park system.
(1996 Code § 21-1; amd. 2010 Code)
      6.   Firearms: It shall be unlawful to discharge or carry upon the person
any firearm within the confines of the parks. For the purpose of this section,
a "firearm" shall be construed as including any device capable of discharging a
projectile for a distance of more than fifty feet (50') regardless of the means
used to propel such projectile.
      7.   Disturbing The Peace: No person shall make, aid, countenance, or
assist in making any loud, unusual, or improper noise, threat, fight,
disturbance, nuisance, breach of the peace, or diversion or tending to a breach
of the peace or disturbance of the peace and quiet in the park system, or be
guilty of any disorderly conduct therein, or collect with other persons, in
bodies or crowds, for unlawful purposes, or for any purpose to the annoyance,
obstruction or disturbance of other persons or lawful assemblage.
      8.   Profane, Indecent Language, Acts Or Publications: No persons shall
use any abusive, threatening, profane, indecent, or obscene language, or
language calculated to occasion a breach of peace; nor induce, commit, or
perform any indecent or obscene act or behavior; nor exhibit, possess or
transfer indecent or obscene pictures, writings or articles of any kind within
the park system.
      9.   Riding Horses: No person shall ride any horse, pony, or other
equestrian animal within the confines of the parks except upon regular
roadways.
      10.   Tampering With, Damage To Property: It shall be unlawful to
wilfully mark upon, deface, damage, destroy or remove any park facility or
property of any nature whatsoever.
      11.   Sleeping, Camping: No person shall place, erect, or use any
hammock, swing, tent, or shelter or otherwise camp or sleep in the park system
except such organizations who may have received written permission from the
director to do same. (1996 Code § 21-1)
      12.   Use Of Playground Equipment: No adult person shall in any manner
use any of the playground apparatus or devices meant exclusively for the use of
children. (1996 Code § 21-1; amd. 2010 Code)
      13.   Athletic Events; Amusements:
         a.   No person shall engage in games of softball or baseball except in
those parks which have established diamonds and backstops constructed for that
purpose.
         b.   No person shall engage in any sport, game or amusement in the
park system except at such places and times as may be designated by the
department and then only under such rules as are prescribed; nor shall any
person walk, remain, or conduct himself upon such portion of the park system
designated for any particular game, sport, or amusement in such way as to
interfere with the use of such portion by persons who are using the same for
the particular sport, game or amusement for which it has been designated.
         c.   No golfing shall be allowed on any portion of the park system.
         d.   No person shall engage in any activity in a rough or reckless
manner so as to endanger, injure or damage persons or property in any way.
(1996 Code § 21-1)
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation occurs or
continues. (1996 Code § 21-1; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Application Of Other Regulations: All persons using facilities of
Jerseyville parks or who shall be upon the confines of such parks shall be
subject to all ordinances of the city then in effect even though the same shall
not be specifically recited herein. (1996 Code § 21-1)
8-3-2: DOLAN PARK; HOURS:
   A.   Hours Park Open: The Dolan Park shall be open between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. until the hour of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. during Central
Standard Time and from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until the hour of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. during Central Daylight Saving Time, except on such evenings when
ball games shall end later. In such event, the park shall close ten (10)
minutes after the ball field lights are turned off. (1996 Code § 21-2; amd.
2010 Code)
   B.   Prohibitions After Hours:
      1.   No one shall be permitted upon the park grounds when the park is
closed except authorized personnel.
      2.   There shall be no parking within the park after closing hours.
      3.   There shall be no loitering within the park after closing hours.
(1996 Code § 21-2)
8-3-3: CARL "JERRY" WITTMAN/LIONS CLUB PARK; PARKING:
   A.   Parking Restricted: All parking in Carl "Jerry" Wittman/Lions Club Park
and on the city property adjoining said park is hereby restricted to those
individuals using the park facilities. (Ord. 1277, 11-2-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Enforcement: Section
7-7-2 of this code, as to penalties and impoundment, shall apply to any
violation of this section. (Ord. 1277, 11-2-1999)
8-3-4: WOCK FAMILY LAKE:
   A.   Hours And Fishing Season: The Wock Family Lake shall be open to the
public from sunrise to sunset year round and open for fishing during those
hours beginning on April 1 and ending on October 31.
   B.   Fishing:
      1.   No person shall be allowed to fish at the lake without a valid
Illinois fishing license. This requirement shall not apply to children under
sixteen (16) years old or persons declared legally disabled or blind.
      2.   No person shall be allowed to have more than two (2) fishing lines
in the water at a time.
      3.   The number and size of fish that may be removed from the lake shall
be as follows:
 
Fish                   Daily Limit Minimum Size
Bluegill               10          None
Channel catfish        6           None
Largemouth bass        3           15 inches
Redear hybrid bluegill 10          None
 
      4.   No live minnow bait or fish from outside sources may be placed in
the lake without city authorization.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fish by trout line, jug, or
bank line, or to engage in frogging.
      6.   Cleaning fish on city property is prohibited.
   C.   Boats: Only boats authorized by the city shall be allowed on the lake.
   D.   Prohibited: No person shall swim, ice skate, ice fish, or walk on ice
in the lake. (Ord. 1583, 4-17-2012)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Library Established
8-4-2: Library Board
8-4-3: Damage To Library Property
8-4-4: Failure To Return Books
8-4-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a free public library and reading room for the use
of the inhabitants of the city, which shall be known as the Jerseyville public
library. (1996 Code § 15.5-1)
8-4-2: LIBRARY BOARD:
The library shall be under the supervision and management of a board of nine
(9) directors to be appointed in accordance with the provisions of the statutes
of the state relating to public libraries, and said board of directors shall
have all the powers and authority covered by such statutes. (1996 Code § 15.5-
2)
8-4-3: DAMAGE TO LIBRARY PROPERTY:
Any person that shall wilfully or maliciously cut, write upon, injure, destroy,
tear or deface any book, newspaper, plate, picture, engraving, statue,
furniture, fixture, or any other property belonging to the Jerseyville public
library shall be liable for a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each and every
offense, said fine, when received, to be paid to the city treasurer and placed
to the credit of the library fund. (1996 Code § 15.5-3; amd. 2010 Code)
8-4-4: FAILURE TO RETURN BOOKS:
Any person who shall fail to return any book belonging to the Jerseyville
public library shall be subject to the rules and regulations as set forth by
the Jerseyville library board. (1996 Code § 15.5-4; amd. 2010 Code)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Water And Sewer Department; Superintendent Of Water And Sewers
9-1-2: Excavations For Service Lines
9-1-1: WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT; SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWERS:
There is hereby established the water and sewer department of the city, which
shall have jurisdiction over the water and sewerage systems, the water and
sewer maintenance and the waterworks and sewer plant of the city. The head of
the department shall be the commissioner of public health and safety. The city
engineer shall be the superintendent of water and sewers. (1996 Code § 30-16;
amd. 2010 Code)
9-1-2: EXCAVATIONS FOR SERVICE LINES 1 :
The city may require, in the discretion of the city engineer, that certain
water or sewer lines be installed only by boring underneath the city streets or
alleys. All boring shall be done under the observation of city personnel. (1996
Code § 30-1; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
RATES, CHARGES AND FINANCES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Combined System Rates And Charges
9-2-2: Rates Established
9-2-3: Review And Notice Of Rates
9-2-4: Liability For Charges; Billing Questions And Challenges
9-2-5: Late Payments; Penalty; Discontinuance Of Service
9-2-6: Delinquent Payments; Lien Provisions
9-2-7: Turning On And Off Water
9-2-8: City Charged For Fire Hydrant Connection
9-2-9: Bond For Handling Sewerage System Funds
9-2-1: COMBINED SYSTEM RATES AND CHARGES:
The rates and charges set forth in this chapter are established for the use and
service of the combined water and sewerage systems of the city. (1996 Code §
30-44; amd. 2010 Code)
9-2-2: RATES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   User Rates:
      1.   Inside City:
         a.   For each premises which may be directly or indirectly connected
to the water lines and sewers or to either the water lines or sewers of the
water and sewerage systems, a charge shall be made for each monthly period to
be determined by applying to the total quantity of water used or consumed on
the premises during the monthly period, the rates which pertain to the use made
of the premises and the type of service received as follows:
Domestic service, commercial and industrial services: Applicable to all
premises used for either residential, commercial or industrial, including all
public buildings, cemeteries, parks, churches and clubhouses:
            (1)   Water portion of water and sewer charge.
            (2)   Water only bills.
            (3)   Sewer portion of water and sewer charge. (Ord. 1200, 3-11-
1997; amd. 2010 Code)
         b.   There shall be charged an annual fee to anyone who installs an
unmetered sprinkler system based on square footage. (Ord. 1164, 2-13-1996; amd.
2010 Code)
         c.   The city clerk shall have on file the most recent ordinance
setting forth the current charges. (2010 Code)
      2.   Outside City: For those premises which have fifty percent (50%) or
more of the improvements on the premises outside the city, the rates
established in subsection A1 of this section are increased by ordinance on file
in the city clerk's office.
   B.   Assessments:
      1.   Capital Improvement And Replacement Assessment: In addition to the
minimum monthly service charge as indicated, there shall be a capital
improvement and replacement assessment for all users of water and sewer service
as established by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city
clerk. The funds collected as capital improvement and replacement assessments
shall be used strictly for capital improvements and replacement.
      2.   Depreciation Fund Assessment: In addition to the minimum monthly
service charge as indicated and in addition to the capital improvement and
replacement assessment, there shall be an additional depreciation fund
assessment for all users of water and sewer service as established by ordinance
or resolution on file in the office of the city clerk. The funds collected as
depreciation fund assessment shall be maintained in a fund for replacement of
depreciable items. Said increase shall be effective as of September 1, 1993.
(1996 Code § 30-46; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   EPA Water Testing Assessment: In addition to the minimum monthly
service charge as indicated and in addition to the capital improvement,
replacement assessment and depreciation fund assessment, there shall be an
additional EPA water testing assessment for all users of water service as
established by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city clerk.
The funds collected as EPA water testing assessment shall be maintained in a
fund for costs of water testing. Said increase shall be effective July 1, 1998.
(Ord. 1235, 6-2-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Industrial Surcharge: There shall be an industrial surcharge as
established by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city clerk
to any users of the city's sewerage facilities whose wastewater discharge
strengths exceed normal domestic strength sewage. (1996 Code § 30-46; amd. 2010
Code)
9-2-3: REVIEW AND NOTICE OF RATES:
   A.   Annual Review: The adequacy of the water and sewer service charge shall
be reviewed, not less than annually, by the certified public accountants for
the city, in their annual audit report. The water and sewer service charge
shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital cost or
operation, maintenance and replacement cost. (Ord. 1307, 1-11-2000; amd. 2010
Code)
   B.   Notice Of Rates: A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the
treasurer, shall be filed in the office of the county recorder of deeds and
shall be deemed notice to all applicable owners of real estate of the charges
for the water and sewerage system. (1996 Code § 30-46; amd. 2010 Code)
9-2-4: LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; BILLING QUESTIONS AND CHALLENGES:
   A.   Liability For Charges; Time Frame: The minimum charges for water
service established in this chapter shall be paid for each meter service,
beginning with the acceptance of the system by the water and sewer department
or the installation of the meter service by the water and sewer department,
whichever is the latter, even if the user uses no water during that period.
(Ord. 1253, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Bills To All Customers: All customers with any meter readings,
regardless of monthly consumption, will be billed.
   C.   Billing Questions And Challenges:
      1.   Responsible City Officers And Personnel: Any billing questions will
go directly to the bookkeeper for answers. If not available in a reasonable
time, the problem should be directed to the city clerk. (Ord. 1253, 3-23-1999)
      2.   Challenges Of Less Than One Hundred Fifty Dollars: Any rebate for
challenges by customers of less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) must
be approved by the commissioner of public health and safety. If he is not
available, it should be referred to the commissioner of accounts and finances.
      3.   Challenges Of One Hundred Fifty Dollars Or More: If any bill of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) or more is challenged by the customer, a
hearing must be held for a joint decision by the head bookkeeper, the
commissioner of public health and safety, the commissioner of accounts and
finances, and the mayor. Minutes of said hearing shall be taken by the city
clerk for the record.
      4.   Limitations On Authority To Adjust Bill: No one in the water and
sewer office or water and sewer department has the authority to abate any bill.
(Ord. 1253, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
9-2-5: LATE PAYMENTS; PENALTY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
There shall be a ten percent (10%) charge added to each water and sewer bill,
or either, that is unpaid ten (10) days after mailing. On or about the
fifteenth of the month, the city clerk's office will mail a final delinquent
notice. If any bill remains unpaid on the twenty fifth of the month or the next
closest working day, the water and sewer department will discontinue service
without further notice. If the disconnect day falls on a Friday or the day
prior to a holiday, the disconnection will be made the day before the normal
shut off day. A further assessment as established by ordinance or resolution on
file in the office of the city clerk will be charged on any bill that remains
unpaid on the twenty fifth of the month. At this time, the landlord of rental
property will be notified that the renter is delinquent in payment of the water
and sewer bill. (Ord. 1217, 11-4-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
9-2-6: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Delinquent Charges A Lien: In the event charges for any of the services
of the water and sewerage systems are not paid within thirty (30) days after a
bill therefor is rendered, the charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared
to be delinquent, and the delinquent charges shall constitute a lien on the
real estate upon or for which the service shall have been supplied. (1996 Code
§ 30-52)
   B.   Filing Lien: A sworn statement shall be filed in the office of the
county recorder of deeds by the city clerk, setting out a description of the
real estate sufficient for the identification thereof, the amount due for the
services, penalties, and recording fees, and the date when such amount became
delinquent, which shall be deemed notice of the lien for payment of the
services, penalties, and recording fees. (1996 Code § 30-52; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Foreclosure Of Lien: The city shall have the power to foreclose a lien
perfected pursuant to this chapter in like manner and with like effect as in
the foreclosure of mortgages on real estate.
   D.   Action At Law For Delinquency: The city is authorized from time to time
to sue the occupant or user of real estate in a civil action to recover money
due for water and sewerage services, plus a reasonable attorney fee for the
city attorney to be fixed by the court. If a judgment is obtained in the civil
action, the obtaining of a judgment shall operate as a release and waiver of
any lien for said amount which has been obtained, or is obtainable, under this
chapter. (1996 Code § 30-53)
9-2-7: TURNING ON AND OFF WATER:
   A.   Turn On And Off By Customer: Any individual or customer turning off or
on water at meter or shut off valve, other than city employees, will be
considered as tampering with city property and will pay a tampering fee as
established by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city clerk
before water is turned back on. Water turned off by the customers inside their
homes, with shut off valve after meter, is done at their discretion and does
not affect service or monthly charges.
   B.   Vacation And Emergency Turn Offs: There will be a charge as established
by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city clerk for
customers requesting water to be turned off when going on vacation. This is a
one time fee and will be turned back on at customer's request with no
additional charge. Turning off in an emergency, i.e., broken line or during
construction, will not be charged. (Ord. 1253, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
9-2-8: CITY CHARGED FOR FIRE HYDRANT CONNECTION:
There shall be charged to the city and paid out of the general corporate fund
or from any other available fund other than the water and sewerage fund a sum
as established by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city
clerk for each fire hydrant connected to the city water system for fire
protection, which annual charge shall be paid in equal monthly installments.
(1996 Code § 30-48; amd. 2010 Code)
9-2-9: BOND FOR HANDLING SEWERAGE SYSTEM FUNDS:
Prior to the receipt of any funds that are proceeds derived either from the
sale of the city sewerage revenue bonds issued under a bond ordinance or
revenues or other monies derived from the city sewerage system, the collector
of the funds and the city treasurer, respectively, shall, for each year,
execute a bond in at least double the amount of any funds which they,
respectively, will have on hand at any one time during the year, which bonds
shall be conditioned upon a faithful accounting for such funds and shall be
subject to the approval of the city council. (1996 Code § 30-51)
ARTICLE A. WASTEWATER USER CHARGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Definitions
9-2A-2: User Charge System
9-2A-3: Arbitration Of Differences; Hearing Board
9-2A-4: EPA Access To Records
9-2A-5: Violations
9-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this article shall be as follows:
ACT: The clean water act, public law 95-217, as amended.
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams
per liter.
CITY: The city of Jerseyville.
COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT: Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal
coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost
of any bond debt to be paid by revenue generated from the operation of the
treatment works.
DEPRECIATION: The decrease in the monetary value of an asset with time.
DIRECTOR: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. EPA participation in the financing of the construction
of treatment works as provided under the clean water act, public law 95-217.
HEARING BOARD: That board appointed according to provisions of section
9-2A-3 of this article.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater discharges from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from their employees' domestic wastes
and wastes from sanitary conveniences.
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters
(1,000 ml) of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per
million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of
water and wastewater analysis.
MULTIPLE-UNIT RESIDENCES: Shall include any number of living units under one
roof designed to house either an individual or family. Each unit may consist of
one or more rooms. Included in this classification are apartment buildings or
complexes, duplexes, condominiums, boarding houses and two-family houses.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE: Those actions, materials and services necessary for
the proper functioning of treatment and collection facilities over their useful
life.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, company, limited liability
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
political subdivision, or any other legal entity or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution, as outlined in "standard methods".
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD and 0.22
pound of suspended solids.
PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL USER (NONINDUSTRIAL USER): Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: Any single unit of any multiple-unit residence.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface
water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collection, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER RATE: A charge for the use of and services supplied by the sewage works
of the city.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of sewage works of the city, or his agent or
representative, or that person designated by the city to perform the duties of
that office.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS OR SS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the treatment works will be
operated and is anticipated to exceed thirty (30) years from the date of
startup of any wastewater facilities.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance, including replacement.
USER CLASS: The type of user, either "residential or commercial" or
"industrial".
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge; sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "sewage
treatment plant".
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1996 Code § 30-171; amd. 2010 Code)
9-2A-2: USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
   A.   Monthly Rates And Charges: There shall be monthly rates and charges for
the use of and service supplied by the sewerage system of the city, as
established in section
9-2-2 of this chapter. (1996 Code § 30-175)
   B.   Minimum Monthly Charges; Industrial Surcharge And Additional Charges:
For the purpose of determining user charges for the use of and services
supplied by the sewerage system of the city, a minimum monthly service charge
and a service charge rate per one hundred (100) gallons of metered water use
shall be established for all users; except, that a separate charge shall be
established for unmetered users. For domestic wastes, no distinction is made
between the various classes of residential, commercial or industrial use, and
the same minimum charge and user charge rates are applicable to all classes.
However, a surcharge shall be applicable to industrial users for their
industrial wastes.
      1.   Minimum Monthly User Charge: The minimum monthly user charge shall
consist of a flat rate charge to cover debt service, fixed billing expenses,
and treatment and collection costs for the first two thousand (2,000) gallons
of water use. (1996 Code § 30-176)
      2.   User Charge Rate: The user charge rate shall be based on water usage
as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters. It shall include amounts for
salaries, wages and benefits, operation and maintenance, equipment replacement
and debt retirement, as determined appropriate by the city. (1996 Code § 30-
176; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Industrial Surcharge:
         a.   An industrial surcharge in addition to the user charge rate shall
be assessed to cover the proportional cost for treatment of the additional
contaminant loading from higher strength wastes. The surcharge for BOD and SS
shall be applicable only if both of the following two (2) conditions are met:
            (1)   The concentration of BOD exceeds three hundred milligrams per
liter (300 mg/l) or suspended solids exceed three hundred ninety milligrams per
liter (390 mg/l).
            (2)   The mass loading per employee per eight (8) hour shift for
BOD exceeds 0.057 pound, or for suspended solids exceeds 0.073 pound.
         b.   If both of the above conditions are met, then the surcharge shall
apply to that portion of each parameter which exceeds the above concentration.
The city shall have the authority to assess a surcharge on any other parameter
discharged in concentrations higher than found in normal domestic sewage.
      4.   Handling And Sampling: Industrial users shall be billed an
additional charge to cover the cost of wastewater monitoring, proportionate to
the number of times per year their class of user is sampled.
      5.   Additional Charges: There shall be billed, as required, additional
charges for the following:
         a.   Actual costs incurred for user requested sampling and analyses.
         b.   Actual costs incurred for special handling or other user services
not provided for elsewhere in this article.
         c.   Actual costs incurred for handling a user's check with
insufficient funds. (1996 Code § 30-176)
   C.   Unmetered User Charges:
      1.   Single-Family Residential Users: The unmetered user charge for
single-family residential sewer users who do not have water or sewer meters
shall be approximately equal to the average monthly bill for single-family
residences unless an adjusted amount is determined to be justified based on
water usage.
      2.   Multiple-Unit Residential Users: Unmetered multiple-unit residences
shall be assessed the unmetered user charge times the number of residential
units.
      3.   Commercial Or Industrial Users: Commercial or industrial users
without meters shall have a charge established by the city on a case by case
basis.
      4.   Meter Installation: In applicable circumstances, the city or the
user may install a water or sewage meter at cost to the user. (1996 Code § 30-
177)
   D.   Review Of Charges: The city shall review the annual audit of operation,
maintenance and debt service costs for the wastewater facilities, including
sewer rates and charges, and revise sewer rates and charges periodically to
reflect actual treatment works operation and maintenance costs and the cost of
debt services. The city shall also periodically review and revise user charges
to ensure that the user charges for each user class are proportional to usage
of the wastewater facilities of the city. (1996 Code § 30-178)
9-2A-3: ARBITRATION OF DIFFERENCES; HEARING BOARD:
A hearing board shall meet as needed for arbitration of differences between the
superintendent and sewer users on matters other than billing issues concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this article by the
superintendent. The cost of the arbitration will be divided equally between the
city and the sewer user. The hearing board membership shall consist of the
mayor and city council members. (1996 Code §§ 30-190, 30-191; amd. 2010 Code)
9-2A-4: EPA ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois environmental protection agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the city which
are applicable to the city's system of user charges for the purpose of making
audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the special and general conditions to any state or federal
grant. (1996 Code § 30-192)
9-2A-5: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Misdemeanor Violation: Any person violating any of the provisions or
failing to comply with any of the requirements of this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable as a class B misdemeanor under the unified code of
corrections of Illinois 1 . (1996 Code § 30-196)
   B.   Liability To City For Costs: Any person violating any of the provisions
of this article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or
damage occasioned by the city, including attorney fees, by reason of such
violation. (1996 Code § 30-197)
 
Notes
1 1. 730 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 3
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Water And Sewer Department Powers And Duties
9-3-3: Authority To Turn On And Off Water
9-3-4: Application For Service And User Agreement Required
9-3-5: Water Taps And Fees
9-3-6: Deposit For Water Use
9-3-7: Permitted Uses Of City Water; Resale Prohibited
9-3-8: Change In Occupancy
9-3-9: Service Lines
9-3-10: Meter Installation; Swimming Pools
9-3-11: Easements
9-3-12: Extension Of Mains
9-3-13: Use Of Groundwater As Potable Water Prohibited
9-3-14: Cross Connection Control
9-3-15: Tampering With, Damage To System
9-3-16: Nonliability Of City For Interruption Of Service
9-3-17: Miscellaneous Regulations
9-3-18: Arbitration Of Differences; Hearing Board
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection agency.
Federal Act: The federal 1996 safe drinking act amendments.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The city council.
City: The city of Jerseyville.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, company, limited liability
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
political subdivision, or any other legal entity or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
State Act: The Illinois anti-pollution bond act of 1970 1 .
State Loan: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of waterworks as provided for by the Illinois anti-pollution bond
act and for making such loans as filed with the secretary of the state of
Illinois.
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public water
system.
Capital Improvement Charge: A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the waterworks.
Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc., outstanding.
Local Capital Cost Charge: Charges for cost, other than the operation,
maintenance, and replacement cost, i.e., debt service and capital improvement
costs.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the works to
maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes "replacement".
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the waterworks will be operated.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of waterworks for the cost of operation,
maintenance and replacement.
Water Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received in
the operation of the water system.
Water Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied on all users of
the water facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in
chapter 2 of this title and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge
and the local capital cost charge, if applicable.
WATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
Curb Cock: A shutoff valve attached to a water service pipe from a water main
to a building installed near the curb, which is operated by a valve key to
start or stop flow in the water supply lines of a building. Also called a "curb
stop".
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of concentration of water constituent. It is 0.001
gram of the constituent in one thousand milliliters (1,000 ml) of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water analysis.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution, as outlined in "standard methods".
Service Box: A valve box used with corporation or curb cock. (Ord. 1307, 1-11-
2000; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
9-3-2: WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Ownership, Installation And Maintenance:
      1.   The city shall own and the water and sewer department shall install
and maintain the complete water system, water mains and service lines to the
property line of premises to be served under this chapter or to a mutually
agreed upon point, subject to the city council determining that a particular
service is economically feasible to install. (1996 Code § 30-70; amd. 2010
Code)
      2.   The water and sewer department shall furnish, install and maintain a
water meter. The shutoff valve shall be installed on the user's property line
or such other point determined by a duly authorized representative of the water
and sewer department. The water meter may be located near the shutoff valve or
within the user's premises as determined by the water and sewer department
representative. The meter and shutoff valve shall be located at a point where
it is readily accessible. (1996 Code § 30-70)
   B.   Refusal Of Service: The water and sewer department may at any time
refuse additional services to any applicant if, in the judgment of the city
council, the capacity of the system will not permit such use. (1996 Code § 30-
70; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Use Of Water On User's Premises: The water and sewer department shall
reserve the right to use the water from the user's facilities at any time
deemed necessary. No charge shall be made by the user for the use of
facilities, and no charge shall be made by the water and sewer department for
the water used by the water and sewer department. (1996 Code § 30-70)
9-3-3: AUTHORITY TO TURN ON AND OFF WATER:
It shall be unlawful, except in an emergency, for any person, other than an
authorized officer or employee of the city to turn water on or off to any
premises in the city. (1996 Code § 30-74; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE AND USER AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   City water service shall be furnished only to users upon the filing of
an application therefor and a water user's agreement with the office of the
water and sewer department, upon a form to be supplied by the water and sewer
department. However, all city water service being furnished to anyone outside
the city limits must be approved by the city council before any connection
charges are paid. (1996 Code § 30-67)
   B.   If more than one family living unit is located upon the premises, then
the user shall make an application for each family living unit, and a separate
cutoff valve, meter and service line shall be installed for each family living
unit. (1996 Code § 30-73; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-5: WATER TAPS AND FEES:
   A.   Fees Established:
      1.   Generally: The city clerk shall have on file the most recent
ordinance setting forth the current connection charges. (2010 Code)
      2.   Retap Fee: The city shall charge a property owner a fee as
established by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city clerk
for each retap for upgrading water services to any property. In addition, the
city shall charge the property owner the costs of materials necessary to make
the retap. (Ord. 1209, 7-15-1997; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Payment Of Fees: All water tap-on fees must be paid with the building
permit application fees for new construction, or a minimum of five (5) business
days prior to beginning construction. (Ord. 1242, 7-14-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Installation Outside City: The following provisions apply to customers
outside the city limits:
      1.   The customer will dig out the location of the main line and the tap
in preparation for making the tap.
      2.   On any tap, a flat fee will be charged, plus material costs, and
construction is to be furnished by the customer. (Ord. 1189, 9-10-1996; amd.
2010 Code)
      3.   Any replacement or repair on this line will be the responsibility of
the property owner.
      4.   Any main water line installed on private property without proper
easements, that have not been accepted by the city, are the responsibility of
the property owner. (Ord. 1189, 9-10-1996)
9-3-6: DEPOSIT FOR WATER USE:
In addition to the connection charges established in this chapter, a deposit as
established by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city clerk
shall be made by all users requesting service in their name, whether they are
owners or renters of the property, commercial or residential users, to
guarantee payment of water bills for which the user is solely responsible. The
deposit shall be returned to the user without interest upon termination of the
water service if that user has paid all accounts in full. If the accounts are
not paid in full, the deposit will be applied to that account or any account
due in that user's name. (Ord. 1393, 1-21-2003; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-7: PERMITTED USES OF CITY WATER; RESALE PROHIBITED:
Water purchased from the water and sewer department may be used for ordinary
domestic, industrial or farm use upon the premises of the user; provided, that
no user shall resell or permit the resale of water purchased from the water and
sewer department. (1996 Code § 30-66)
9-3-8: CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Notice To City Clerk: Any user requesting a termination of service
shall give written notice to the city clerk ten (10) days prior to the time
such termination of service is desired. At that time, the meter shall be read
by the water and sewer department, and the user will be billed for the charges
for water consumed. (1996 Code § 30-80; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Responsibility For Services Consumed: Responsibility for payment for
water consumed prior to the request for termination pursuant to subsection A of
this section shall be with the user.
   C.   No Charge For Change: There shall be no charge for transferring the
water service to a subsequent user. (1996 Code § 30-80)
9-3-9: SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Responsibility Of User: The user shall be responsible for the
installation and maintenance of water service lines between the curb stop/meter
and the residence or business to be served.
   B.   Mobile Home Or Manufactured Housing Parks And Multiple-Family Units:
Mobile home or manufactured housing parks, duplexes and apartment houses shall
have separate water service lines for each family living unit. In addition,
should the multiple unit, including parking and yard areas, compose more than
one lot, there shall be a separate tap-on fee assessed for each lot.
   C.   Specifications And Installation Requirements:
      1.   The service lines between the water main and the curb stop/meter
shall be at least one inch (1") in diameter and shall be installed at a minimum
depth of thirty six inches (36"). The service lines shall be constructed of
either soft copper type K or type L.
      2.   A water service line from the curb stop/meter to the building shall
be as in subsection C1 of this section or one inch (1") minimum copper tube
size HDPE class 200, shall meet all requirements of the state department of
public health, and shall have no. 12 THHN tracer wire with four feet (4') of
wire coiled in the pit.
      3.   Service lines shall not be covered until they are inspected and
approved by a duly authorized water and sewer department representative. (1996
Code § 30-72; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-10: METER INSTALLATION; SWIMMING POOLS:
   A.   A user of city water shall permit the water meter to be located upon
his property. (1996 Code § 30-76)
   B.   In order for a property owner to be charged for water only that is used
to fill a swimming pool with no corresponding sewer charge, it will be
necessary to install a separate meter at the expense of the property owner.
(1996 Code § 30-68; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-11: EASEMENTS:
A user of city water shall give such easements and rights of way as are
necessary to the water and sewer department and shall allow access for the
purpose of construction, repair, maintenance and meter reading of the water
system. The necessity shall be determined by the commissioner of public health
and safety. (1996 Code § 30-77; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-12: EXTENSION OF MAINS:
   A.   Determination Of Necessity And Responsibility For Costs:
      1.   The city council shall first determine if an extension of a water
main is economically feasible based on the estimated costs of the extension and
the number of existing potential users that will use water along the extension.
      2.   If the extension is economically feasible, the water and sewer
department may install and pay the cost of the extension at the discretion of
the city council.
      3.   If the city council elects not to pay the cost of extending the
water main, then the person desiring city water service may install the
extension at his own expense upon written consent by the city council, and said
person may request a recapture agreement for his expenses, which agreement the
city council may approve solely in their discretion.
      4.   The city council is not required to pay for any extension to an
undeveloped area or to any area, such as a subdivision, being developed unless
there are sufficient existing residences or businesses to make the extension
economically feasible.
   B.   Extension By Other Than Water And Sewer Department:
      1.   The water and sewer department shall approve all plans and
specifications for any extension.
      2.   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
shall be reviewed and approved by the city council prior to approval by the
Illinois environmental protection agency.
      3.   Ownership of the water main extension and right of way easements as
are necessary shall be conveyed to the city for all extensions installed by any
person other than the water and sewer department. The water and sewer
department shall maintain the mains thereafter.
      4.   No water main extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the
city council, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the
proposed extension. (1996 Code § 30-78; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-13: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions:
    PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing food. (Ord. 1433, 3-30-2004; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Prohibitions: Except for such uses or methods in existence before the
effective date hereof, the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply
groundwater from within the corporate limits of the city by the installation or
drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 1433, 3-
30-2004)
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation. (Ord. 1433, 3-30-2004; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Memorandum Of Understanding With EPA: The mayor is hereby authorized
and directed to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Illinois
environmental protection agency (Illinois EPA) in which the city assumes
responsibility for tracking remediated sites, notifying the Illinois EPA of
changes to this section, and taking certain precautions when siting public
potable water supply wells. (Ord. 1433, 3-30-2004)
9-3-14: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   A.   Cross Connections Prohibited: A user of city water shall not connect
any water service line or any plumbing connected with the service line to any
other water source. (1996 Code § 30-75)
   B.   Cross Connection Control Program:
      1.   Program Adopted: The cross connection control regulations set out in
the ordinance codified herein are hereby adopted and enacted as the cross
connection control program of the city. (Ord. 1228, 5-5-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Amendments To Program: Any and all additions or amendments to such
cross connection control program, when passed in such form as to indicate the
intention of the city council to make the same a part thereof, shall be deemed
to be incorporated in such program so that reference to the cross connection
control program of the city shall be understood and intended to include such
additions and amendments.
      3.   Copy On File: A copy of such cross connection control program shall
be kept on file in the office of the city clerk, preserved in looseleaf form.
It shall be the express duty of the city clerk or someone authorized by said
clerk to insert in their designated places all amendments or ordinances which
indicate the intention of the city council to make the same a part of such
program when the same have been printed or reprinted in page form, and to
extract from such program all provisions which may from time to time be
repealed by the city council. The copy of such program shall be available for
all persons desiring to examine the same and shall be considered the official
"cross connection control program of Jerseyville, Illinois". (Ord. 1228, 5-5-
1998)
      4.   Penalty: Any violation of the program shall be punishable by a fine
of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day a violation of
any provision of the program or of any ordinance shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1228, 5-5-1998; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-15: TAMPERING WITH, DAMAGE TO SYSTEM:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper, adjust, damage or in any
manner interfere with the components or operation of the water system owned by
the city. The penalty for tampering, damaging, adjusting or in any manner
interfering with the components or operation of the city water system shall be
up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), payable to the water and sewer
department.
   B.   If the penalty imposed by subsection A of this section is not paid
within thirty (30) days after the amount is determined, the water and sewer
department shall shut off the water service. The amount of the penalty shall be
determined by the city council.
   C.   In addition to the penalty under subsection A of this section, a user
responsible for damages shall reimburse the water and sewer department for the
actual cost of repairing any damage arising from a malicious act or tampering.
   D.   Users shall report any known evidence of tampering, adjusting, damaging
or interfering with the operation of the water system, owned by the city, to
any member of the water and sewer department or the city council.
   E.   Any malicious act or damage to the water system that is not
appropriately punishable by this section shall be prosecuted under section
1-4-1 of this code. (1996 Code § 30-81; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-16: NONLIABILITY OF CITY FOR INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE:
All water service supplied by the water and sewer department shall be upon the
express condition that the water and sewer department shall not be liable, nor
shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury caused by reason of
shutting off of water for repair, relocation or expansion of any part of the
system, or for the failure of any part of the water system, or for
concentration of water for such purposes as firefighting, or the restricted use
of water. (1996 Code § 30-71)
9-3-17: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Unlawful Grounding Of Electrical Equipment To Water Lines: All new
electric services and/or any additional service to those now existing shall be
grounded to a driven ground. It shall be unlawful for any person to ground
electric equipment to water lines owned by the city. (1996 Code § 30-2)
   B.   Fluoridation Of Water Authorized: Until further directions are given by
the city council, the water and sewer department is authorized and directed to
provide the means and to proceed with the introduction of approximately 1.0 to
1.5 parts per million of fluorine to the water being distributed in the water
system of the city. (1996 Code § 30-65; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Backhoe Width For Excavations: It shall be unlawful for any person
excavating in any city street for any water main to use a backhoe over twenty
four inches (24") in width. (1996 Code § 30-79; amd. 2010 Code)
9-3-18: ARBITRATION OF DIFFERENCES; HEARING BOARD:
A hearing board shall meet as needed for arbitration of difference between the
superintendent and water users on matters concerning interpretation and
execution of the provisions of this chapter by the superintendent. The cost of
the arbitration will be divided equally between the city and the water user.
The hearing board membership shall consist of the mayor and city council
members. (Ord. 1307, 1-11-2000)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-4-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
9-4-4: Sewer Taps And Fees
9-4-5: Building Sewers And Connections
9-4-6: Extension Of Sewer Mains
9-4-7: Discharges Into Public System
9-4-8: Interceptors
9-4-9: Pretreatment
9-4-10: Control Manhole
9-4-11: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
9-4-12: Special Agreements
9-4-13: Protection Of System From Damage
9-4-14: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
9-4-15: Violation; Penalty
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), as outlined in Standard
Methods, expressed in milligrams per liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The sewer extension from the building drain or property drain
to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
DEPARTMENT: The water and sewer department.
GARBAGE DISPOSAL: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
mg/l: Milligrams per liter.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or groundwater.
ppm: Parts per million.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, company, limited liability
company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
political subdivision, or any other legal entity or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution, as outlined in "standard methods".
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the
public sewer, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any
dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer owned or controlled by the city or other public authority
and to which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and in which stormwater, surface
water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted and which is so designated
by the superintendent.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
SEWAGE PUMPING STATION: A subsidiary local structure and equipment for forcing
or lifting sewage to points where gravity flow can carry it to a sewage
treatment plant.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS (Sometimes Termed "SEWERAGE WORKS"): All facilities for
collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in concentration of
any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
STORM SEWER (Sometimes Termed "STORM DRAIN"): A sewer or drain which carries
storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of the water and sewer department of the
city or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (1996 Code § 30-92; amd. 2010 Code)
9-4-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited, in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrements, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges Into Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge into
any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the city, any sewage, industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as provided in section
9-4-3 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of sewage. (1996 Code § 30-96)
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required:
      1.   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or easement right of way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city
are hereby required, at their own expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within ninety
(90) days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public
sewer is within two hundred feet (200') (61 meters) of the property line.
      2.   No person shall use or occupy any property within the city in such a
manner as to create sewage thereon which is not discharged into the sewage
system if the property line is located within two hundred feet (200') of a
public sanitary sewer and the property has reasonable access to said sewer
constituting a part of the sewerage system or to which a sewer becomes
reasonably accessible. (1996 Code § 30-97)
9-4-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is
not available, under the provisions of subsection 9-4-2D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying
with the provisions of this section and the requirements of the state pollution
control board. (1996 Code § 30-101)
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permits Required:
         a.   City And County Permits: Before commencement of construction of a
private sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain written permits
from the county health department and building official, the latter of which
shall be approved by the water and sewer department. (1996 Code § 30-102)
         b.   State Permit: In addition to the permit from the building
official, or any county permit, whenever a state permit from the pollution
control board is required by state law, the permit shall be obtained prior to
the construction of the private disposal facilities. (1996 Code § 30-104)
      2.   Application For Permit; Fee:
         a.   Application for a permit from the building official, as required
by this section, shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information
as are deemed necessary by the building official. A permit and inspection fee
as established by ordinance or resolution on file in the office of the city
clerk shall be paid to the city clerk at the time the application is filed.
(1996 Code § 30-103; amd. 2010 Code)
         b.   Any person desiring a permit required by this section shall make
application therefor as set out in subsection B2a of this section and shall
then present the permit to the department office and receive a written receipt
for the charge or fee for the size of the tap to be made for the person who
made the application. However, anyone requesting sewer service outside the city
limits, must have a permit required by this chapter approved by the city
council. (1996 Code § 30-105)
   C.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposable system, as provided in subsection 9-4-2D of this chapter, the
building sewer shall be connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days, and the
private sewage system shall be cleaned of sludge, abandoned and filled with
clean gravel or dirt as appropriate. (1996 Code § 30-107)
   D.   City Treatment Of Septic Sludge:
      1.   The city may allow to be dumped at the city wastewater treatment
plant sludge cleaned from private sewer systems of properties within the city
limits. Such dumping must be under the supervision of the department. Charges
for said dumping are to be established by the city council. (1996 Code § 30-
108)
      2.   Unless specifically established herein, the city shall not allow any
person, firm or corporation to dump waste directly into the wastewater
treatment plant or indirectly into the wastewater or sewage collection system.
(1996 Code § 30-109)
9-4-4: SEWER TAPS AND FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: The city clerk shall have on file the most recent
ordinance setting forth the current residential sewer tap- on fees. (1996 Code
§ 30-106)
   B.   Payment Of Fees: A sewer tap-on fee for a residential, commercial or
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid a minimum of thirty (30) days
before the sewer tap is made. (Ord. 1242, 7-14-1998)
   C.   New Taps:
      1.   In lieu of the current established new tap fees, the fee for an
existing sewer tap shall be charged and the owner provides all labor, material
and equipment to install the service lateral from the existing sewer main.
      2.   The owner shall have all work performed by an approved contractor
that has on record with the city current liability insurance and builder's risk
insurance, naming the city as additional insured, for work performed on public
rights of way.
      3.   The contractor shall expose the sewer main allowing sufficient work
area and properly cut or shored for city workers to safely perform the tap to
the sewer main. The installed service shall remain open to inspection from the
main to the property line until such time that the service can be inspected by
a representative of the city.
      4.   When required, a street opening permit shall be obtained by the
owner, and all requirements of this permit shall remain in effect 1 .
      5.   This exception to the current established new tap fee structure
shall not be allowed on main extensions installed with service taps at the time
of main construction. New subdivision taps are to remain unchanged.
   D.   Taps Outside City: For sewer taps outside the city limits, all of the
above apply. (Ord. 1340, 5-29-2001; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
9-4-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required:
         a.   No unauthorized person shall use, uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the superintendent. (1996 Code §
30-112)
         b.   Anyone requesting sewer service outside the city limits must have
a permit required to be approved by the city council.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building permits: a) for residential and commercial service; and b) for service
to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or his
agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the superintendent.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent.
(1996 Code § 30-113)
      3.   Bond Requirements:
         a.   If the applicant for the building sewer permit does not have a
general bond on file with the city, the applicant shall furnish a corporate
surety bond in an amount one and one-half (11/2) times the cost of the
contemplated work for which the permit is to be issued.
         b.   Any experienced sewer builder or drain layer may furnish to the
city a continuing surety bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
to apply to all building sewer permits issued to such builder or to the
principals thereof for a term of one year from the date thereof, subject to
renewal from year to year, and such continuing bond may be accepted on behalf
of the city in lieu of a special bond to cover each permit issued during the
term of the bond.
         c.   Homeowners wishing to install their own building services are not
required to post a bond. Any person performing building sewer work for hire
shall post the bond. (1996 Code § 30-128)
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load. (1996 Code § 30-114)
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building, and the whole considered as one building sewer (except for sewer
connection charges accruing from such buildings or properties). (1996 Code §
30-121)
   C.   Old Building Sewers:
      1.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the superintendent, to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
      2.   All old sewers must be maintained by the owners until they meet city
specifications, and such specifications include, but are not restricted to,
proper venting at the property line and clay tile. Further, all old sewers from
the property line to the residence or business to be served must be four inch
(4") or six inch (6") pipe of materials as approved in subsection F of this
section. (1996 Code § 30-122)
      3.   If old sewer service needs replacing from the main to the property
line and is not of materials as approved in subsection F of this section, it
shall be replaced at the property owner's expense. Street opening is pursuant
to permit obtained from the city, and all digging and materials used must meet
city and state regulations 1 .
   D.   Service To More Than One Building On A Lot: If there is more than one
building on one lot and water and sewer service is desired for each building,
there will be a meter deposit and inspection charge for each service, and each
service shall have a shutoff valve. (1996 Code § 30-115)
   E.   Connection Methods And Procedures:
      1.   Connection Methods:
         a.   Building sewer connections with any sewer made by someone other
than the city shall be made only at manholes or other such junctions as may be
provided or designated by the city, and then only in such manner as directed.
The connection of the building sewer shall be made at a wye branch, if such
branch is available. The building service sewer shall generally enter the sewer
main or lateral by way of an existing wye. In the event of absence of the wye,
the connection to the sewer main or lateral shall be made by one of the methods
indicated below:
            (1)   Installation of a manhole.
            (2)   Circular saw cut of the sewer main by proper tools (sewer tap
machine or similar), and proper installation of hub wye saddle, in accordance
with manufacturer's recommendation. This method shall not be allowed when the
wye branch is larger than four inches (4") in diameter. The entire sewer main
in the location of the wye and the wye shall be encased in concrete.
            (3)   Using the pipe cutter only, neatly and accurately cut out
desired length of pipe for insertion of proper fitting. Remove both hub and
bell ends, or other compression couplings from wye branch fitting to allow the
wye branch to be inserted with no more than a total of one-half inch (1/2")
gap. Use rubber couplings, or similar couplings, with stainless steel clamps to
fasten the inserted fitting and hold it firmly in place. The entire section
shall then be encased in concrete having a minimum thickness of four inches
(4") and extending eight inches (8") beyond each joint.
         b.   If another method is desired, a detail shall be submitted for
review and approval by the city before the connection is made. Indiscriminate
breaking of the sewer main pipe is not allowed.
      2.   Inspection: After the wye branch has been inserted and jointed, and
before any additional fittings have been placed in the service line, the
installation shall be approved by the superintendent, or his authorized
representative. After approval is granted, the contractor shall encase the work
area as specified herein.
      3.   Backfill: Backfill shall be placed in accordance with the current
edition of "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois". In addition, any building sewers crossing any street or traveled
alley shall be backfilled with granular backfill material and compacted.
      4.   Concrete Encasement: When a riser is constructed and its height is
four feet (4') or more measured from the flow line of the sewer main to the top
of the riser pipe, the wye connection shall be encased in concrete to a height
of at least one foot six inches (1'6") above the flow line of the sewer main.
When the height of the riser is less than four feet (4') above the flow line of
the sewer main, the wye connection shall be backfilled to the top of the riser
pipe with carefully placed and compacted granular backfill. (1996 Code § 30-
118)
   F.   Construction Materials:
      1.   All building sewers shall be constructed of materials approved by
the city. Generally, all building sewers shall be constructed of the following
materials:
         a.   Cast or ductile iron pipe.
         b.   Extra strength vitrified clay pipe.
         c.   ABS solid wall plastic pipe (6 inch diameter maximum) SDR-26 or
23.5.
         d.   PVC solid wall plastic pipe SDR-35.
      2.   All pipe joints must be gastight and watertight and are subject to
the approval of the city. Transition joints from one pipe material to another
shall be made using fittings manufactured for such transitions. (1996 Code §
30-119)
   G.   Size, Slope, Depth And Alignment: The size, slope, depth and alignment
of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of the superintendent.
In no case shall the inside diameter of the building sewer be less than four
inches (4"). If six inch (6") diameter pipe is used, the slope shall not be
less than one- eighth inch (1/8") per foot. If four inch (4") or five inch (5")
diameter pipe is used, the slope shall not be less than one- fourth inch (1/4")
per foot. The depth of the building sewer shall be sufficient to afford
protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at a uniform grade and
in straight alignment, insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made
only with properly curved pipe and fittings, unless the break in alignment is
made at a manhole facilitating servicing. Installation shall be in accordance
with the current edition of "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois". (1996 Code § 30-120)
   H.   Elevation Of Building Sewers: Wherever possible, the building sewer
shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be
lifted and discharged to the building sewer. The proposed method for lifting
the sewage must be approved by the superintendent and shall be submitted with
the plans and specifications pursuant to subsection A2 of this section. (1996
Code § 30-123)
   I.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1996 Code § 30-126)
   J.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (1996 Code
§ 30-124)
   K.   Inspections: After the building sewer has been constructed in the
trench but before the sewer is backfilled, the applicant for the building sewer
permit shall notify the superintendent that the building sewer is ready for
inspection. If the sewer has been constructed properly, permission will be
given to backfill the trench. If the sewer construction is found to be
unsuitable, the permit applicant will correct the installation to meet city
requirements. (1996 Code § 30-125)
   L.   Fees And Charges: The city clerk shall have on file the most recent
ordinance setting forth the current sewer tap-on fees, inspection fees and
sewer rodding charges. (1996 Code § 30-115)
   M.   Liability For Costs And Expenses:
      1.   Owner: All costs and expenses incident to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner, except as
otherwise provided herein. The owner shall indemnify the city for any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer. (1996 Code § 30-116)
      2.   City: In making a sewer connection pursuant to this section, the
city shall make the tap and furnish the saddle and labor. (1996 Code § 30-117)
   N.   Future Testing By City: At any time after the installation of the
building sewer, the city may test the building sewer for violations of this
chapter. (1996 Code § 30-127)
   O.   Abandonment Of Sanitary Sewers: When any site to which sewer service
has been extended becomes abandoned and the building is destroyed or torn down,
the owner shall plug the sewer lateral to the property to prevent surface water
from running into the sanitary sewer. (1996 Code § 30-129)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
9-4-6: EXTENSION OF SEWER MAINS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, not an authorized employee of the city,
shall make any connection with, uncover, alter or disturb a city sewer, or open
any manhole, intercepting chamber or any appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit to do so from the superintendent, and no person
shall make any connection or opening into the sewer, the flow of which is
directly or indirectly discharged into any city sewer, without first obtaining
a written permit to do so from the superintendent. (1996 Code § 30-134)
   B.   Application For Permit; Plans And Specifications: Issuance of sewer
extension permits shall be initiated by an application for construction permit.
Said application shall be made on the forms provided by the Illinois
environmental protect agency (IEPA), shall be fully completed by the applicable
persons or parties, and shall be accompanied by a set of plans, specifications
and other information as may be required by the city. Plans and specifications
shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer, and approval thereof
must be obtained from the city and IEPA. (1996 Code § 30-135)
   C.   Bond Required: The applicant for the permit shall furnish a corporate
surety bond in an amount one and one-half (11/2) times the cost of the
contemplated work for which the permit is to be issued. (1996 Code § 30-138)
   D.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit; Resubmission; Annexation Required:
      1.   Issuance Or Denial; Resubmission:
         a.   If the application is in proper form, and the sewer extension
indicated therein appears to be in accordance with this chapter and all state
and federal requirements, the city shall issue the permit for construction of
the sewer. If otherwise, the application for permit shall be denied by the
city.
         b.   If the application is denied by the city, the reason or reasons
therefor shall be stated in writing, mailed or personally delivered to the
applicant. The applicant shall have the right to amend such application in
conformity with the reasons given for denial, and resubmit it to the city for
further consideration.
      2.   Annexation:
         a.   Provided, however, that in the event an application is filed for
city sewer service for a parcel of property outside the city limits, the said
property must be annexed into the city before the application may be approved
and city sewer service furnished. In the event the subject property is not
adjacent to the city or is prevented from annexation by intervening property
not owned by the applicant, applicant shall execute a preannexation agreement
that obligates applicant to annex subject property to the city at such time as
the property is capable of annexation. The annexation or execution of the
preannexation agreement must be approved by the city council before the
application may be approved and city sewer service furnished. Said
preannexation agreement is to be filed in the office of the county recorder of
deeds so as to put on notice all persons having an interest herein that this
agreement is intended to and does in fact run with the land and is thereby
binding upon each of the undersigned, their heirs, agents, assigns,
transferees, grantees, and successors.
         b.   Any costs or fees, including legal fees and filing fees, for the
applicant to annex or to prepare a preannexation agreement are to be the cost
of the applicant. (1996 Code § 30-136)
   E.   Expiration Of Permit: All permits issued under this section shall have
an expiration date of two (2) years after the date of issuance. Any sewers not
constructed prior to the date of expiration shall have a new application
submitted and a new permit issued prior to their construction. (1996 Code § 30-
137)
   F.   Construction Specifications: All sewer extensions shall be constructed
of the following materials:
      1.   Sewer pipe with diameters eight inches (8") and larger shall be one
of the following:
         a.   Extra strength vitrified clay pipe conforming to ASTM C700 with
joints conforming to ASTM C42.
         b.   ABS composite pipe conforming to ASTM D2680 with solvent weld
joints or O-ring rubber gasket joints as referenced in ASTM D-2680. (1996 Code
§ 30-139)
         c.   PVC sewer pipe SDR-35 conforming to ASTM D3033 or D3034 with
joint conforming to ASTM D3212. (1996 Code § 30-139; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Laterals and fittings from the sewer to the property line shall be
six inch (6") diameter, and:
         a.   Of comparable material to the sewer main for VCP and PVC pipe; or
         b.   For ABS pipe, use ABS solid wall pipe SDR-23.5 conforming to ASTM
D2751. (1996 Code § 30-139)
   G.   Supervision Of Construction; Record Plans: Construction of the sewers
shall be inspected under competent supervision supplied by a registered
professional engineer, and upon completion of construction, accurate detailed
plans as constructed (record drawings) shall be certified and submitted by the
professional engineer to the city before any applications for building sewer
permits are filed, all at the expense of the owner. These plans shall show all
elevations as installed as well as accurate measurements showing the locations
of service connections. The engineer shall also submit a certified statement
showing the source, place and volume of foreign waters. (1996 Code § 30-140)
   H.   Required Tests:
      1.   All sewers shall be subjected to:
         a.   A lamp test which shall provide that from one manhole to another,
at least one-half (1/2) of the pipe and area shall be visible.
         b.   Infiltration or exfiltration test with acceptable allowance of
two hundred (200) gallons per day per inch diameter per mile.
         c.   Under special circumstances, when approved by the city, air
pressure testing with allowance to be specified by the city.
      2.   Test results shall be certified to the city. When any sewer line
fails to pass the infiltration test, the exfiltration test, or an air pressure
test, the sewer line shall be televised in the presence of the city's
representatives to determine points of faulty construction. The owner shall
repair all defects, and the method of repair shall be subject to the approval
of the city. (1996 Code § 30-141)
   I.   Manholes: Manholes shall be installed at all changes in grade and/or
direction and at distances not greater than four hundred feet (400') apart. All
manhole covers shall be watertight and self-sealing, incorporating an O-ring
gasket. All covers shall have concealed pick holes. Where manhole covers may be
subjected to frequent and extreme submergence, additional watertightness shall
be ensured by using bolt down covers. (1996 Code § 30-142)
   J.   Compliance With Plumbing Code: The city has adopted the Illinois
plumbing code (see section
10-5-1 of this code), and all connections, installations and extensions
pursuant to this section and section
9-4-5 of this chapter shall be in accordance with the requirements of the
Illinois plumbing code; provided, however, that any provision of this chapter
which establishes a higher standard for the promotion and protection of the
health and safety of the people shall prevail. (1996 Code § 30-143)
9-4-7: DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Water Runoff; Storm And Combined Sewers:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the city, to a
storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet. (1996 Code § 30-148)
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: All disposal by any person into the sewer system
is unlawful except those discharges in compliance with federal standards
promulgated pursuant to the federal act and more stringent state and local
standards.
      1.   Discharges Into Storm Sewers: It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to connect or cause to be connected any drain carrying or
to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank, cesspool, or industrial
waste, or any fixture or device discharging polluting substances, to any
stormwater sewer or drain in the city. (1996 Code § 30-96)
      2.   Sanitary Sewers: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         a.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, to
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
         c.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
         d.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders. (1996 Code § 30-149)
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the city that such wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage
treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
city will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject
wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in
the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory
agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) (0°C) and one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for such materials as follows:
Waste Or Chemical  Concentration
Waste Or Chemical      Concentration
Boron                 1.0
Chromium (hexavalent) 5.0
Chromium (trivalent)  10.0
Copper                3.0
Cyanide               2.0
Iron                  15.0
Lead                  0.1
Nickel                3.0
Zinc                  2.0
Cadmium               2.0
Chlorine demand       30.0
Phenols               0.5
 
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies or
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations.
         h.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5. Any mercury or
any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 milligram per liter as Hg at any time
except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
         i.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 milligram per liter at any time
except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
         j.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate).
            (2)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
work.
            (4)   Unusual volume or flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined in section
9-4-1 of this chapter.
         k.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters. (1996 Code § 30-150)
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA
rules and regulations, subchapter D, water programs, part 128, pretreatment
standards, federal register volume 38, no. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973, and
amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the city, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the city may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of section
9-4-12 of this chapter.
      3.   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws. (1996 Code § 30-151)
9-4-8: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Interceptors Required: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
provided when, in the opinion of the superintendent of the water and sewer
department, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
ingredients harmful to the sewer system; except, that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters, dwelling units, or residences. All
interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent,
and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   B.   Materials For Interceptors; Maintenance: All grease, oil, and sand
interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of
withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction materials as approved by the superintendent, with a
basic minimum size requirement of one thousand (1,000) gallons with an inside
diameter of seventy two inches (72") and a base pad diameter of ninety six
inches (96"). A larger size interceptor may be required depending upon the
specific proposed use or application. They are to be waterproof and gastight
with a bolt down frame and an easily removable and secure cover with a cast
iron minimum opening of twenty one inches (21"), Neenah R-1916D or equivalent.
Prior to operation, the interceptor shall be inspected by the superintendent,
or his designated representative. Where installed, all grease, oil and sand
interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at the owner's expense, in
continuous and efficient operation at all times. All interceptors are also
subject to inspection under section
9-4-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 1564, 2-8-2011)
9-4-9: PRETREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalization facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (1996 Code § 30-151)
9-4-10: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each new industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when
required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole, together
with such necessary meters and other appurtenances, in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be installed
by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe
and accessible at all times. (1996 Code § 30-152)
9-4-11: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be stipulated by the city, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state, and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such
manner as prescribed. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements,
analyses and reporting. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves
the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside
laboratory service. (1996 Code § 30-154)
   C.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls for
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.) (1996 Code § 30-153)
9-4-12: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with the
user charge ordinance 1 , by the industrial concern. (1996 Code § 30-155)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2, article A of this title.
9-4-13: PROTECTION OF SYSTEM FROM DAMAGE:
No authorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part
of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be subject to
immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and any other applicable
criminal charges. (1996 Code § 30-160)
9-4-14: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Entry Powers; Limitations On Requested Information:
      1.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
the Illinois environmental protection agency, and the United States EPA,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
superintendent or his representative shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste
treatment.
      2.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   B.   Safety Precautions: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A of this section, the superintendent or
duly authorized employees of the city, the Illinois environmental protection
agency and the U.S. EPA shall observe all safety rules applicable to the
premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless for
injury or death to the city employees growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in subsection 9-4-11C of this chapter.
(1996 Code § 30-163)
9-4-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time For Compliance: Any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter, except section
9-4-13 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (1996 Code § 30-167)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit specified in the notice provided for in subsection A of this section
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. (1996 Code § 30-167; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation. (1996
Code § 30-168)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Building Official
10-1-2: Building Code
10-1-3: Building Permits And Inspections
10-1-4: Unsafe Buildings
10-1-5: Demolition Of Buildings
10-1-1: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby established the office of building
official for the city. (Ord. 1317, 6-13-2000)
   B.   Appointment; Term; Removal: The building official shall be appointed by
the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, and his term of
office shall not exceed that of the mayor. The building official may be removed
from office at any time by a vote of the majority of the city council members.
(Ord. 1317, 6-13-2000; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Qualifications: The city building official must be a certified building
inspector for residential and commercial building inspections by the
International Code Council. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
   D.   Enforcement Duties: It shall be the duty of the building official to
enforce all laws relating to the construction, alteration, removal and
demolition of buildings and structures.
   E.   Entry Powers: The building official, in the discharge of his official
duties and upon proper identification, shall have the authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour. (Ord. 1317, 6-13-2000)
   F.   Acting Building Official: During the temporary absence or disability of
the building official, the city engineer and/or the public safety officer shall
be the acting building official. (Ord. 1317, 6-13-2000; amd. 2010 Code)
10-1-2: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Code Adopted: A certain document, one copy of which is and has been on
file in the office of the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to
the effective date hereof, being marked and designated as the international
building code, 2006 edition, as published by the International Code Council, is
hereby adopted as the building code of the city for regulating and governing
the conditions and maintenance of all property, buildings and structures by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy, and use and the demolition of such
structures as herein provided; and providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of said building code on file in the office of the city
clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set
out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if
any, prescribed in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Amendments To Code: The following sections of the code adopted in this
section are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert "city of Jerseyville".
      Section 1612.3. Insert "city of Jerseyville".
      Section 1612.3. Insert "1985".
      Section 3410.2. Insert "February 10, 2008".
(Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
   C.   Definitions:
      1.   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the building code
adopted in this section, it shall mean the city.
      2.   Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the building code
adopted in this section, it shall be held to mean the attorney for the city.
(Ord. 1317, 6-13-2000)
   D.   Penalties: Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the
code adopted in this section shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-1-3: BUILDING PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Permits Required; Exemptions: Building permits are required for any
exterior alteration, remodeling or reroofing of a building, or addition to a
building, or the construction of a new building, or installation of roof-
mounted solar panels. In addition, a permit is also required for the
construction of all outbuildings, including, but not limited to, garages,
carports, patios, storage buildings (including prefabricated metal), swimming
pools, porches, and installation of free-standing standalone ground-mounted
solar panels. Permits are required even though the structure may be movable.
Permits are not required for structures of less than ten (10) square feet.
Permits are to be obtained through the building official.
   B.   Classes Of Building Permits: There shall be established the following
classes of building permits:
      1.   Class R: Class R building permits are required for erection of a new
dwelling or any alteration or addition to a dwelling and attached or detached
garages.
      2.   Class B: Class B building permits are required for erection of a new
retail, commercial or manufacturing structure or any alteration or addition
thereto.
      3.   Class U: Class U building permits are required for the installation
or construction of swimming pools (both aboveground and inground models),
carports completely open, demolition, gazebo, electric service upgrade, covered
patios, decks, fences, accessory buildings and reroofing of any building and
roof- mounted or free-standing standalone ground-mounted solar panels.
   C.   Building Permit Applications And Specification Sheets: Prior to
issuance of building permits, it is the joint duty of the property owner, the
construction contractor, and any subcontractor to complete and file with the
building official the building permit application and specification sheets, as
shown in subsection E of this section. The building official shall have five
(5) business days to review these documents and issue the permit or request
additional information or changes to the application or specifications.
   D.   Fees Established: There shall be established a schedule of fees for the
permits required by this chapter as shown on the respective permit fee
calculation forms in subsection E of this section.
   E.   Calculation Of Fees:
      1.   Class R, One- And Two-Family Building Permit:
      City of Jerseyville
      CLASS R
      ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY BUILDING PERMIT FEE CALCULATION
A. Type of Construction                                 Permit Number    
B. Cost of Construction per                      $59.00             
   Square Foot:
C. Square Feet of           Living Area (New          X $59.00 = $   
                            Construction
D. Square Feet of           Attached Garage           X 15.00  = $   
E. Square Feet of           Unattached Garage         X 18.00  = $   
F. 1Square Feet of          Unfinished Basement       X 11.00  = $   
G. Square Feet of           Finished Basement         X 19.00  = $   
H. Square Feet of           Remodeled Living Area     X 35.00  = $   
                                                       Value:   $   
State of Illinois Modifier                       Value  X 1.06   = $   
   
City of Jerseyville Building Permit Modifier            X 0.002  = $   
Occupancy Permit Fee (Final Inspection)                         + $15.00   
Late Application Fee                                            + $500.00   
Fine Up to $250.00                                              + $   
TOTAL BUILDING PERMIT FEE                                       = $   
 
Note:
   1.    Basement must be totally below grade.
      2.   Class B, Commercial, Multi-Family And Manufacturing Building Permit:
   City of Jerseyville
   CLASS B
   COMMERCIAL, MULTI-FAMILY AND MANUFACTURING
   BUILDING PERMIT FEE CALCULATION
Type Of Use:                                        Permit Number:    
Construction Type:    
Cost per Square Foot:                                    $   
Total Square Feet of All Floors:                       X    
Total Value                                            = $   
                                                         
State of Illinois Modifier                     X 1.06  =    
City of Jerseyville Building Permit Multiplier X 0.003 =    
Occupancy Permit Fee (Final Inspection)              + $15.00   
Late Application Fee                                 + $500.00   
Fine (up to $250.00)                                 + $   
TOTAL BUILDING PERMIT FEE                             = $   
 
      3.   Class U, Limited Building Permit:
         City of Jerseyville   115 E. Prairie, Jerseyville, IL 62052
         Building & Zoning Department   (618) 498-3312
      CLASS U
      LIMITED BUILDING PERMIT
      Permit #        Date Issued    
      Use Group "U": (Accessory Buildings; Electric Service Upgrade; Pool;
Deck; Fence; Covered Patios; Covered Porch; Demolition; Carport - completely
open; Gazebo; Reroofing; etc.)
      Type of improvement:    
      Owner:        Phone #    
      Address of improvement:    
      Requirements:
      Compliance with all applicable City of Jerseyville codes.
      Where applicable, sketch of improvement referencing location, size and
distance from property lines shall be provided.
      Notify Building Official for inspections as improvement progresses.
      Building Permit Fees are nonrefundable.
Type "U" Building Permit Fee:
$25.00   
Late Application Fee:
$25.00   
Fine (up to $100.00):
$   
Total:
$   
   
Signature owner/owner's representative    
Approved by:
   Building Official       Date
   F.   Inspections: There shall be seven (7) inspections as set out on the
following inspection schedule. It is the joint duty of the property owner and
the construction contractor to notify the building official at the appropriate
time in order for the inspections to be made as required by this section.
Failure to notify as required shall be considered a violation of this section.
City of Jerseyville   115 E. Prairie, Jerseyville, IL 62052
Building & Zoning Department   (618) 498-3312
   INSPECTION SCHEDULE
1.  Footings: prior to pouring concrete
   ( ) A. Check location against approved plot plan (setbacks)
   ( ) B. Check forms for width: 24" minimum
   ( ) C. Check forms for depth: 8" deep
   ( ) D. Drain tiles
   ( ) E. Check if footings are below frost line (40") to bottom of footing
   ( ) F. Virgin dirt
   ( ) G. Reinforcing steel 2 no. #4
 
2.  Basement and Foundation Wall Forms: prior to pouring concrete
   ( ) A. Height must extend 8" above grade (wood) and 4" above grade (brick)
   ( ) B. Thickness: 8"
   ( ) C. Reinforcing steel
         
2A. Footing Drains and Dampproofing:
   ( ) A. Check dampproofing
   ( ) B. Subsoil drains must be covered by gravel or rock
   ( ) C. Anchor bolts: 6' minimum distance; 1' from corners and openings
         
3.  Framing:
   ( ) A. Size of studs and trusses (truss plates)
   ( ) B. Stud spacing, doubling and corners
   ( ) C. Headers
   ( ) D. Firestops
   ( ) E. Ceiling and floor joists (check for alignment)
         
3A. Rough Electric:
   Inside Service
   ( ) A. Minimum Size of wire: 12 Gauge Copper.
   ( ) B. Minimum of 200 Amps For New Construction.
   ( ) C. Panel Box Equipped With Single Main Disconnect.
   ( ) D. 15 Amp Outlets Must be on 15 Amp Breaker.
   ( ) E. All Circuits Shall Be Legibly Labeled On Panel Box.
           Carbon Monoxide Alarm Locations: Every Dwelling Unit shall be
   ( ) F. equipped with a working carbon monoxide alarm on every level and
           within 15 feet of each room used for sleeping purposes. This also
           includes basement/cellar.
           Smoke Alarm Locations: In each sleeping room, outside of each
   ( ) G. sleeping area and on every level, including basement/cellar. Smoke
           Alarms shall be interconnected and hard wired with battery backup.
   Branch Circuits
   ( ) H. Kitchen: Limit of two G.F.I.C. per circuit that serve all countertop
           surfaces.
   ( ) I. Major Appliances on Dedicated Circuits (refrigerator, freezer,
           washer, furnace, microwave, dishwasher, sump).
   ( ) J. A/C Condensing Unit Must Have A Servicing Disconnect At Unit With
           Liquid Tight Flexible Tubing.
   ( ) K. Limit of 8 Devices Per Circuit.
   ( ) L. All Circuits Terminate In Approved Boxes With Covers.
   ( ) M. Ground Fault Protection (outside outlets, kitchen, bathrooms,
           unfinished basement, crawl space, garage).
   ( ) N. Arc-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection (on all bedroom circuits)
           210.12.
   ( ) O. Attic: All Circuits Junction Must Be Above Insulation.
   ( ) P. Attic: All Cables Shall Be Ran Within 4 Feet of The Outside Walls or
           protected form being damaged.
 
4.  Wallboard: before joints are taped
   ( ) A. Nailing schedule
   ( ) B. Water resistant wallboard for tub and shower
   ( ) C. Fire ratings and separations
         
5.  Final:
   ( ) A. All plumbing, electrical and mechanical equipment must be in
           operating condition
   ( ) B. Lot must be graded and drainage approved (gutters)
   ( ) C. Walks and driveway installed
   ( ) D. Plumbing certification must be turned in
   ( ) E. Electric panel box must be labeled
Failure to notify the Building Official of the necessity of an inspection and
failure to halt construction until the appropriate inspections are completed
shall result in a fine of $100.00, plus court costs for each of the property
owner and the construction contractor.
48 HOUR NOTICE IS REQUIRED FOR INSPECTIONS
 
   G.   Failure To Timely Obtain Permit; Stop Work Order; Late Application Fee:
      1.   In the event that a party fails to obtain a building permit in a
timely fashion as required by this section, the building official may issue a
stop work order and the property owner, or construction contractor, or the
applicable subcontractor, if any, shall pay, in addition to the established
building permit fees, a late application fee as follows:
         a.   Class R and B permits: Five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         b.   Class U permits: Twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   Any work completed prior to obtaining a building permit is subject
to removal or other proof of compliance with the applicable code at the expense
of the property owner, and/or construction contractor, and/or applicable
subcontractor, if any.
   H.   Penalties: Upon conviction, a person violating this section shall be
fined as follows:
      1.   Failure to obtain a class R or B building permit before starting
construction shall result in a fine of up to two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), plus court costs, for the property owner, and for the construction
contractor and for the applicable subcontractor, if any.
      2.   Failure to obtain a class U building permit before starting
construction shall result in a fine up to one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus
court costs, for the property owner, and for the construction contractor, and
for the applicable subcontractor, if any.
      3.   Failure to notify the building official of the necessity of an
inspection and failure to halt construction until the appropriate inspections
are completed shall result in a fine up to one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus
court costs, for the property owner, and for the construction contractor, and
for the applicable subcontractor, if any.
      4.   Each day any wilful violation of any provision of this section shall
continue, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 1317, 6-13-2000; amd. 2010
Code; Ord. 1808, 2-20-2024)
10-1-4: UNSAFE BUILDINGS:
Before the city council shall be allowed to demolish, repair or enclose a
dangerous or unsafe building within the city as set forth in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1, notice must be given to the owner of the building
fifteen (15) days before said demolition, repair or enclosure, and upon request
to the city council by majority vote of said council, the notice may be
extended for an additional fifteen (15) days. (Ord. 1317, 6-13-2000; amd. 2010
Code)
10-1-5: DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Permit Required: Before proceeding with the demolition of any
residential dwelling or demolition or removal of a trailer with utilities, a
permit shall be obtained from the building official.
   B.   Time Limit For Completion Of Work: At the time of issuing the
demolition permit, a time limit shall be set by the building official for the
completion of work.
   C.   Restoration Of Building Site: After the demolition or removal of the
building or trailer, the site shall be left in a clean, presentable and safe
condition with the below grade area, if any, properly filled in or protected.
No organic matter shall be placed in the fill space. The finished site shall be
in an easily maintainable condition.
   D.   Size Of Vacant Lot: Rebuilding on a vacant lot after demolition must
comply with current required building lot sizes as specified in the city zoning
ordinance, unless it is an original platted lot. (Ord. 1356, 10-30-2001; amd.
2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Code Adopted
10-2-2: Amendments To Code
10-2-3: Penalties
10-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is and has been on file in the office of
the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof, being marked and designated as the international residential code, 2006
edition, including appendix chapters G - swimming pools, spas and hot tubs, H -
patio covers, K - sound transmission (see international residential code
section R102.5, 2006 edition), as published by the International Code Council,
is hereby adopted as the residential code of the city for regulating and
governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-
family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more
than three (3) stories in height with separate means of egress as herein
provided, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms
of said residential code on file in the office of the city clerk are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
10-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-2-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the code adopted in this chapter are hereby revised:
Section R101.1. Insert "city of Jerseyville".
Table R301.2(1). Insert "Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria
 
Ground snow load Wind speedd  Seismic design Weatheringa Frost line Termitec
                 (mph)        categoryf                  depthb
20               90           C              Severe      40"        M/H
 
 
Winter design Ice barrier                Air freezing
tempe         underlayment Flood hazardg indexi       Mean annual tempj "
              requiredh
2             No           1985          1000         50
 
Section P2603.6.1. Insert "42 inches" and "8 inches".
Section P3103.1. Insert "12 inches" and "6 inches".
(Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-2-3: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the code being adopted in
this chapter shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Code Adopted
10-3-2: Definitions
10-3-3: Enforcement
10-3-4: Penalties
10-3-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is and has been on file in the office of
the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof, being marked and designated as the national electrical code (NFPA 70),
2005 edition, published by the National Fire Protection Association, is hereby
adopted as the electrical code of the city for regulating and governing the
construction and alteration of electrical wiring and apparatus in the
construction and alteration of all buildings or other structures in the city as
herein provided, and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions,
and terms of said electrical code on file in the office of the city clerk are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
chapter. (Ord. 1517, 5-20-2008)
10-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the electrical code adopted
in this chapter, it shall mean the city.
   B.   Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the electrical code
adopted in this chapter, it shall mean the attorney for the city. (1996 Code §
10-4)
10-3-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Official: It shall be the duty of the building official to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the city
relating to electrical wiring and apparatus in any building or structure in the
city. (1996 Code § 10-2)
   B.   Entry Powers: The building official, in the discharge of his official
duties and upon proper identification, shall have the authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour. (1996 Code § 10-3)
10-3-4: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the code adopted in this
chapter shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1517, 5-20-2008)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Code Adopted
10-4-2: Amendments To Code
10-4-3: Penalties
10-4-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is and has been on file in the office of
the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof, being marked and designated as the international mechanical code, 2006
edition, including appendix chapters A - combustion air openings chimney
connector pass-throughs (see international mechanical code section 101.2.1,
2006 edition), as published by the International Code Council, is hereby
adopted as the mechanical code of the city for regulating and governing the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
mechanical systems as herein provided, and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of said mechanical code on file in the office
of the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-4-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following section of the code adopted in this chapter is hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert "city of Jerseyville".
(Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-4-3: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the code adopted in this
chapter shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
CHAPTER 5
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Code Adopted
10-5-2: Definitions
10-5-3: Enforcement
10-5-4: Penalties
10-5-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are and have been on file in the
office of the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective
date hereof, being marked and designated as the Illinois plumbing code, 2004
edition, promulgated by the state of Illinois pursuant to 225 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 320/35, is hereby adopted as the plumbing code of the city pursuant to
225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 320/36, for regulating and governing the minimum
standards for the design, construction, installation, and alteration of
plumbing and the fixtures, materials, equipment, piping, and related apparatus
in the design, construction, installation, and alteration of all buildings or
other structures in the city as herein provided, and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions, and terms of said plumbing code on file in
the office of the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this chapter. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Wherever the word "municipality" is used in the plumbing code adopted
in this chapter, it shall mean the city.
   B.   Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the plumbing code
adopted in this chapter, it shall mean the attorney for the city. (1996 Code §
23-4)
10-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Official: It shall be the duty of the building official to
enforce all laws relating to the installation of plumbing in any buildings and
structures. (1996 Code § 23-2)
   B.   Entry Powers: The building official, in the discharge of his official
duties and upon proper identification, shall have the authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour. (1996 Code § 23-3)
10-5-4: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the code adopted in this
chapter shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
CHAPTER 6
FIRE CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Fire Code
10-6-1-1: Code Adopted
10-6-1-2 :Amendments To Code
10-6-1-3: Geographic Limits
10-6-2: Sprinkler Systems In Dwelling Units
10-6-3: Enforcement And Inspections
10-6-4:    Variances
10-6-5:    Fire Hydrants
10-6-6:    Penalties
10-6-1: FIRE CODE:
10-6-1-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one (1) copy of which is, and has been on file in the
office of the City Clerk of City of Jerseyville for more than thirty (30) days
prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified herein, being marked and
designated as the 2018 International Fire Code, including Appendices B Fire-
Flow Requirements for Buildings, C - Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution, D
- Fire Apparatus Access Roads, E - Hazard Categories, F - Hazard Ranking, G -
Cryogenic Fluids-Weight and Volume Equivalents, I - Fire Protection Systems-
Noncompliant Conditions, (see International Fire Code Part Vll - Appendices,
2018 edition) as published by the International Code Council (ICC), be and is
hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the City of Jerseyville, in the State of
Illinois for regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property
from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of
hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to
life or property in occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
said Fire Code on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of
Jerseyville are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if
fully set out in this code, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in Section 10-6-1-2 or other sections of this
chapter. (Ord. 1792, 7-11-2023)
10-6-1-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following section of the code adopted is hereby revised:
   Section 101 .1 Insert “City of Jerseyville”
   Delete Section 105 “Permits” in its entirety.
   Delete Section 106 “Fees” in its entirety.
   Delete Section 109 “Board of Appeals” in its entirety. (Ord. 1792, 7-11-
2023)
10-6-1-3: GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS:
The geographic limits referred to in certain sections of the 2018 International
Fire Code are hereby established as follows:
   Section 5704.2.9.6.1 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and
Class Il liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited): “In
all zoning districts, except in an M-2 or M-3 Manufacturing District where it
is allowed.”
   Section 5706.2.4.4 (geographic limits in which the storage of Class I and
Class Il liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited): “In all zoning
districts, except in an in M-2 or M-3 Manufacturing District where it is
allowed.”
   Section 5806.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of flammable
cryogenic fluids in stationary containers is prohibited): “In all zoning
districts, except in an M-2 or M-3 Manufacturing District where it is allowed.”
   Section 6104.2 (geographic limits in which the storage of liquefied
petroleum is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested
areas): “In all zoning districts, except in an M-2 or M-3 Manufacturing
District where it is allowed.” (Ord. 1792, 7-11-2023)
10-6-2: SPRINKLER SYSTEMS IN DWELLING UNITS:
All new buildings constructed as multiple-family dwellings, including all
duplexes or stacked units, shall be required to install water sprinkler systems
in kitchens, sleeping areas, and all common ingress and egress areas, such as
hallways and stairwells, used as the principal means of entering and leaving
the dwellings. Sprinkler systems shall meet the requirements of NFPA 13 or NFPA
13R, which are hereby adopted by reference thereto, and three (3) copies of
which sections are on file in the office of the city clerk. Installation shall
be made in accordance with a certified engineered sprinkler system plan, a copy
of which shall be submitted to the building official with the building permit
application. (Ord. 1440, 6-8-2004; amd. 2010 Code)
10-6-3: ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS:
   A   This fire code shall be enforced by the Fire Chief and the Jerseyville
Fire Department, under the Fire Chief’s supervision and direction. The Fire
Chief may do inspections of property and authorize members of the fire
department to do inspections from time to time as needed for such enforcement.
   B.   Records of all systems inspections, testing, and maintenance required
by the Jerseyville Code of Ordinances, in addition to being maintained on
premise for a period of three (3) years from the date of the inspection,
testing, or maintenance, shall be submitted electronically to the Jerseyville
fire chief and public safety officer through a third-party inspection reporting
system, known as "The Compliance Engine" created by Brycer, LLC.
   C.   Code regulations requiring inspection, testing, and maintenance include
but are not limited to the following:
      2018 IFC TABLE 901.6.1 - Fire Protection System Maintenance
      Standards Sprinkler System (Dry & Wet)
      Dry-chemical extinguishing systems - NFPA 17 8.3.1 (Semi-annually)
      Wet-chemical extinguishing systems - NFPA 17A 8.3.3 (Semi-annually)
      Water-based fire protection systems - NFPA 25 5.2.1.1 (Annually)
      Water-mist systems - NFPA 750 15.1.1 to NFPA 25 5.2.1.1 (Annually)
      Special Suppression System
      Clean-agent extinguishing systems - NFPA 2001 11.3 (Semi-annually) & 11.4
(Annually)
      Aerosol fire-extinguishing systems - NFPA 2010 9.3.3 (Annually)
      Carbon dioxide fire-extinguishing system - NFPA 12 4.8.3.2 (Annually)
      Halon 1301 fire-extinguishing systems - NFPA 12A 6.1.1 (Semi-annually)
      2018 IFC 910.5.1 - Smoke and heat vents
      Hood Suppression System - NFPA 204 12.4.3.3.1 (Semi-annually)
      Commercial Kitchen Exhaust Cleaning - NFPA 204 12.4.3.3.1 (Semi-annually)
      2018 IFC 907.8 - Inspection, testing and maintenance
      Fire alarm systems - NFPA 72 14.4.3.2 (Annually)
      2018 IFC 507.5 - Fire Hydrant Systems
      All Hydrants - NFPA 25 7.3.2 (Annually)
      Private Fire Service Mains
      Jerseyville City Code 10-6-5B - Privately Owned Fire Hydrants (Annually)
      NFPA 25 Table 7.2.1 (Annually)
      Automatic Closing Fire Assemblies - NFPA 80 5.2.4.1 (Annually) (Ord.
1792, 7-11-2023; amd. Ord. 1810, 4-30-2024)
10-6-4: VARIANCES:
The Fire Chief shall have power to grant variances from any of the provisions
of the fire code upon application in writing by an owner or lessee of property
within the City, or their duly authorized agent, stating the reasons for the
variance request and the facts supporting the difficulty in complying with the
code. The Fire Chief may grant the variance if the Fire Chief determines that
no personal or public safety issues related to life or property of the
applicant or any citizen of the City will result from the granting of the
variance, or the risk is minimal, and balancing and considering the hardship to
the applicant to comply versus the benefit to the public safety. (Ord. 1792, 7-
11-2023)
10-6-5: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Installation: Upon the construction of any building, fire hydrants
where required shall be immediately connected and maintained in an operative
condition as soon as water mains have been installed at the construction site.
Access to all fire hydrants by firefighting apparatus shall be provided and
maintained.
   B.   Privately Owned Fire Hydrants:
      1.   It shall be the duty of owner, lessee, or occupant of any property
requiring fire hydrants, if those fire hydrants are not owned by Illinois-
American Water Company, to have each such hydrant painted red in color and to
maintain and keep each such hydrant in proper working order.
      2.   It shall be the duty of owner, lessee{'}'} or occupant of any
property requiring fire hydrants, if those fire hydrants are not owned by
Illinois-American Water Company, to have each such hydrant annually inspected
and maintained by a licensed plumber to verify and insure its proper operation.
Inspection and maintenance shall include, at a minimum, proper operation,
adequate water flow (gallons per minute), adequate pressure, condition of
threads and caps, lubrication of threads, checking for and repairing leaks, and
filling oil reservoir, where applicable. The plumber shall submit a written
report which shall be maintained on site by the owner, lessee, occupant, agent,
representative, or employee of the owner, and shall be made available upon
request of the fire chief or the fire chief’s designee. (Ord. 1792, 7-11-2023)
10-6-6: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of the provisions of this Chapter 6 shall be as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of the Jerseyville City Code. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each day on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 1792, 7-
11-2023)
CHAPTER 7
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Code Adopted
10-7-2: Amendments To Code
10-7-3: Compliance With Provisions
10-7-4: Penalties
10-7-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is and has been on file in the office of
the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof, being marked and designated as the international fuel gas code, 2006
edition, including appendix chapters A - sizing and capacity of gas piping, B -
sizing of venting systems serving appliances equipped with draft hoods,
category 1 appliances, and appliances listed for use with type B vents, C -
exit terminals of mechanical draft and direct-vent venting systems, D -
recommended procedure for safety inspection of an existing appliance
installation (see international fuel gas code section 101.3, 2006 edition), as
published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the fuel gas
code of the city for regulating and governing fuel gas systems and gas-fired
appliances as herein provided, and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of said fuel gas code on file in the office of the city
clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set
out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if
any, prescribed in section
10-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-7-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following section of the code adopted in this chapter is hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert "city of Jerseyville".
(Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-7-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install or maintain fuel gas on any
private property in the city, unless the person shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter before the fuel gas supply is installed and
maintained. (1996 Code § 13-1; amd. 2010 Code)
10-7-4: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the code adopted in this
chapter shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
CHAPTER 8
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Code Adopted
10-8-2: Amendments To Code
10-8-3: Penalties
10-8-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is and has been on file in the office of
the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof, being marked and designated as the international energy conservation
code, 2006 edition, as published by the International Code Council, is hereby
adopted as the energy conservation code of the city for regulating and
governing energy efficient building envelopes and installation of energy
efficient mechanical, lighting and power systems as herein provided, providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor, and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of said energy
conservation code on file in the office of the city clerk are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-8-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-8-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following section of the code adopted in this chapter is hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert "city of Jerseyville".
(Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-8-3: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the code adopted in this
chapter shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
CHAPTER 9
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Code Adopted; Amendments And Penalties
10-9-3: Compliance With Provisions
10-9-4: Complaint, Inspection And Enforcement Procedures
10-9-5: Appeals
10-9-6: Transfer Of Ownership; Violations To Be Abated
10-9-7: Registration Of Agents
10-9-8: Designation Of Unfit Dwellings; Condemnation
10-9-9: Violation; Penalty
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The general purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety,
comfort and the general welfare of the people of the city. These general
objectives include, among others, the following specific purposes:
   A.   To protect the character and stability of the city.
   B.   To establish minimum standards for cooking, heating and sanitary
equipment necessary to the health and safety of occupants of buildings.
   C.   To establish minimum standards for light and ventilation necessary to
health and safety.
   D.   To prevent the overcrowding of dwellings and neighborhoods, to the end
that existing buildings, streets, schools, parks and other private and public
facilities be preserved.
   E.   To provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings and to prevent the spread of blight.
   F.   To preserve the value and quality of land and buildings throughout the
city. (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001)
10-9-2: CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Adoption Of Code: A certain document, one copy of which is and has been
on file in the office of the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to
the effective date hereof, being marked and designated as the international
property maintenance code, 2006 edition, as published by the International Code
Council, is hereby adopted as the property maintenance code of the city for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and
the demolition of such structures as herein provided, and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of said property maintenance code
on file in the office of the city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   Amendments To Code: The following sections of the code adopted in this
section are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert "city of Jerseyville".
      Section 302.4. Insert "8 inches".
      Section 304.14. Insert "June 1 to September 15".
      Section 602.3. Insert "September 15 to May 31".
      Section 602.4. Insert "September 15 to May 31".
   C.   Penalties: Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the
code adopted in this section shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-9-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: Every rental dwelling, dwelling unit, dormitory,
or rooming unit premises, including accessory structures, shall conform to the
requirements of this chapter, irrespective of the zoning classification of such
building.
   B.   Existing Structures:
      1.   Any building constructed prior to the effective date hereof shall be
accepted as being in compliance as of said effective date.
      2.   Any alteration, repairs, or expansion of any such property after the
effective date hereof must conform to the requirements of this chapter or any
other existing ordinance of the city, whichever is more stringent. (Ord. 1350,
9-4-2001)
      3.   Any complaint received by the building official regarding any
building constructed prior to the effective date hereof shall be investigated
as described in subsection 10-9-4A of this chapter. (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001; amd.
2010 Code)
10-9-4: COMPLAINT, INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Written Complaint; Inspection:
      1.   In the event the occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit in which he resides, makes a written complaint of violation of this
chapter, the building official or public safety officer, when applicable, shall
conduct an inspection of the property in question. Said inspection shall be
limited to the specified alleged violation and not a general inspection of the
entire property. (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Inspections shall be made within three (3) business days of the
receipt of the complaint unless the alleged violation presents an immediate
public health or safety hazard.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   If a violation does exist, the owner or his agent will be sent a
letter to correct the violation. The letter shall inform the owner/agent of the
nature of the violation and set a reasonable date by which the violation must
be corrected. If the deficiency is not corrected within the time allowed, the
owner shall be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001)
      2.   If, during the inspection, the building official or public safety
officer observes an unreported violation of this chapter, he must also inform
the owner/agent of this violation as previously described.
      3.   In the event the violation is clearly visible to the public from the
roadway, the building official or public safety officer must also advise the
owner/agent of that violation as previously described.
   C.   Notice Of Violations:
      1.   Whenever the building official or public safety officer determines
there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any
provision of this chapter, he shall give notice of such alleged violation to
the person or persons responsible therefor. Such notice shall: (Ord. 1350, 9-4-
2001; amd. 2010 Code)
         a.   Be put in writing.
         b.   Include a statement of the reasons it is being issued.
         c.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it
requires.
         d.   Be served upon the owner/agent, or the occupant, as the case may
require; provided, that such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon
such owner/agent or upon such occupant if a copy thereof is served upon him
personally, or if a copy thereof is sent by registered mail to his last known
address, or if a copy thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or about the
dwelling affected by the notice, or if he is served with such notice by any
other method authorized or required under the laws of the state.
      2.   Such notice may contain an outline of remedial action, which if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter and with
rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto. (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001)
   D.   Clarification Of Violation: After service of such notice, the building
official or public safety officer shall accompany the owner/agent to the
property if clarification of the violation is needed. (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001;
amd. 2010 Code)
10-9-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision
of the building official, city engineer, or public safety officer to the city
planning and zoning board.
   B.   Application For Appeal: An application for appeal shall be based on:
      1.   A claim that the true intent of this chapter or the rules legally
adopted hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted.
      2.   A claim that the provisions of this chapter do not fully apply.
      3.   A showing that an acceptable equivalent form of construction is to
be used.
   C.   Time Limit For Filing Appeal: The time for filing an appeal shall be
the same time given for the repair or required action to have been completed,
or if no repair or action is involved, within twenty one (21) days of the
issuance of the decision upon which the appeal is based.
   D.   Deposit: When filing an appeal, there shall be a deposit of seventy
five dollars ($75.00). If the board overrides the decision of the building
official, city engineer, or public safety officer, the deposit shall be
refunded.
   E.   Open Hearing: All hearings before the board shall be open to the
public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the building official,
city engineer, or public safety officer and any person whose interests are
affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
   F.   Procedures Adopted: The board shall adopt and make available to the
public through the city clerk, procedures under which hearings will be
conducted. The procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of
evidence, but shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
   G.   Decision Of Board: The board may recommend that the city council modify
or reverse the decision of the building official, city engineer, or public
safety officer by a concurring vote of at least four (4) members of the board.
   H.   Recommendation To City Council: The minutes of the board shall be
forwarded to the city council with the board's recommendation. Copies shall be
furnished to the appellant and to the building official, city engineer, or
public safety officer.
   I.   Action On Recommendation: The building official, city engineer, or
public safety officer shall take immediate action on the recommendation, upon
approval of the city council.
   J.   Other Hearings: Any clarification of this chapter that does not pertain
to violations written by the building official, city engineer, or public safety
officer may also be addressed by the city planning and zoning board. (Ord.
1582, 3-20-2012)
10-9-6: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; VIOLATIONS TO BE ABATED:
   A.   If there are any major violations of this chapter, they must be abated
before the dwelling is sold, leased or otherwise transferred. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner, seller, lessor, or transferor to abate such
violations; provided, however, that if the owner, seller, lessor, or transferor
first provides a true and correct copy of all such violation notices to the
purchaser, transferee, or lessee and thereafter obtains the purchaser's,
transferee's or lessee's written undertaking to abate such violations, then the
owner, seller, lessor, or transferor shall not be responsible for abatement of
such violations. Upon filing a copy of said written undertaking, signed by the
party to be so bound, with the building official, obligation to abate such
violations shall then be the responsibility of the said purchaser, transferee,
or lessee, who shall be bound thereby without further notice.
   B.   This section shall not apply to transfers of real estate wherein the
transferee notified the building official in writing of his intent to demolish
any buildings located thereon within ninety (90) days of the transfer of such
real estate and does so demolish the buildings within the said period of time.
The building official may, for good cause, extend the said period of time for
one additional period of ninety (90) days. (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001; amd. 2010
Code)
10-9-7: REGISTRATION OF AGENTS:
Owners of residential property in the city, who are not residents of the state
nor live within twenty five (25) miles of the city, shall designate an agent
who shall either reside or have a place of business within twenty five (25)
miles of the city as authorized to accept service of notice under the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the owner's responsibility to register
said agent with the building official. (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001; amd. 2010 Code)
10-9-8: DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS; CONDEMNATION:
The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of such unfit dwellings
or dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements:
   A.   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation and shall be
so designated and placarded by the code official:
      1.   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of
the occupants or the public.
      2.   One which lacks illumination, ventilation, or sanitary facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or the public.
      3.   One which, because of its general condition or location, is
unsanitary or otherwise dangerous to the health or safety of the occupants or
the public.
   B.   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation
and so designated and posted shall be vacated within a reasonable time as
ordered by the code official. Failure to comply with such vacation order shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   C.   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and posted as
unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
written approval is secured from the code official, and such placard is
removed. The code official shall remove such placard whenever the defect or
defects upon which the condemnation was based have been eliminated.
   D.   No person shall deface or remove the placard from the condemned
dwelling or dwelling unit except as provided in subsection C of this section.
(Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001)
10-9-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person who maintains, as occupant or owner, any
dwelling, dwelling unit or premises which does not comply with the requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
1350, 9-4-2001)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues, up to a maximum of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 1350, 9-4-2001; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 10
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
10-10-1: Code Adopted
10-10-2: Amendments To Code
10-10-3: Penalties
10-10-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is and has been on file in the office of
the city clerk for more than thirty (30) days prior to the effective date
hereof, being marked and designated as the international existing building
code, 2006 edition, as published by the International Code Council, is hereby
adopted as the existing building code of the city for regulating and governing
the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of
existing buildings, including historic buildings, as herein provided, and
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor, and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of said existing
building code on file in the office of the city clerk are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
10-10-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-10-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the code adopted in this chapter are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert "city of Jerseyville".
   Section 1301.2. Insert "February 10, 2008".
(Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
10-10-3: PENALTIES:
Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the code adopted in this
chapter shall be as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1513, 1-29-2008)
CHAPTER 11
MOBILE HOMES 1
SECTION:
10-11-1: Definitions
10-11-2: Location In Parks Or To Replace Existing Mobile Homes Only
10-11-3: Permit Requirements
10-11-4: Lot Dimensions
10-11-5: Use Restrictions
10-11-6: Utilities Connections
10-11-7: Installation And Maintenance Requirements
10-11-8: Violations; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 11, chapter 6, article F of this code.
10-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions of all terms used in this chapter shall be the same as those of
the International Code Council (ICC) adopted by the city in this title. (Ord.
1385, 10-29-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
10-11-2: LOCATION IN PARKS OR TO REPLACE EXISTING MOBILE HOMES ONLY:
No mobile home shall be placed in the city after the effective date hereof,
except in a mobile home park or as a replacement of an existing mobile home.
(Ord. 1385, 10-29-2002)
10-11-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place or replace a mobile home on any lot in the city, in or out of a mobile
home park, without first obtaining a permit therefor as prescribed in this
chapter, and such permit will not be granted if the mobile home does not have a
minimum size of eight hundred (800) square feet, or if the mobile home is older
than six (6) years from the date of permit application. No permit shall be
granted to any person outside a mobile home park who does not own and occupy
said mobile home and does not own or is purchasing the site on which said
mobile home is located. (Ord. 1385, 10-29-2002)
   B.   Availability Of Application And Other Forms: The building official
shall provide the petition, permit application, and other necessary forms.
   C.   Application For Permit: After the requirements of this chapter are met,
the person desiring a permit required by this chapter shall apply therefor to
the building official.
   D.   Permit Fee: The permit fee shall be based on the number of square feet
in the said mobile home, at a rate set by the city council 1 . The permit fee
is payable upon making application to the building official, and will be
refunded if the application is denied.
   E.   Permits For Mobile Home Replacements: No replacement permit shall be
granted to anyone who has not owned said existing mobile home for a period of
at least six (6) months prior to the application for a permit. Any mobile home
which is unoccupied for a total of one hundred twenty (120) days in any twelve
(12) month period shall be declared a nuisance under title 5, chapter 1 of this
code. An exemption to this subsection may be sought through a hearing of the
city zoning board. (Ord. 1385, 10-29-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 10-1-3D of this title.
10-11-4: LOT DIMENSIONS:
   A.   Individual Site: As to a mobile home on a lot outside a mobile home
park, a mobile home must be placed on a lot at least fifty feet by one hundred
feet (50' x 100') in dimension. All building setback lines must be maintained
for mobile homes according to the regulations set forth for dwellings within
the same residential zoning district.
   B.   Mobile Home Parks: In mobile home parks, the minimum site on which a
mobile home may be located shall be as stated in title 11, chapter 6, article F
of this code. (Ord. 1385, 10-29-2002; amd. 2010 Code)
10-11-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
No mobile home permit can be issued for a use other than residential use, and
no existing mobile home can be used for any use other than a residential use.
(Ord. 1385, 10-29-2002)
10-11-6: UTILITIES CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Water And Sewer: Each separate mobile home shall have separate water
and sewer hookups. All mobile homes which are located within the city shall be
connected to city water and sewers where city water and sewer mains are
available, and if no sewer mains are available, the mobile homes shall be
connected to an acceptable septic tank.
   B.   Electricity: All mobile homes shall be connected to electricity. (Ord.
1385, 10-29-2002)
10-11-7: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Installation Requirements; Skirting: All new or replacement mobile
homes shall be installed in accordance with manufacturer's specifications. The
skirting on all new or replacement mobile homes not in a mobile home park shall
be constructed of concrete block or poured concrete, a minimum of four inches
(4") wide. Such skirting shall be placed on a footing at least thirty inches
(30") beneath ground level and a minimum of eight inches (8") wide. If the
skirting is to be load bearing, it shall be constructed in accordance with
foundation construction specifications in chapter 1 of this title. All damaged
or substandard skirting shall be replaced within thirty (30) days of receipt of
notice from the building official. All mobile homes inside a mobile home park
must be skirted using skirting materials specifically manufactured for such
purpose and approved by the building official.
   B.   Removal Of Wheels And Tongue: All wheels and tongues of the mobile home
shall be removed immediately upon installation of the mobile home, and if not
so removed, notice will be sent by the building official where removal will be
required within thirty (30) days of receipt of said notice.
   C.   Maintenance Required: All mobile homes and skirting or perimeter
foundation are to be maintained in a neat and orderly manner, and not allowed
to deteriorate.
   D.   Violations; Revocation Of Permit: If any of the requirements of this
section are not completed within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice from the
building official, the permit is automatically revoked, and the placement of
said mobile home becomes a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 1385, 10-29-2002;
amd. 2010 Code)
10-11-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. Each
day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any mobile home which is found to be in violation of
this chapter for a period of thirty (30) days shall be deemed a nuisance under
title 5, chapter 1 of this code. Removal of any mobile home in violation of
this chapter shall be conducted in accordance with title 5, chapter 1 of this
code. (Ord. 1385, 10-29-2002)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Application And Interpretation Of Provisions
 
Notes
  1. ORDINANCE NO. 1582
   
  An ordinance adopting and enacting a new title 11, as a recodified zoning
  code for the city of Jerseyville, Illinois.
   
  Section 1. This re-codified zoning code, consisting of title 11, chapters 1
  through 13, is hereby adopted and enacted as the "Jerseyville Zoning Code,"
1 and hereby repeals in its entirety the prior zoning code known as "ordinance
  no. 402" and all prior amendments thereto.
   
  Section 2. This title 11, chapters 1 through 13 shall be part of the newly
  re-codified Jerseyville city code previously adopted and enacted by the city
  council by ordinance no. 1563, passed and approved on January 11, 2011.
   
  Passed and Approved this 20th day of March, 2012.
   
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the JERSEYVILLE ZONING
CODE. (1996 Code app. A § 1)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people;
   B.   To divide the city into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business, manufacturing
and other specific uses;
   C.   To protect the character and the stability of the residential, business
and manufacturing areas within the city and to promote the orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
   D.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   E.   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas, and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air to protect the public health;
   F.   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within such areas;
   G.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform therein;
   H.   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   I.   To prevent additions to, or alterations or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
   J.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading of commercial vehicles;
   K.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   L.   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
   M.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city;
   N.   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming uses of land, buildings
and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value of
desirable development in each district; and
   O.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein. (1996 Code app. A § 2)
11-1-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
for any purpose other than is permitted in the district in which the building
or land is located. (1996 Code app. A § 5.1)
   B.   No application for a building permit or other permit or license, or for
a certificate of occupancy, shall be approved by the administrative officer of
this title, and no permit or license shall be issued by any other city
department which would authorize the use or change in use of any land or
building contrary to the provisions of this title or the erection, moving,
alteration, enlargement or occupancy of any building designed or intended to be
used for a purpose or in a manner contrary to the provisions of this title.
(1996 Code app. A § 5.2)
   C.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare. The adoption of this
title is not intended to amend or repeal any ordinance, rules or regulations
previously adopted and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this
title; nor is it intended by the adoption of this title to interfere with or
abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties;
except, that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger open
spaces than are imposed or required by such other ordinances or such easements,
covenants or other agreements, the provisions of this title shall control.
(1996 Code app. A § 16; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Nothing in this title shall prevent the continuance of the present
occupancy or lawful use of any existing building or zoning lot except as may be
necessary for the safety of life and property, and except as provided in this
section and chapter 5 of this title. (1996 Code app. A § 14.2-4)
   E.   Should any section, clause or provision of this title be declared by
the courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of the title
as a whole or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid.
(1996 Code app. A § 19)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Scope
11-2-2: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-3: Definitions
11-2-1: SCOPE:
In the construction of this title, the rules and definitions contained in this
chapter shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. (1996 Code app. A § 3)
11-2-2: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "plot", "piece" and "parcel";
the word "building" includes all other structures of every kind regardless of
similarity to buildings; and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases
"arranged for", "designed for", "intended for", "maintained for" and "occupied
for". (1996 Code app. A § 3.1)
11-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE:
   A.   One which:
      1.   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
and
      2.   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building
or principal use served; and
      3.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants
of the principal building or principal use served; and
      4.   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served, with the single exception of such accessory off street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
   B.   An "accessory use" includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   A children's playhouse, garden house and private greenhouse.
      2.   A garage, shed, building or portable building for domestic storage.
      3.   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot
with any retail service or business use, unless such storage is excluded by the
district regulations.
      4.   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities on
the same lot or parcel of ground with such activities, unless such storage is
excluded by the district regulations.
      5.   Off street motor vehicle parking areas, and loading and unloading
facilities.
      6.   Signs (other than advertising signs) as permitted and regulated in
each district incorporated in this title.
      7.   Carports.
      8.   Public utility, communication, electric, gas, water and sewer lines,
their supports and incidental equipment.
      9.   Roof-mounted and free-standing standalone ground- mounted solar
panels.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land having an area of one acre or more which
has not been subdivided by metes and bounds or platted.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT OR FACILITY: Facilities operating as
an adult-use cannabis cultivation center, craft grower, processing
organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization, or transporting
organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (410
ILCS 705/1-10), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed adult-use cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (410 ILCS 705/1-10),
as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed adult-
use cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, cannabis paraphernalia or
related supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis
patients and caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. (410 ILCS
705/1-10), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (410 ILCS 705/1-10), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (410 ILCS 705/1-10), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of an adult-use
cannabis business establishment or a community college licensed under the
Community College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (410 ILCS 705/1-10), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
AGRICULTURE: Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of farm
or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, or
animal/poultry husbandry. The term "agriculture" encompasses the farmhouse and
accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural
activities.
AIRPORT AND AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD: Any landing area, runway or other facility
(including heliports) designed, used or intended to be used, either publicly or
privately, by any person or persons for the landing and taking off of aircraft,
including all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars
and other necessary buildings and open space.
AIRPORT, MAJOR: Any airport or part thereof located within or outside the city
limits, which has two (2) or more runways over five thousand feet (5,000') in
length, including lengths of waterways, landing strips, or both.
ALLEY: A public way, not less than thirty feet (30') wide and not more than
forty feet (40') wide, which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, must always be included for
each apartment.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY: A building, or portion thereof, where automobiles are
washed with the use of a chain conveyor and blower or steam cleaning device.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame or
fender straightening or repair; and overall painting of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and motor
service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under the
definition of "automobile repair, major" in this section.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A place where gasoline, stored only in underground
tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease, for operation of automobiles, are
offered for sale directly to the public on the premises, and including minor
accessories and the services for automobiles, but not including major
automobile repairs, and including washing of automobiles where no chain
conveyor, blower or steam cleaning device is employed. When the dispensing,
sale or offering for sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of
a public garage, the premises shall be classified as a public garage.
Automobile service stations shall not include sale or storage of junkers or
junkyards as defined in this section.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles, not
in running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not
being restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for
wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles, or parts thereof, and including any
used farm vehicles or farm machinery, or parts thereof, stored in the open and
not being restored to operating condition, and including the commercial
salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
BASEMENT: A story, partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/2)
of its height is above the established curb level or above the average level of
the adjoining ground where curb level has not been established, a basement
shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or, in lieu of a street or streets,
by public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines or
shorelines of waterways or a corporate boundary line of the city.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building, other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals are
provided for compensation to more than twelve (12) persons, but less than sixty
(60) persons, who are not members of the keeper's family.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a zoning lot after there has been
compliance with the minimum open space requirements of this title.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
by walls in which there are no communication doors, windows or openings; and
which is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels. Any structure with interior areas not normally
accessible for human use, such as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain
elevators, coal bunkers, oil cracking towers and other similar structures, are
not considered a building.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures, by a
permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows
and normal entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or its
equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building
to the highest point on the roof; provided, that where the buildings are set
back from the street line, the height of the building may be measured from the
average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING : Any building which does not conform to the
regulations of this title prescribing the maximum floor area ratio, required
yards, coverage, height and setbacks, minimum required spacing between
buildings on a single lot, and minimum required usable open space for the
district in which such building is located.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main use of the
zoning lot on which it is situated.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line parallel to the street line at a distance from
it, regulated by the front yard requirements set up in this title.
BULK: The term used to describe the size and mutual relationships of buildings
and other structures, as to size; height; coverage; shape; location of exterior
walls in relation to lot lines, to the centerline of streets, to other walls of
the same building, and to other buildings or structures; and to all open spaces
relating to the building or structure.
BUS LOT: Any lot or land area used for the storage or layover of passenger
buses or motor coaches.
CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA: Means equipment intended to be used for ingesting or
otherwise introducing adult-use legal cannabis into the human body, but not
illegal drug paraphernalia as defined by state law, and not those items of
equipment, products or materials used by licensed adult-use cannabis business
establishments for planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, or concealing cannabis.
CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: A facility housing a person,
individual, firm, partnership, organization, business, association, stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
appointed by order of any court, not required to be licensed by any state
agency, who sells at retail lawful cannabis paraphernalia as defined herein.
CARTAGE, LOCAL: Pick up and delivery of parcels, packages and freight by motor
truck within and not exceeding fifteen (15) miles of the city.
CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below the curb
level or below the highest level of the adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be
counted as a story for the purpose of height measurements.
CLINIC OR MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER: An establishment where patients are admitted
for special study and treatment by two (2) or more licensed physicians and
their professional associates, practicing medicine together.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, which owns, hires or leases a building, or portion
thereof.
COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (CSES): An area of land or other area used or
leased by a property owner, multiple property owners, and/or corporate entity
for a solar collection system principally used to capture solar energy, convert
it to electrical energy or thermal power, and supply electrical or thermal
power, primarily or solely for off-site utility grid use, and consisting of one
or more free-standing ground-mounted, solar arrays or modules, battery storage
facilities, solar related equipment, and ancillary improvements, including
substations.
CORNER LOT: See definition of Lot, Corner.
CORNER LOT, REVERSED: See definition of Lot, Reversed Corner.
COVERAGE, LOT: See definition of Lot Coverage.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of the building measured
at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street,
the "curb level" shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center
of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the
mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building shall be considered
the "curb level".
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not including a house trailer or
mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential occupancy, including
one-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling units and multiple- family
dwelling units, but not including hotels, boarding or lodging houses.
DWELLING GROUP: Two (2) or more one-family, two-family or multiple- family
dwellings, or boarding or lodging houses, located on one zoning lot, but not
including tourist courts or motels.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, designed or altered
for occupancy by three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, ONE- FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for use and occupancy by
one family, and entirely separated from any other dwelling by space.
DWELLING, ROW (PARTY WALL): A row of two (2) to eight (8) attached, one-family,
party wall dwellings, not more than two and one-half (21/2) stories in height,
nor more than two (2) rooms in depth measured from the building line.
DWELLING, TWO- FAMILY: A building designed or altered to provide dwelling units
for occupancy by two (2) families.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a residential structure or apartment-hotel,
designed for occupancy by one family, plus not more than four (4) lodgers, for
living and sleeping purposes.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruit trees, and grain, and for the packing or storage of the
products produced on the premises, as well as for the raising thereon of the
usual farm poultry and farm animals, such as horses, cattle, sheep and swine as
secondary to crop raising, subject to distance limitations from residential
property and not including the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine
or other animals, the commercial feeding of animals on open lots where no feed
is raised on the premises, or the commercial feeding of poultry broilers or
laboratory animals such as mice, rats, rabbits, etc.
FUEL BULK STATION: A place where crude petroleum, gasoline, naphtha, benzine,
benzol, kerosene or other flammable liquid which has a flashpoint at or below
two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (200°F) (closed cup tester) is stored for
wholesale purposes, where the aggregate capacity of all storage tanks is more
than six thousand (6,000) gallons, regardless of whether the fuel is stored
aboveground, underground or in mobile tank cars or trucks.
GARAGE, BUS: Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of three
(3) or more passenger motor buses, or motor coaches used in public
transportation, including school buses.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building, or portion of the principal
building, designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of
automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
incidental servicing and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale within the structure, but
not including trucks, tractors, truck-trailers and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GARAGE, TRUCK: A building which is used or intended to be used for the storage
of motor trucks, truck-trailers, tractors and commercial vehicles exceeding one
and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GUESTHOUSE: Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on the
same premises with the principal building, for use by temporary guests of the
occupants of the premises. Such quarters shall have no kitchen facilities nor
be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
HOME OCCUPATION: A gainful occupation or profession customarily carried on by
an occupant of a dwelling unit as a use which is clearly incidental to the use
of the dwelling unit for residential purposes. The home occupation shall be
carried on wholly within the principal building or within a building accessory
thereto, and only by members of the family occupying the premises and two (2)
persons outside the family. No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the
premises except such as is produced by the occupation on the premises. There
shall be no exterior display, no exterior sign, except as allowed by the sign
regulations for the district in which such home occupation is located, no
exterior storage of materials, and no other exterior indication of the home
occupation or variation from the residential character of the principal
building, and no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat or glare
shall be produced. The following uses, as defined in this title, are excluded
from the provisions of the home occupation classification: automobile repair,
major or minor; automobile wrecking yard; junkyard; used car lot; welding
shops.
HOSPITAL OR SANATORIUM: An institution devoted primarily to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care, for not less than
twenty four (24) hours in any week, of three (3) or more nonrelated individuals
suffering from illness, disease, or injury. The term "hospital", as used in
this title, does not apply to institutions operating solely for treatment of
insane persons, drug addicts, liquor addicts or other types of cases
necessitating restraint of patients, and the term "hospital" shall not include
convalescent, nursing, shelter or boarding homes.
HOTEL, APARTMENT: A building containing dwelling units or individual
guestrooms, the majority of which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor
service may be provided, but kitchen facilities are not necessarily included.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: A building in which more than five (5) rooms or suites are
reserved to provide living and sleeping accommodations for temporary guests,
with no provisions in said rooms for cooking in any individual room or suite,
except microwaves.
HOUSEHOLDER: The occupant of a dwelling unit who is either the owner or lessee
thereof.
JUNKER: An automobile, truck or other motor vehicle which has been damaged to
such an extent that it cannot be operated under its own power and will require
major repairs before being made usable, or such a vehicle which does not comply
with state or city vehicle laws or ordinances.
JUNKYARD OR SALVAGE YARD: The use of more than two hundred (200) square feet of
any lot where waste, scrap metal, paper, rags or similar materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled including auto
and building wrecking yards, but excluding similar uses taking place entirely
within a completely enclosed building.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than three (3)
dogs, or more than three (3) cats, or more than three (3) other household
domestic animals, excluding puppies, kittens, or other babies under six (6)
months of age, are kept or in which more than three (3) such animals are
boarded for compensation or kept for sale.
LABORATORY, COMMERCIAL: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing
and analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly or packaging of products is not included
within this definition.
LINE OF BUILDING (FOR MEASURING YARDS): A line parallel to the nearest lot line
drawn through the point of a building or group of buildings nearest to such lot
line, exclusive of such features specified as being permitted to extend into a
yard.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open or enclosed hard surfaced area
of land, other than a street or public way, the principal use of which is for
the standing, loading and unloading of motor trucks, tractors and trailers, to
avoid undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. Such space
shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width, fifty five feet (55') in length
and fourteen feet (14') in height, exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering
space.
LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open to the public or to overnight guests.
LOT: When used alone, shall mean a "zoning lot" unless the context of this
title clearly indicates otherwise.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of a block.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public
street; for a corner lot, the owner may elect either street line as the front
lot line.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front property line of a zoning lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A side lot line in common with another lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: The rear lot line is the lot line or lot lines most nearly
parallel to and most remote from the front lot line. Lot lines other than front
or rear lot lines are side lot lines.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: Space within a public or private parking area,
exclusive of access drives or alleys, ramps, columns, or office and work areas,
for the storage of one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and
one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
PET SHOP: See definition of Kennel.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A residential or commercial development guided
by a total design plan in which one or more of the zoning or subdivision
regulations, other than use regulations, shall be permitted to be waived or
varied to allow flexibility and creativity in site and building design and
location, in accordance with general guidelines.
PORCH: A roofed over structure, projecting out from the wall or walls of a main
structure and commonly open to the weather in part.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm, corporation or municipal department, duly
authorized to furnish under public regulation to the public, electricity, gas,
steam, telephone, telegraph, transportation or water.
RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops or water towers.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, travel trailer, motor home, mini-
motor home, truck camper, van camper, fifth wheel trailer, or popup tent
camper, all as defined in the Illinois vehicle code, used primarily for
recreational purposes, not permanent habitation nor commercial use.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that
coincides most nearly with the visual density of emission.
RUNWAY: A strip or area of pavement used exclusively for the landing or taking
off of aircraft, or for the movement of vehicles incidental to such use.
SETBACK LINE, BUILDING: See definition of Building Setback Line.
SMOKE UNITS: "Smoke units" represent the number obtained by multiplying the
smoke density in Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the
purpose of this definition, Ringelmann density reading is made at least once
every minute during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied
by the time in minutes during which it is observed; and the various products
are added together to give the total number of "smoke units" observed during
the total period under observation.
SPECIAL USE: Any use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted
herein, subject to the provisions of chapter 11 of this title.
STABLE, LIVERY: Any building, other than a private stable, designed, arranged,
used or intended to be used for the storage of horses and horsedrawn vehicles,
or both.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it or, if there be no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of a
story exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be considered as an
additional story for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction thereof.
STORY, HALF: That portion of a building under a gable, hip or mansard roof, the
wall plates of which, on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls, are not more
than four and one-half feet (41/2') above the finished floor of such story. In
the case of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and multiple-family
dwellings less than three (3) stories in height, a half story in a sloping roof
shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of this title. In the case of
multiple- family dwellings three (3) or more stories in height, a half story
shall be counted as a story.
STREET: A public way other than an alley.
STREET LINE: A line separating an abutting lot, piece or parcel from a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having location on the ground.
TAVERN: A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises.
TERRACE, OPEN: A level and rather narrow plane or platform which, for the
purpose of this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the
principal structure and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in
height above the average level of the adjoining ground.
TITLE: Reference to "title" herein shall be construed as the zoning ordinance.
TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD: Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, truck-trailers, and tractors, and including
commercial vehicles, while not loading or unloading, and which exceed one and
one-half (11/2) tons in capacity.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
USED CAR LOT: A zoning lot on which used and new cars, trailers or trucks are
displayed for sale or trade.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or group
of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends along a
lot line and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of a building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
YARD, SIDE: That part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building and a side lot line and extending from the required front
yard (or from the front lot line, if there is no required front yard) to the
required rear yard.
ZONING LOT: A plot of ground, made up of one or more parcels, which is or may
be occupied by a use, building or buildings including the open spaces required
by this title.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps incorporated into this title as a part hereof,
designating zoning districts. (1996 Code app. A § 3.2; amd. 2010 Code; Ord.
1767, 6-15-2021; Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023; Ord. 1808, 2-20-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Enforcement Officer
11-3-2: Permits
11-3-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
11-3-4: Amendments
11-3-5: Fees
11-3-6: Penalty
11-3-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The building official of the city is designated as the zoning administrator of
the city to be responsible for enforcing this title. Said building official
shall have the power and shall see that the provisions of this title are
properly enforced. (1996 Code app. A § 14.1; amd. 2010 Code)
11-3-2: PERMITS:
   A.   Building Permit 1 :
      1.   Permit And Compliance Required: No building or structure shall
hereafter be erected or structurally altered until a building permit shall be
issued by the building official stating that the building or structure and use
of land comply with the regulations of this title and all building and health
laws and ordinances of the city. (1996 Code app. A § 14.2-1; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Plat Required: All applications for building permits shall be
accompanied by a plat in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions
of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or structure to
be erected or structurally altered, its location on the lot or lots and such
other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of these
regulations. (1996 Code app. A § 14.2-1)
      3.   Records Kept: A careful record of such applications and plats shall
be kept in the office of the building official. (1996 Code app. A § 14.2-1;
amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Zoning Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: No lot or structure or part thereof that has been
created, developed, erected, enlarged. altered, relocated, or reconstructed in
the city and within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the city shall be used or
occupied until a zoning permit has been issued. (Ord. 1394, 1-21-2003)
      2.   Compliance With Provisions: The building official shall issue no
zoning permit unless he determines, by inspection, that the lot or structure,
as completed, and the proposed use thereof, conforms to all applicable
provisions of this title. The cost of said permit shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00). (Ord. 1394, 1-21-2003; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   State Permit For Private Sewage Disposal: No permit under this section
shall be issued unless the application for the permit is accompanied by a
permit from the Illinois department of public health or Jersey County health
department for a private sewage and wastewater disposal system issued to the
applicant. (Ord. 1227, 5-5-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-1-3 of this code.
11-3-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: No building or structure hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be occupied and used until a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the building official.
   B.   Compliance With Provisions: The certificate of occupancy shall be
issued only after the building official makes a finding that the building or
structure has been erected or structurally altered in conformance with the
provisions of this title and other health and building laws and in accordance
with a building permit.
   C.   Records Kept: A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the
office of the building official, and copies shall be furnished, on request, to
any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected.
(1996 Code app. A § 14.2-2; amd. 2010 Code)
11-3-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority To Petition; Fee: The city council, the planning and zoning
board and other governmental bodies and any private petitioner may apply for an
amendment to the text of this title and/or the accompanying zoning map made a
part of this title. Any petition for an amendment by a private party shall be
accompanied by a filing fee as established by the city council, which fee shall
be deposited with the city clerk at the time of the filing of the petition, and
no part shall be returnable to the petitioner. (1996 Code app. A § 15.1-1; amd.
2010 Code)
   B.   Contents Of Petition: The petition may be filed by the owner(s) or a
prospective buyer(s), or their legal representative. The following will be
required in the petition:
      1.   Complete name and address of all owners of the subject real estate,
and if filed by a prospective buyer, the complete names and addresses of all
prospective buyers.
      2.   Current zoning classification of subject real estate.
      3.   Intended zoning classifications sought by the petition.
      4.   Current use of subject real estate.
      5.   Intended use of subject real estate after amendment.
      6.   Approximate dimensions of the subject real estate.
      7.   Exact legal description of the subject real estate.
      8.   Street address of property.
      9.   A drawing of the property showing dimensions of the subject real
estate, the boundary lines of adjoining properties labeled with the adjoining
owners' names, the location of current improvements, if any, on the subject
real estate, and showing the approximate location and dimensions of the
improvement intended to be placed on the subject real estate in the event the
amendment sought is approved. The drawing need not be exact or drawn to scale
nor is it meant to require a certified survey.
      10.   If the improvement to be constructed is a new building or the
exterior of an existing structure is to be changed, a picture, photograph, or
drawing of the elevation of the proposed new improvement or similar structure.
      11.   Names and addresses of the owners of record of the real estate that
adjoins or touches the subject real estate. For the purpose of determining
whether a property adjoins or touches the subject real estate, alleys and
streets are excluded. (1996 Code app. A § 15.1-2; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Letters Of Consent: Petitioner may obtain written letters of consent to
the proposed amendment from adjoining or touching property owners and present
same at the meeting where the petition is considered. (1996 Code app. A § 15.1-
4; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Notice Of Amendment; Hearing:
      1.   The regulations imposed and the zoning districts created under this
title may be amended by ordinance, but no such amendment shall be made by the
city council without public notice and without a public hearing before the
planning and zoning board of the city. The planning and zoning board shall hold
the public hearing and forward its recommendations to the city council unless
it is withdrawn by the petitioner. (1996 Code app. A § 15.2; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   The petitioner is responsible to publish notice of the public
hearing on the petition in the following manner:
         a.   By publishing notice of the time and place of such hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city at least fifteen (15) days prior
to the date of the hearing.
         b.   Said notice by publication shall contain the legal description as
well as common street address for which the amendment is requested, the current
zoning classification, and the proposed amended zoning classification.
         c.   Petitioner or petitioner's agent shall contact all owners of
adjoining or touching property and present them with copies of the petition, a
written notice of the time, place and date of the meeting to consider the
petition, and a copy of this section. Such contact can be made by mail or in
person. All such contacts must be made at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing.
         d.   As used in this subsection D2, "days" is defined to mean calendar
days.
         e.   Proof of publication and proof of notice to adjoining or touching
property owners must be filed by affidavit of the petitioner or other legal
representative, with the city clerk not less than seven (7) days prior to the
date of the hearing.
         f.   Failure to abide by the notice dates provided herein will result
in the petition not being heard at the intended meeting. (1996 Code app. A §
15.3; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Written Protest: In the event of written protest against the proposed
amendment signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley or rear line therefrom,
or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered as to such regulations or zoning district,
filed with the city clerk, such amendment shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all of the members of the city council.
However, all written protests or petitions of objection must be filed with the
city clerk seven (7) days prior to the planning and zoning board meeting. In
such cases, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the protestor or
protestors on the applicant for the proposed amendments and a copy upon the
applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail, return receipt requested, at
the address of such applicant and attorney shown in the application for the
proposed amendment. Failure of any protestor or objector to file a written
protest or objection in accordance with this subsection shall result in the
protestor or objector not being heard at the hearing. (1996 Code app. A § 15.4;
amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Final Decision:
      1.   The city council, without further public hearing, may adopt or deny
the report of the planning and zoning board for any proposed amendment, or may
refer the petition back to the planning and zoning board for further
consideration. (1996 Code app. A § 15.5)
      2.   Any proposed amendment which fails to receive the approval of a
majority of the planning and zoning board members and is so reported, shall not
be passed by the city council except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3)
of all the elected members of the city council. (1996 Code app. A § 15.5; amd.
2010 Code)
      3.   a. The owner of any proposed property being altered cannot create a
buffer zone by only proposing to alter a portion of his property. For purposes
of this subsection F3, a "buffer zone" is defined as less than a total lot.
         b.   In the event that the portion to be altered is not platted, then
any portion that is not sought to be altered will be considered a buffer zone
if the portion sought not to be altered is not of sufficient size to meet the
current minimum standards for zoning classification of the unaltered property.
         c.   In the event that a buffer zone is deemed to have been created,
then those property owners who would be lawful protesters were it not for the
creation of said buffer zone shall be considered for all intents and purposes
as lawful protesters. All frontage is to be that frontage which is adjacent to
or opposite land owned by a person seeking zoning alterations, whether or not
said property is to be rezoned. (1996 Code app. A § 15.5)
   G.   Time Limit For Refiling Petition: Once the final decision has been made
by the city council to reject a petition for amendment for rezoning, another
petition for amendment to rezone the same property for the same use cannot be
made for a period of six (6) months. (1996 Code app. A § 15.6)
   H.   Reversion Of Zoning Amendment: Any zoning amendment made pursuant to
this title and not utilized by the petitioner within six (6) months from the
date said amendment was granted by the city council will be terminated, and the
zoning will revert to its original classification. However, an extension of
time may be granted if a written request is made to the city council prior to
the expiration of the six (6) month period. (1996 Code app. A § 15.7; amd. 2010
Code)
   I.   Annexed Land 1 :
      1.   Land that is annexed to the city is annexed as R-1 one-family
dwelling subject to the provisions of this subsection I1. The city adopted a
comprehensive plan for development for one and one-half (11/2) miles outside
its city limits on February 15, 2008. Any land annexed within the one and one-
half (11/2) mile area will be annexed with the zoning classification
established by the plan, if any. Any person seeking annexation may request in
their petition for annexation a zoning classification other than R-1.
      2.   If a zoning classification other than R-1 is desired for any part of
the land, the petition to annex must contain all information contained in
subsection B of this section as applicable, and the petitioners must notify
adjoining or touching property owners of their intent to seek a zoning
classification other than R-1 at least fifteen (15) days prior to the city
council meeting at which the petition will be heard. An affidavit of the
petitioners or their legal representative that notice was sent by certified
mail or hand delivered to the adjoining or touching property owners must be
filed with the city clerk at least seven (7) days prior to the city council
meeting. (1996 Code app. A § 15.8; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   The city council shall have original jurisdiction of the matter with
the authority to establish the requested zoning classification for the annexed
property without the matter being considered by the planning and zoning board.
Should the city deny the requested classification, those seeking annexation may
withdraw their petition for annexation or allow the real estate to be annexed
at an R-1 classification. If the real estate is annexed with the R-
1 classification, the annexing property owners have the right to request a
zoning classification amendment in the manner and form as set out herein. (1996
Code app. A § 15.8)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  11-4-4 of this title.
11-3-5: FEES:
Fees pertaining to petitions for zoning amendments, zoning permits, use
permits, special uses, variances and for appeals to the planning and zoning
board shall be established by action of the city council from time to time.
Such fees shall be paid to the city clerk, who shall give a receipt therefor
and account for same at regular intervals to the city council. (1996 Code app.
A § 17; amd. 2010 Code)
11-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this title shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (1996 Code app. A § 18; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE A. PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Board Created; Membership; Appointment; Terms Of Office
11-3A-2: Vacancies And Removals
11-3A-3: Officers
11-3A-4: Meetings And Rules
11-3A-5: Powers And Duties
11-3A-6: Variances; Additional Provisions
11-3A-7: Board Restricted Regarding Zone Changes
11-3A-8: Appeals And Review
11-3A-9: Expenses
11-3A-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby established a planning and zoning board pursuant to the
authority of and for the purposes of administering the planning and zoning
functions conferred upon the city by divisions 12 and 13 of the Illinois
municipal code. Said planning and zoning board shall consist of seven (7)
members appointed by the mayor of the city and confirmed by the city council.
The members of the planning and zoning board shall serve respectively for the
following terms: one for one year; one for two (2) years; one for three (3)
years; one for four (4) years; one for five (5) years; one for six (6) years;
and one for seven (7) years. The successor of each member so appointed shall
serve for a term of five (5) years. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-1; amd. 2010 Code)
11-3A-2: VACANCIES AND REMOVALS:
Vacancies shall be filled by the mayor, subject to confirmation by the city
council, for the unexpired terms. Members may be removed by the mayor for cause
after written charges have been filed and after a public hearing has been held,
if demanded by the member so charged. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-1)
11-3A-3: OFFICERS:
   A.   Chair: One of the members of the board shall be designated by the
mayor, with the consent of the city council, as chair of said board and shall
hold office as chair until a successor is appointed. The chair, or in his
absence the acting chair, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-1)
   B.   Clerk For Board: The city clerk shall act as clerk for the board and
shall make and keep a record of all its meetings and official acts. If the city
clerk is unable to attend a meeting, the deputy city clerk shall act in her
place. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-1; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Legal Representative: The city attorney shall act as attorney and legal
representative for the board. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-1)
11-3A-4: MEETINGS AND RULES:
   A.   Meetings: All meetings of the board shall be held according to a
schedule published annually and at such other times as the board may determine,
and all meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
   B.   Minutes:
      1.   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other official
actions.
      2.   Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes on each case, and
the reasons for granting or denying each application shall be specified.
      3.   Every rule, regulation and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the board shall be immediately filed in the office of the city
clerk and shall be a public record.
      4.   The minutes of the board shall be open to public examination at
reasonable hours. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-2)
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The board may adopt its own rules of procedure, a
copy of which shall be filed in the office of the city clerk. (1996 Code app. A
§ 14.3-2; amd. 2010 Code)
11-3A-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning and zoning board, as herein created, is a body of limited powers.
   A.   Appeals:
      1.   The board shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the building official charged
with the enforcement of this title.
      2.   The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or
amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises, and to that end, the board shall also have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   B.   Other Matters:
      1.   The board shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or
upon which it is required to pass under this title, or other titles of this
code.
      2.   The board may prepare and recommend to the city council such changes
to the official comprehensive plan or such specific improvements in furtherance
of the official comprehensive plan, as it deems necessary or advisable.
   C.   Variances: When a property owner or his agent shows that a strict
application of the terms of this title relating to the use, construction or
alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land imposes upon him
practical difficulties or particular hardship, then the board may authorize
such variations of the strict application of the terms of this title as are in
harmony with its general purpose and intent when the board is satisfied, under
the evidence heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not merely
serve as a convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate some
demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation from the
provisions of this title or in the following instances:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown on record prior to the
effective date hereof (February 3, 1959).
      2.   To permit a building to exceed the height limit by not more than ten
percent (10%) of the height limit established by this title.
      3.   To permit the use of a lot less in area by not more than fifteen
percent (15%) of the lot width as required by this title.
      4.   To permit the use of a lot less in width by not more than fifteen
percent (15%) of the lot width as required by this title.
      5.   To interpret the provisions of this title where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map fixing
the several districts, which zoning map is made a part of this title.
      6.   To permit a CSES to reduce one, or more, yard or residential setback
areas by up to 50 percent (50%) of the setback as required by this title.
   D.   Findings Of Fact: In considering all appeals and all proposed
variations to this title, the board shall, before granting any variation from
this title in a specific case, first determine and make a finding of fact that
the proposed variation will not:
      1.   Impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property.
      2.   Unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets.
      3.   Increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety.
      4.   Unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within
the surrounding area, or in any other respect, impair the public health,
safety, comfort, morals and welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
   E.   Required Vote: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, reverse any decision of the building
official or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
authorized by this title to render decisions. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-3; amd.
Ord. 1376, 8-6-2022; 2010 Code; Ord. 1767, 6-15-2021)
11-3A-6: VARIANCES; ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   City Council Action:
      1.   No variation in any specific case shall be made by the city council
without a hearing by the planning and zoning board as required herein nor
without a report thereof having been made by the board to the city council, and
every such report shall be accompanied by a finding of fact specifying the
reasons for the report. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-4)
      2.   Upon the report of the planning and zoning board, the city council,
without further public hearing, may adopt or deny any proposed variation or may
refer the report back to the board for further consideration. Any proposed
variation which fails to receive the approval of four (4) members of the
planning and zoning board shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of all the elected members of the city council. In making any
variations, the city council shall be governed by the same considerations and
restrictions as the variations in particular instances under section
11-3A-5 of this article. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-4; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Time Constraints: No order for a variance permitting the use, erection
or alteration of a building shall be valid for a period longer than six (6)
months, unless such use is established within such period; provided, however,
that where such use permitted is dependent upon the use, erection or alteration
of a building, such order shall continue in force and effect if a building
permit for said use, erection or alteration is obtained within such period, and
such use, erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in
accordance with the terms of such permit. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-6; amd. 2010
Code)
11-3A-7: BOARD RESTRICTED REGARDING ZONE CHANGES:
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the planing and
zoning board the power or authority to alter or change this title or any use
district made a part of the zoning map, such power and authority being reserved
to the city council, and the board shall not have any power or authority with
respect to any alterations or change of this title except to make
recommendations to the city council in such specific cases as may properly come
before the planning and zoning board. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-5)
11-3A-8: APPEALS AND REVIEW:
   A.   Authority To Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the building
official charged with the enforcement of this title or by any other officer,
department, board or bureau of the city concerning the interpretation of this
title may take an appeal to the planning and zoning board.
   B.   Filing Appeal:
      1.   Said appeals shall be taken within forty five (45) days of the
action complained of, and shall be taken by filing with the officer from whom
the appeal is taken and the planning and zoning board a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof, together with such plats and exhibits as are
reasonably necessary.
      2.   Such appeal shall be taken upon forms provided by the planning and
zoning board.
      3.   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit
to the board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed was taken. (1996 Code app. A § 14.4; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: The appeal shall stay all proceedings and
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the planning and zoning board, after notice of
appeal has been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case, the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
a restraining order which may be granted by the planning and zoning board or a
circuit court on application, with notice to the officer from whom the appeal
is taken, and all due causes shown.
   D.   Hearing: The planning and zoning board shall fix a reasonable time and
place for the hearing of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the persons
appealing and to the officer from whom the appeal is taken. The board shall
hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable time. At the hearing, parties of
interest may appear in person or by agent or attorney. (1996 Code app. A §
14.5)
   E.   Judicial Review: All final administrative decisions of the board under
this section shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of
the administrative review law of the state 1 , approved May 8, 1945, and all
amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto.
The term "administrative decision" is defined as in section 3-101 of the
administrative review law. (1996 Code app. A § 14.5; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
11-3A-9: EXPENSES:
Expenses incurred by the planning and zoning board are to be itemized and shall
be borne by the city. (1996 Code app. A § 14.3-2)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
11-4-1: Districts Established
11-4-2: Zoning Map
11-4-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
11-4-4: Zoning Of New Or Annexed Land
11-4-5: Rezoning Of Public And Semipublic Areas
11-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this title within the
corporate limits of the city, the city is hereby divided into the following
districts:
Residential districts:
    One-family dwelling district
    One-family dwelling district
    One-family dwelling district
    Two-family dwelling district
    Multiple-family dwelling district
    Residential mobile home district
    Residential cluster developments
Business districts:
    Business district, offices
    Business district, stores
    Business district, retail sales, restaurants not serving liquor
Manufacturing districts:
    Manufacturing district, limited
    Manufacturing district, general
    Manufacturing district, industrial
 
(1996 Code app. A § 4.1; amd. Ord. 1176, 4-23-1996; Ord. 1182, 6-4-1996; Ord.
1210, 7-29-1997; Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999; 2010 Code)
11-4-2: ZONING MAP:
The locations and boundaries of the districts established herein are shown upon
the zoning map which is hereby incorporated into this title. The zoning map,
together with all notations, references and other information shown thereon,
and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of this title and shall have the
same force and effect as if the zoning map, together with all notations,
references and other information shown thereon, were fully set forth and
described herein. (1996 Code app. A § 4.2)
11-4-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   A.   All streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights of way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways and
railroad rights of way. Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way or
railroad right of way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such areas,
unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as
that of the abutting property up to such centerline. (1996 Code app. A § 4.4)
   B.   Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any use district
as shown on the zoning map incorporated herein, the following rules shall
apply:
      1.   Where district boundary lines are indicated as following streets,
alleys or similar rights of way, they shall be construed as following the
centerlines thereof.
      2.   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately
following lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
      3.   Where a lot held in one ownership and of record at the effective
date hereof is divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall be
construed to be within the less restricted district; provided, that this
construction shall not apply if it increases the area of the less restricted
portion of the lot by more than twenty percent (20%). (1996 Code app. A § 4.5)
11-4-4: ZONING OF NEW OR ANNEXED LAND 1 :
Submerged land heretofore reclaimed, or which may be reclaimed hereafter, and
land heretofore annexed, or which may be annexed to the city hereafter, and
which is not shown on the zoning map made a part of this title, or not shown in
the official comprehensive plan, shall be classified R-1 one-family dwelling
district until such time as the city council designates the permitted use of
the land in accordance with the provisions of this title. (1996 Code app. A §
4.3; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 11-3-4I of this title.
11-4-5: REZONING OF PUBLIC AND SEMIPUBLIC AREAS:
An area indicated on the zoning map as a public park, recreation area, public
school site, cemetery or other similar open space shall not be used for any
other purpose than that designated; and when the use of the area is
discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned to the most restricted adjoining
district. (1996 Code app. A § 5.8; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS FOR ALL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Building Height, Bulk And Lot Coverage
11-5-2: Lot Area And Dimension
11-5-3: Location Of Buildings
11-5-4: Buildings Under Construction
11-5-5: Fences
11-5-6: Accessory Buildings
11-5-1: BUILDING HEIGHT, BULK AND LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   No building shall be erected, reconstructed, relocated or structurally
altered so as to have a greater height, a higher ratio of lot coverage or
smaller open space set forth herein for the district in which such building is
located; except, that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, stacks, stage towers, communication towers, or scenery
lofts and necessary mechanical appurtenances shall be permitted to exceed the
maximum height provisions when erected in accordance with all other ordinances
of the city. (Ord. 1348, 8-7-2001)
   B.   No space allocated to a building or dwelling group for the purpose of
complying with the side, rear or front yard or court or other open space or lot
area requirements of this title shall thereafter, by reason of change in
ownership or for any other reason, be used to satisfy the yard, court, open
space or lot area requirements of any other building or dwelling group. (1996
Code app. A § 5.3-2)
   C.   An open terrace, but not including a roof-over porch or terrace, may
occupy a front yard, provided the unoccupied portion of the front yard has a
depth of not less than fifteen feet (15'). A one-story bay window may project
into a front yard not more than three feet (3'). (1996 Code app. A § 5.3-3;
amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   No usable open space or off street parking space or loading space
existing or provided hereinafter for any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements hereinafter set forth for such usable open space, parking
space or loading space, nor further reduced if already less than said minimum
requirements. (1996 Code app. A § 5.3-4)
11-5-2: LOT AREA AND DIMENSION:
   A.   When two (2) or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area
and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the use
district in which they are located, are contiguous and are held in one
ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot for such use. (1996 Code app. A
§ 5.4-1)
   B.   Any single lot or parcel of land, held in one ownership, which was of
record at the effective date hereof (February 3, 1959), that does not meet the
requirements for minimum lot width and area may be utilized for a permitted
use; provided, that yards, courts or usable open space are not less than
seventy five percent (75%) of the minimum required dimensions or areas. (1996
Code app. A § 5.4-2)
11-5-3: LOCATION OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided for in this title, every building shall be
constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which abuts upon a public
street or permanent easement of access to a public street, which easement shall
have a minimum width of twenty five feet (25'), unless an easement of lesser
width was of record prior to the effective date hereof (February 3, 1959).
(1996 Code app. A § 5.5)
   B.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide
dwelling units shall be located on a "zoning lot", as defined in section
11-2-3 of this title, and in no case shall there be more than one such building
on one zoning lot. (1996 Code app. A § 5.7)
11-5-4: BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building upon which a lawful building
permit was issued prior to the effective date of this code. (1996 Code app. A §
5.6; amd. 2010 Code)
11-5-5: FENCES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Fences shall be a permitted use in any zoned area of the
city. (1996 Code app. A § 5.9-1)
   B.   Height Restrictions:
      1.   Rear And Side Yard Fences: Rear and side yard fences shall not
exceed eight feet (8') in height (measured from natural ground level) and shall
not extend past the front of any dwelling on any property adjacent to the
fence. (1996 Code app. A § 5.9-2; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   Front Yard Fences: Front yard fences shall not exceed four and one-
half feet (41/2') in height (measured from natural ground level) and shall not
be of a solid construction so as to block air, light and view. (1996 Code app.
A § 5.9-3)
   C.   Location: Fences may be built on the property line; however, it is the
property owner's responsibility to determine the property line. The city has no
obligation to locate any property line. (1996 Code app. A § 5.9-6)
   D.   Location Of Posts: If the fence type involves placement of fenceposts
on only one side of the fence panel, the posts shall be placed on the owner's
side of the fence. (2010 Code)
   E.   Maintenance Required: The property owner must maintain any fencing in
an upright, neat and orderly manner as determined by the building official.
(1996 Code app. A § 5.9-7; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Prohibited And Restricted Materials:
      1.   No electrically charged fences are allowed within the city. (1996
Code app. A § 5.9-4)
      2.   Protection fencing, that is fencing exceeding eight feet (8') in
height or barbed wire fencing, is allowed only by prior approval of the city
council. (1996 Code app. A § 5.9-5; amd. 2010 Code)
11-5-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions For Main Building: Where an accessory
building is structurally attached to a main building, it shall be subject to,
and must conform to, all regulations of this title applicable to the main
building. (1996 Code app. A § 8.1)
   B.   Location:
      1.   An accessory building may only be located in the rear yard, and it
may not be located nearer than three feet (3') of the interior lot line, or
nearer than five feet (5') of the rear lot line. (1996 Code app. A § 8.2; amd.
2010 Code)
      2.   No accessory building shall be located on a reversed corner lot
beyond the front building line on the adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located
nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot line of the adjacent lot. (1996 Code
app. A § 8.4; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Construction After Main Building: An accessory building shall not be
erected prior to the establishment or construction of the main building to
which it is accessory. (1996 Code app. A § 8.3)
   D.   Prohibited Uses: No accessory building may be used for human habitation
as permanent or temporary living quarters, for operation of a business or home
occupation, or for a vehicle garage or vehicle storage. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose
11-6-1: PURPOSE:
The residential districts set forth herein are established in order to protect
public health and promote public safety, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity and welfare. These general goals include, among others, the
following specific purposes:
   A.   To protect residential areas against fire, explosion, noxious fumes,
offensive noise, smoke, vibrations, dust, odors, heat, glare and other
objectionable factors.
   B.   To protect residential areas, to the extent possible and appropriate in
each area, against unduly heavy motor vehicle traffic, especially through
traffic, and to alleviate congestion by promoting off street parking.
   C.   To protect residential areas against undue congestion of public streets
and other public facilities by controlling the density of population through
regulation of the bulk of buildings.
   D.   To protect and promote the public health and comfort by providing for
ample light and air to buildings and the windows thereof.
   E.   To promote public comfort and welfare by providing for usable open
space on the same zoning lot with residential development.
   F.   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to meet the
probable need for future residential expansion and to meet the need for
necessary and desirable services in the vicinity of residences, which increase
safety and amenity for residents and which do not exert objectionable
influences.
   G.   To promote the best use and development of residential land in
accordance with a comprehensive land use plan, to promote stability of
residential development and protect the character and desirable development,
and to protect the value of land and improvements and to strengthen the
economic base of the city. (1996 Code app. A § 11.0)
ARTICLE A. R-1 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6A-1: Permitted Uses
11-6A-2: Building Height
11-6A-3: Lot Size
11-6A-4: Yard Areas
11-6A-5: Dwelling Standards
11-6A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory buildings, as defined in section
11-2-3 of this title and as regulated by section
11-5-6 of this title.
Churches and off street parking facilities for said churches.
Convents, monasteries, rectories or parish houses to be occupied by not more
than ten (10) persons.
Home occupations, as defined in section
11-2-3 of this title.
Off street parking facilities, as required or permitted by chapter 13 of this
title.
One-family detached dwellings.
Signs, as regulated by chapter 12 of this title.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year.
Truck gardening and other horticultural uses where no building is involved and
when no sale of products is conducted on the premises. (1996 Code app. A §
11.1-1; amd. Ord. 1212, 8-12-1997; 2010 Code)
11-6A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum height of buildings permitted shall be as follows, except as
provided in subsection 11-5-1A of this title: (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-2)
   A.   One-family detached dwellings: Twenty five feet (25') and not over two
and one-half (21/2) stories. (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-2.1)
   B.   Churches: Seventy five feet (75') for towers or steeples, but not more
than forty five feet (45') for the main structure. (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-
2.2)
11-6A-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   One-Family Dwelling: Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter
erected, where sanitary sewers are not available, shall be on a lot having an
area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and a width at the
established building line of not less than one hundred feet (100'), except as
provided in section
11-5-2 of this title, and except, when a dwelling is served by public water
supply and by public sanitary sewer facilities, a single-family detached
dwelling may be erected on a lot having an area of not less than fifteen
thousand (15,000) square feet and a width at the established building line of
not less than one hundred feet (100'), except as provided in section
11-5-2 of this title. (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-3.1)
   B.   Churches, Convents And Monasteries: Churches, convents and monasteries
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of
not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and a width at the building
line of not less than one hundred feet (100'). (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-3.2)
11-6A-4: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement: (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-4)
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than forty feet (40'). Where lots comprising forty
percent (40%) or more of the frontage between two (2) intersecting streets are
developed with buildings having front yards with a variation of more than
fifteen feet (15') in depth, the average of such front yards shall establish
the minimum front yard depth for the entire frontage. In no case shall a front
yard of more than fifty feet (50') be required. (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-4.1)
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there shall be a
combined total of the side yards of not less than ten percent (10%) of the
width of the lot.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection B1 of this section, the combined
total of the side yards for interior lots shall be not less than twenty feet
(20'), and the combined total of the side yards for corner lots shall be not
less than twenty five feet (25'). On corner lots, there shall be maintained a
side yard of not less than ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to the street
which intersects the street upon which the building or structure maintains
frontage, and in the case of a reversed corner lot, there shall be maintained a
setback from the side street of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the front
yard required on the lots in the rear of such corner lots, but such setback
need not exceed fifteen feet (15').
      3.   No accessory building on said reversed corner lot shall project
beyond the front building line on the adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located
nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot line of said adjacent lot, nor less
than ten feet (10') from a principal building on an adjacent lot. (1996 Code
app. A § 11.1-4.2; amd. 2010 Code)
      4.   On lots upon which a church is constructed, or extensions made to an
existing church, there shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet (10') on
each side of the main structure and a combined total of side yards of not less
than twenty five feet (25'). (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-4.2)
   C.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (1996
Code app. A § 11.1-4.3)
   D.   Permitted Obstructions: The following shall not be considered as
obstructions when located within or over required yards:
      Arbors and trellises.
      Awnings and canopies.
      Breezeways and open porches (rear yards only).
      Chimneys, not exceeding two percent (2%) of the width of the lot.
      Densely compacted hedges (compliance with fence regulations, section
11-5-5 of this title).
      Fences (see section
11-5-5 of this title for regulations).
      Open parking areas.
      Steps not over four feet (4') in height.
      Terraces. (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-4.4; amd. 2010 Code)
11-6A-5: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   One-Story Dwellings: Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in any
R-1 one-family district shall have a total ground floor area of not less than
nine hundred (900) square feet measured from the outside of the exterior walls,
including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches,
breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during
extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
   B.   Dwellings Over One Story: Every dwelling of more than one story
hereafter erected in any R-1 one-family district shall have a total floor area,
measured from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than one thousand
two hundred (1,200) square feet, including utility rooms, but excluding
cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are
not used frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
purposes; except, that enclosed space intended for habitable rooms which are to
be completed within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor
areas. (1996 Code app. A § 11.1-5)
ARTICLE B. R-2 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6B-1: Permitted Uses
11-6B-2: Building Height
11-6B-3: Lot Size
11-6B-4: Yard Areas
11-6B-5: Dwelling Standards
11-6B-1: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the R-1 one-family dwelling district (section
11-6A-1 of this chapter). (1996 Code app. A § 11.2-1; amd. Ord. 1212, 8-12-
1997; 2010 Code)
11-6B-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum height of buildings permitted shall be as follows: (1996 Code app.
A § 11.2-2)
   A.   One-family detached dwellings: Twenty five feet (25') and not over two
and one-half (21/2) stories. (1996 Code app. A § 11.2-2.1)
   B.   Churches: Seventy five feet (75') for towers and steeples, but not more
than forty five feet (45') for the main structure. (1996 Code app. A § 11.2-
2.2)
11-6B-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   One-Family Dwelling: Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter
erected where sanitary sewers are not available shall be on a lot having an
area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, and a width at the
established building line of not less than one hundred feet (100'), except as
provided in section
11-5-2 of this title, and except, when a dwelling is served by public water
supply and by public sanitary sewer facilities, a single-family detached
dwelling may be erected on a lot having not less than seven thousand two
hundred (7,200) square feet and a width at the established building line of not
less than sixty feet (60'), except as provided in section
11-5-2 of this title. (1996 Code app. A § 11.2-3.1)
   B.   Churches, Convents And Monasteries: Churches, convents and monasteries
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of
not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a width at the building
line of not less than seventy five feet (75'). (1996 Code app. A § 11.2-3.2)
11-6B-4: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement: (1996 Code app. A § 11.2-4)
   A.   Front Yards: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than twenty feet (20') in depth. Where lots comprising
forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage between two (2) intersecting
streets are developed with buildings having an existing variation of front yard
depth, the average of such front yards shall establish the minimum front yard
depth for the entire frontage. In no case shall a front yard of more than fifty
feet (50') be required. (1996 Code app. A § 11.2-4.1)
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there shall be a
side yard on each side of not less than five feet (5'). (1996 Code app. A §
11.2-4.2)
      2.   On corner lots, there shall be maintained a side yard of not less
than ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to the street which intersects the
street upon which the building or structure maintains frontage, and in the case
of a reversed corner lot, there shall be maintained a setback from the side
street of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the front yard required on the
lots in the rear of such corner lots, but such setback need not exceed fifteen
feet (15'). No accessory building on said reversed corner lot shall project
beyond the front building line on the adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located
nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot line of said adjacent lot. (1996
Code app. A § 11.2-4.2; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   On lots upon which a church is constructed or extensions made to an
existing church, there shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet (10') on
each side of the main structure and a combined total of side yards of not less
than twenty five feet (25'). (1996 Code app. A § 11.2-4.2)
   C.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard not less than twenty feet (20') in depth.
(1996 Code app. A § 11.2-4.3)
   D.   Permitted Obstructions: The same regulations shall apply as required in
the R-1 district (subsection 11-6A-4D of this chapter). (1996 Code app. A §
11.2-4.4)
11-6B-5: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   One-Story Dwellings: Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in any
R-2 one-family district shall have a total ground floor area of not less than
seven hundred twenty (720) square feet measured from the outside of the
exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open
porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or
during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
   B.   Dwellings Over One Story: Every dwelling of more than one story
hereafter erected in any R-2 one-family district shall have a total floor area,
measured from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than nine hundred
(900) square feet, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements,
open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently
or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except,
that enclosed space intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed
within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor areas. (1996
Code app. A § 11.2-5)
ARTICLE C. R-3 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6C-1: Permitted Uses
11-6C-2: Building Height
11-6C-3: Lot Size
11-6C-4: Yard Areas
11-6C-5: Dwelling Standards
11-6C-1: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the R-1 one-family dwelling district. (1996 Code app. A §
11.3-1)
11-6C-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The same regulations shall apply as required or permitted in the R-1 one-family
dwelling district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.3-2)
11-6C-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   One-Family Dwelling: Every one-family detached dwelling hereafter
erected where sanitary sewers are not available shall be on a lot having an
area of not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, and a width at the
established building line of not less than one hundred feet (100'), except as
provided in section
11-5-2 of this title, and except, when a dwelling is served by public water
supply and by public sanitary sewer facilities, a single-family detached
dwelling may be erected on a lot having not less than six thousand (6,000)
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than sixty
feet (60'), except as provided in section
11-5-2 of this title. (1996 Code app. A § 11.3-3.1)
   B.   Churches, Convents And Monasteries: Churches, convents and monasteries
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of
not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, and a width at the building
line of not less than seventy five feet (75'). (1996 Code app. A § 11.3-3.2)
11-6C-4: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement: (1996 Code app. A § 11.3-4)
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is erected shall have a
front yard of not less than twenty feet (20'). When lots comprising forty
percent (40%) or more of the frontage between two (2) intersecting streets are
developed with buildings having front yards with a variation of more than
fifteen feet (15') in depth, the average of such front yards shall establish
the minimum front yard depth for the entire frontage. In no case shall a front
yard of more than fifty feet (50') be required. (1996 Code app. A § 11.3-4.1)
   B.   Side Yard: The same regulations shall apply as required or permitted in
the R-2 one-family dwelling district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.3-4.2)
   C.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20'). (1996
Code app. A § 11.3-4.3)
   D.   Permitted Obstructions: The same regulations shall apply as required in
the R-1 district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.3-4.4)
11-6C-5: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   One-Story Dwellings: Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in any
R-3 one-family dwelling district shall have a total ground floor area of not
less than seven hundred twenty (720) square feet measured from the outside of
the exterior walls, including utility rooms but excluding cellars, basements,
open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently
or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
   B.   Dwellings Over One Story: Every dwelling of more than one story
hereafter erected in any R-3 one-family district shall have a total floor area,
measured from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than nine hundred
(900) square feet, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements,
open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently
or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except,
that enclosed space intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed
within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor areas. (1996
Code app. A § 11.3-5)
ARTICLE D. R-4 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6D-1: Permitted Uses
11-6D-2: Building Height
11-6D-3: Lot Size
11-6D-4: Yard Areas
11-6D-5: Dwelling Standards
11-6D-1: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the R-3 district.
Two-family dwellings. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-1; amd. 2010 Code)
11-6D-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The same regulations shall apply as permitted in the R-1 one- family district.
(1996 Code app. A § 11.4-2)
11-6D-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   One-Family Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as permitted in
the R-3 one-family district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-3.1)
   B.   Two-Family Dwellings: Every two-family dwelling hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of not less than six
thousand (6,000) square feet and a width at the building line of not less than
fifty feet (50'), except as provided in subsection 11-5-2B of this title. (1996
Code app. A § 11.4-3.2)
   C.   Converted Dwellings: An existing one-family dwelling located on a lot
of less area than required in this section may be converted to a two-family
dwelling without increasing the lot size; provided, that the building is not
enlarged and is in compliance with all regulations of article E, "R-5 Multiple-
Family Dwelling District", of this chapter. Additions may be made to an
existing building only when there can be compliance with lot size and yard
requirements of said article E. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-3.3; amd. 2010 Code)
   D.   Churches, Convents And Monasteries: The same regulations shall apply as
required in the R-1 district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-3.4)
11-6D-4: YARD AREAS:
Minimum yard area standards in the R-4 district are as follows:
   A.   Front Yard: The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
2 district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-4.1)
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   One-Family Detached Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as
required in the R-2 district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-4.2)
      2.   Two-Family Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as required
for one-family detached dwellings, except no side yard shall be required where
the two (2) separate dwelling units of the duplex adjoin (also known as a "zero
lot line"). The zero lot line must be located at the center of the lot. (1996
Code app. A § 11.4-4.2; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   Converted Dwellings: An existing one-family dwelling located on a
lot having side yards of less width than required herein may be converted to a
two-family dwelling; provided, that the building is not enlarged beyond its
present outside dimensions. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-4.2)
   C.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20'). (1996
Code app. A § 11.4-4.3)
   D.   Permitted Obstructions: The same regulations shall apply as required in
the R-1 district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-4.4)
11-6D-5: DWELLING STANDARDS:
Each dwelling unit hereafter erected, converted or reconstructed in any R-
4 district shall contain floor area in compliance with the following: (1996
Code app. A § 11.4-5)
   A.   One-Family Dwellings:
      1.   One-family detached dwellings shall have a total ground floor area
of not less than seven hundred twenty (720) square feet, measured from the
outside of the exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used
frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
(1996 Code app. A § 11.4-5.1)
      2.   Every one-family detached dwelling of more than one story hereafter
erected in any R-4 two-family district shall have a total floor area, measured
from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than one thousand one
hundred fifty (1,150) square feet, including utility rooms, but excluding
cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are
not used frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
purposes; except, that enclosed space intended for habitable rooms which are to
be completed within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor
areas. (1996 Code app. A § 11.4-5.1; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Two-Family Dwellings: Two-family dwelling structures shall have a total
floor area of not less than six hundred (600) square feet of floor area per
dwelling unit measured from the outside walls, including utility rooms, but
excluding all other areas not used for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
(1996 Code app. A § 11.4-5.2; amd. 2010 Code)
ARTICLE E. R-5 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6E-1: Permitted Uses
11-6E-2: Building Height
11-6E-3: Lot Size
11-6E-4: Yard Areas
11-6E-5: Courts
11-6E-6: Dwelling Standards
11-6E-1: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the R-4 district.
Boarding and lodging houses.
Multiple-family dwellings and apartments.
One-family row dwellings (party wall type) with not more than six (6) dwelling
units in a building.
Signs, as defined and regulated in chapter 12 of this title.
Tourist homes having not more than five (5) rooms for transient guests.
Transitional uses: principal offices of physicians, dentists, lawyers,
architects, real estate brokers and other professional occupations, when
conducted in a residential structure used primarily as a home and when located
on lots having a side line adjoining a lot in a business or manufacturing
district or adjacent to a railroad right of way or when facing a business or
manufacturing district or a railroad right of way directly across a street or
alley; provided, that:
   A.   The lot on which the transitional use is located does not extend more
than seventy five feet (75') from the adjoining business or manufacturing
district, or more than one hundred twenty feet (120') in depth from the street
line in cases where the lot does not adjoin, but faces a B or M district.
   B.   The home occupations are conducted in conjunction with the use of a
dwelling unit as a home by the occupant thereof, with not more than two (2)
employees other than members of the related family, and that the residential
character of the exterior of the dwelling is not changed. Medical clinics are
not included or permitted. (1996 Code app. A § 11.5-1)
11-6E-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to exceed three
(3) stories nor shall it exceed forty five feet (45') in height. (1996 Code
app. A § 11.5-2)
11-6E-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered as a multiple-
family dwelling, apartment or row dwelling of more than two (2) dwelling units
shall provide a lot area per dwelling unit of not less than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet. (1996 Code app. A § 11.5-3)
   B.   No building hereafter erected or structurally altered in the R-
5 multiple-family district shall have a total lot area of less than six
thousand (6,000) square feet, nor a lot width of less than sixty feet (60').
(1996 Code app. A § 11.5-3; amd. 2010 Code)
11-6E-4: YARD AREAS:
No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot
areas are provided and maintained in connection with such structure or
enlargement: (1996 Code app. A § 11.5-4)
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet
(20'). (1996 Code app. A § 11.5-4.1)
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than five feet (5') and a combined total of side yards of
not less than fifteen feet (15') for all multiple-family dwellings of not more
than two (2) stories in height.
      2.   For each additional story added above the two (2) stories, the side
yard on each side of the main building shall be increased two feet (2') in
width.
      3.   On corner lots, the side yard on the intersecting street side shall
be not less than ten feet (10'), except in the case of a reversed corner lot,
where there shall be a side yard on the street side of the corner lot of not
less than fifty percent (50%) of the front yard required in the lots in the
rear of such corner lot. No accessory building on said reversed corner lot
shall project beyond the front yard line required on the key lot in the rear,
nor be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot line of such key lot.
(1996 Code app. A § 11.5-4.2)
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20') for interior lots nor less than fifteen feet (15') on corner lots. (1996
Code app. A § 11.5-4.3)
   D.   Permitted Obstructions: The same regulations shall apply as required in
the R-1 district. (1996 Code app. A § 11.5-4.4)
11-6E-5: COURTS:
No inner court or courts completely surrounded on all sides by a building shall
be permitted. Outer courts are permitted, provided the depth of the court is no
greater than the width of the court. (1996 Code app. A § 11.5-5)
11-6E-6: DWELLING STANDARDS:
The minimum floor area requirements for one-family detached dwellings and two-
family dwellings shall be the same as required in the R-4 two-family dwelling
district (section
11-6D-5 of this chapter). (1996 Code app. A § 11.5-6)
ARTICLE F. R-6 RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-6F-1: Development Standards
11-6F-2: Permitted Uses
11-6F-3: Building Height
11-6F-4: Lot Size
11-6F-5: Permitted Obstructions In Yard Areas
11-6F-6: Dwelling Standards
11-6F-7: Recreation Areas
11-6F-1: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Mobile home parks are subject to review and approval and to the development
standards for mobile home parks contained in title 10, chapter 11 of this code.
(1996 Code app. A § 11.6)
11-6F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory buildings, as defined in section
11-2-3 of this title and as regulated by section
11-5-6 of this title.
Coin operated laundry facilities and other uses and structures customarily
incidental to the operation of a mobile home park.
Mobile home dwellings.
Mobile home park management headquarters.
Off street parking facilities, as required or permitted by chapter 13 of this
title.
Recreational facilities, including parks and playgrounds.
Signs, as regulated by chapter 12 of this title. (1996 Code app. A § 11.6-1)
11-6F-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum height of buildings permitted shall be fifteen feet (15') for
mobile homes. (1996 Code app. A § 11.6-2)
11-6F-4: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Mobile Home Park: The park shall contain not less than five (5) nor
more than ten (10) contiguous acres and shall be under single ownership or
control; except, that minimum area may be less than five (5) acres where the
proposed park is located adjacent to an existing mobile home park containing an
area of five (5) acres or more. (1996 Code app. A § 11.6-3.1)
   B.   Lots In Parks:
      1.   The minimum mobile home lot size in mobile home parks shall be not
less than three thousand (3,000) square feet, and the density shall not exceed
ten (10) units per acre.
      2.   All mobile homes shall be set back twenty feet (20') from the
street, shall have a setback of five feet (5') on the side adjacent to the
parking area on the adjoining lot and fifteen feet (15') on the side with the
parking area, and shall have a setback of ten feet (10') in the rear. (1996
Code app. A § 11.6-3.2; amd. 2010 Code)
11-6F-5: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN YARD AREAS:
The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-1 district. (1996 Code
app. A § 11.6-4.2)
11-6F-6: DWELLING STANDARDS:
Dwelling standards for mobile homes shall conform to the requirements of title
10, chapter 11 of this code and all sections of this article. (1996 Code app. A
§ 11.6-5; amd. 2010 Code)
11-6F-7: RECREATION AREAS:
All mobile home parks shall have five percent (5%) of the land area dedicated
for recreational purposes. (1996 Code app. A § 11.6-6)
ARTICLE G. R-7 RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-6G-1: Purpose
11-6G-2: Permitted Uses
11-6G-3: Building Height
11-6G-4: Lot Size And Density
11-6G-5: Yard Areas
11-6G-6: Dwelling Standards
11-6G-1: PURPOSE:
R-7 residential cluster developments are designed to provide for alternative
modes of residential developments with a greater variety in type, design and
layout, while maintaining the character of an owner occupied neighborhood. This
district would allow for the high density housing of multiple-family districts
while requiring owners to occupy property and associated building. (Ord. 1176,
4-23-1996)
11-6G-2: PERMITTED USES:
Duplexes (special case of cluster development).
Elderly housing where the individual owns the lot and structure on the lot.
Golf, tennis, outdoor recreation.
Off street parking facilities, as required or permitted by chapter 13 of this
title.
Private, noncommercial gardens.
Residential cluster developments (row houses), single-family attached dwelling
units and single-family detached dwelling units; for the purpose of this
section, a "row house (townhouse)" is a multiple-family dwelling containing two
(2) or more attached dwelling units, each on its own plot of ground and joined
to one (end unit) or two (2) (interior units) dwelling units by firewalls. Each
dwelling unit shall occupy the internal space from the ground to the roof.
Signs, as regulated by chapter 12 of this title.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year. (Ord. 1176, 4-23-1996)
11-6G-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or other structure erected in an R-7 district shall exceed twenty
five feet (25') in height and be over two and one- half (21/2) stories. (Ord.
1176, 4-23-1996)
11-6G-4: LOT SIZE AND DENSITY:
There shall be a minimum lot size of three thousand six hundred (3,600) square
feet when served by public water and by public sanitary sewer facilities, and a
width at the established building line of not less than forty feet (40'). The
density of this district shall not exceed eight and one-half (8.5) dwelling
units per acre. (Ord. 1176, 4-23-1996)
11-6G-5: YARD AREAS:
No buildings shall be enlarged or erected unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building structure or
enlargement.
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
   B.   Side Yard: Lots beginning or ending a cluster development (row house)
shall have a ten foot (10') minimum side yard on one side. Interior lots of
cluster developments require no side yards.
   C.   Rear Yard: Every lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
rear yard of not less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 1176, 4-23-1996)
   D.   Permitted Obstructions: The same regulations apply as required in the
R-1 district. (Ord. 1176, 4-23-1996; amd. 2010 Code)
11-6G-6: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   One-Story Dwellings: Every one-story dwelling hereafter erected in any
R-7 cluster development shall have total ground floor area of not less than
seven hundred twenty (720) square feet measured from the outside of the
exterior walls, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open
porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or
during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes.
   B.   Dwellings Over One Story: Every dwelling of more than one story
hereafter erected in any R-7 cluster development shall have a total floor area,
measured from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than nine hundred
(900) square feet, including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements,
open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently
or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping purposes; except,
that enclosed space intended for habitable rooms which are to be completed
within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such floor areas. (Ord.
1176, 4-23-1996; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 7
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Purpose
11-7-2: Permitted Uses
11-7-3: Building Height
11-7-4: Yard Areas
11-7-1: PURPOSE:
The business districts set forth in this chapter are established to protect
public health, to promote public safety, comfort, convenience and the general
welfare and to protect the economic base of the city and the value of property.
These general purposes include, among others, the following specific
objectives: (1996 Code app. A § 12.1)
   A.   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan so that adequate space is provided in appropriate locations for
the various types of business uses, thereby protecting and strengthening the
economic base of the city. (1996 Code app. A § 12.1-1)
   B.   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create noise,
odors, hazards or unsightliness, or which may generate excessive traffic. (1996
Code app. A § 12.1-2)
   C.   To permit selected business uses in districts where adjacency to or
inclusion in a residential area has sufficient elements of service or
convenience to such areas to offset the disadvantage. (1996 Code app. A § 12.1-
3)
   D.   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion. (1996 Code app. A § 12.1-4)
11-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   B-1 Business District, Offices: All of the following permitted uses,
except the required off street parking facilities, shall be conducted wholly
within an enclosed building:
Any similar type business or professional offices not specifically permitted
herein.
Banks and financial institutions.
Churches and accessory buildings, not including convents, monasteries,
rectories or parsonage.
Currency exchanges.
Day care.
Employment agency.
Loan offices.
Offices, business and professional, including medical clinics.
Optician, optometrist.
Postal substations, finance stations and contract stations.
Public utility collection offices.
Savings and loan associations.
Travel bureau and transportation ticket office.
Undertaking establishments or funeral homes.
   B.   B-2 Business District, Stores: All of the following permitted uses,
except the required off street parking facilities, shall be conducted wholly
within an enclosed building:
Any similar type retail stores not specifically permitted herein and which have
economic compatibility with the established use on adjoining properties.
Antique shops.
Art and school supply store.
Art galleries and studios.
Auto accessory store, where there is no driveway entrance across the sidewalk
into the main building.
Bakery shop, including the baking and processing of food products when prepared
for retail use on the premises only.
Barbershop, beauty parlor, chiropody, massage or similar personal service shop.
Bicycle sales and repair.
Bookstores.
Camera and photography supply shops for retail sale.
Candy and ice cream shops.
Churches and accessory buildings, not including convents, monasteries,
rectories or parsonage.
Coin and philatelic stores.
Costume rental shop.
Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring or shoe repair when conducted for
retail sales on the premises only.
Day care.
Department stores.
Drugstores.
Dry cleaning and pressing establishments when employing facilities for the
cleaning and pressing of not more than one thousand (1,000) pounds of dry goods
per day, and when using perchlorethylene or similar nonflammable solvents
approved by the fire department.
Dry goods stores.
Dwelling units, provided they are located above the first floor and above a
permitted business use. Dwelling units shall not be permitted on the ground
floor of business buildings or in the rear of business establishments on the
ground floor.
Electrical appliance store and repair, but not including appliance assembly or
manufacturing.
Florist shop and conservatory for retail trade on the premises only.
Food and fruit stores.
Furniture store and upholstery, when conducted as part of the retail operations
and secondary to the main use.
Furrier, when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
Garden supplies and seed stores.
Gift shops.
Hand laundries employing not more than four (4) persons.
Hardware stores.
Hobby stores.
Household appliance store.
Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of draperies, slip
covers, and other similar articles, when conducted as part of the retail
operations and secondary to the main use.
Jewelry and watch repair.
Leather goods and luggage store.
Locksmith.
Meat markets.
Mirror and glazing shop.
Musical instrument sales and repair, retail trade only.
Newsstand.
Notions store.
Orthopedic and medical appliance store, but not including the assembly or
manufacture of such articles.
Paint and wallpaper store.
Pawnshop.
Pet shops, including animal grooming services, but not including veterinary and
animal hospitals.
Photography studio, including the development of film and pictures when
conducted as part of the retail business on the premises.
Physical culture and health service.
Picture framing, when conducted for retail trade only on the premises.
Plumbing showroom and shop.
Public auction rooms.
Secondhand stores and rummage shops.
Sewing machine sales and service.
Shoe store.
Signs, as defined and regulated in chapter 12 of this title.
Sporting goods store.
Stationery, office supply and equipment store, including the sales and service
of equipment.
Taxidermist.
Theaters, with indoor screens, stages and seating.
Tobacco shop.
Toy store.
Variety store.
Video stores.
Wearing apparel shop.
   C.   B-3 Business District, Retail Sales, Restaurants Not Serving Liquor:
Adult education, training, and work centers or facilities, including but not
limited to, offices, classrooms, and training rooms under one roof.
Any similar type facility not specifically permitted herein and which does not
require a liquor license and therefore does not serve liquor on the premises.
Automobile sales and service shops, but not including automobile body repair
and rebuilding or painting of automobiles.
Automobile service stations.
Boat sales and service shops, but not including boat body repair and rebuilding
or painting of boats.
Bowling alleys, billiard halls and poolrooms.
Catering service.
Day care.
Fraternal organizations, clubs, and lodge halls.
Launderette and laundromat.
Motels and hotels.
Motorcycle sales and service.
Restaurants, including drive-in and car service, tearoom or cafe.
Schools: music, dance, business, commercial or trade.
Storage of household goods.
Veterinary or animal hospitals. (1996 Code app. A § 12.2-1; amd. Ord. 1182, 6-
4-1996; Ord. 1210, 7-29-1997; Ord. 1214, 8-26-1997; 2010 Code; Ord. 1779, 4-19-
2022; Ord. 1819, 11-12-2025)
11-7-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   B-1 And B-2 Districts: In a B-1 business district, offices, and B-
2 business district, stores, no building or structure shall be erected or
structurally altered to exceed a height of three (3) stories, nor shall it
exceed forty five feet (45') in height. Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling
towers, elevator bulkheads, stacks and necessary mechanical appurtenances may
be erected over and above the maximum height of forty five feet (45'), provided
they are constructed in accordance with all other ordinances of the city.
   B.   B-3 And B-4 Districts: In a B-3 business district and a B-4 business
district, no building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to
exceed a height of six (6) stories, nor shall said building or structure exceed
seventy five feet (75') in height. Parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances may be
erected over and above the maximum height of seventy five feet (75'), provided
they are constructed in accordance with all other ordinances of the city. (Ord.
1192, 12-17-1996)
11-7-4: YARD AREAS:
In all business districts, no building shall be constructed or enlarged unless
the following yards are provided and maintained in connection with such
building:
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   No front yard shall be required when all frontage between two (2)
intersecting streets lie within this district. However, when lots within this
district are adjacent to and adjoining lots in an R district, all of which
front upon the same street between two (2) intersecting streets, there shall be
established the same front yard setback for all of the frontage as has been
established in the R district. (Ord. 1192, 12-17-1996)
      2.   When existing buildings located in this district have already been
established at a depth less than required above, then all new buildings may
conform to the same building line. (Ord. 1192, 12-17-1996; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Side Yard: No side yard is required except for a corner lot which abuts
upon an R district, or upon an alley separating this district from an R
district. There shall then be provided a side yard equal to one-half (1/2) the
front yard required in the abutting R district, but in no case more than ten
feet (10'). The setback shall also apply if the business building fronts the
intersecting street, commonly referred to as the side street.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20'); provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be located
thereon, except for the five feet (5') adjacent and parallel to the rear lot
line or alley line, for the storage of motor vehicles and the unloading and
loading of vehicles under roof, as provided in chapter 13 of this title. (Ord.
1192, 12-17-1996)
CHAPTER 8
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Purpose
11-8-1: PURPOSE:
The manufacturing districts set forth in this chapter are established to
protect the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and the general welfare
and to protect the economic base of the city, as well as the value of real
estate, by regulating manufacturing development in appropriate locations. These
general objectives include, among others, the following specific objectives:
(1996 Code app. A § 13.1)
   A.   To protect established residential areas, and the health of families
living therein, by restricting those nearby manufacturing activities which may
create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare, fire
hazards and other objectionable influences, to those areas which are
appropriate therefor. (1996 Code app. A § 13.1-1)
   B.   To provide adequate space in appropriate locations for most types of
manufacturing and related activities so that the economic structure of the
community may be strengthened, and that employment opportunities may be found
in the interest of public prosperity and welfare. (1996 Code app. A § 13.1-2)
   C.   To provide more space for manufacturing activities in locations
accessible to rail and highways, so that the movement of raw materials,
finished products and employees can be carried on efficiently and with a
minimum of danger to public life and property. (1996 Code app. A § 13.1-3)
   D.   To establish proper standards of performance which will restrict
obnoxious manufacturing activities, while at the same time, encourage and
permit the manufacturing activities which have adopted facilities for the
processing of finished products without adversely affecting the health,
happiness, safety, convenience and welfare of the people living and working in
nearby areas. (1996 Code app. A § 13.1-4)
   E.   To protect manufacturing districts from incompatible uses of land by
prohibiting the use of such space for new residential development, thereby
preserving the land for a more appropriate use in accordance with the plans for
city improvement and development. (1996 Code app. A § 13.1-5)
   F.   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan of land use for all of the city, to conserve the use of
property, to promote stability of manufacturing activities and related
development in each area of the community, to enhance and stabilize the value
of land and to protect the tax base of the city. (1996 Code app. A § 13.1-6)
ARTICLE A. M-1 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT, LIMITED
SECTION:
11-8A-1: Permitted Uses
11-8A-2: Building Height
11-8A-3: Areas
11-8A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Since most uses permitted in the M-1 manufacturing district will be in
proximity to residential districts, it is hereby declared that performance
standards shall be high, and that all manufacturing, processing or assembly of
materials and products must be carried on in a manner not injurious or
offensive to the occupants of adjacent premises.
Any use permitted in a B district, but not including residences or apartments,
except such dwelling accommodations as may be needed to house a caretaker or
watchman employed on the premises and his family.
Any other manufacturing establishment that can be operated in compliance with
the requirements of this article.
Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles.
Artificial limb manufacture.
Bedspring and mattress manufacture.
Bicycle manufacture.
Brooms and brushes manufacture.
Canvas and canvas products manufacture.
Carpet and rug cleaning.
Cleaning and dyeing establishments when employing facilities for handling more
than one thousand (1,000) pounds of dry goods per day.
Drapery and bedding manufacture.
Engraving.
Fur goods manufacture, not including tanning or dyeing.
Hosiery manufacture.
Laundries, more than one thousand (1,000) pounds' daily capacity.
Lumber and other building material sales.
Musical instruments manufacture, including pianos and organs.
Plastic products, but not including the processing of the raw materials.
Public utility facilities, i.e., filtration plant, water reservoir or pumping
station, transformer station, electrical substation and distribution center,
gas regulation center and underground gas holder station, and other similar
facilities.
Rubber products (small) such as washers, gloves, footwear and bathing caps, but
excluding rubber and synthetic rubber processing.
Sale of trailers, trucks over two thousand (2,000) pounds, farm implements and
other similar equipment on an open lot.
Shoes and boots manufacture.
Sporting and athletic equipment manufacture.
Storage of household goods.
Tool and die shops.
Tools and hardware manufacture, such as hand tools, bolts, nuts, screws,
cutlery, house hardware, locks and plumbing appliances.
Toys and children's vehicles manufacture.
Wire brush manufacture. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1786, 1-10-
2023)
11-8A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a
height of six (6) stories nor shall it exceed seventy five feet (75') in
height. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
11-8A-3: AREAS:
   A.   Maximum Ground Area: The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings
shall be not more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot or tract on
which a building permit has been issued. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999)
   B.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25') wherein there shall be no structure of any kind or open
storage of materials or equipment. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Side Yard: There shall be a minimum side yard of not less than fifteen
feet (15') on both sides of the building or buildings, but where the property
is adjacent to an R district, there shall be a side yard of not less than
twenty five feet (25') on the side nearest to residential lots. The parking of
private automobiles may be permitted within the side yard areas, but not closer
than five feet (5') to any lot zoned for residential use.
   D.   Rear Yard: A rear yard is not required except where a lot abuts upon an
R district, in which case, there shall be a rear yard of not less than thirty
feet (30'), and no storage of materials or equipment, or the parking of
automobiles, shall take place within the ten feet (10') closest to any
residential lot or lots. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999)
ARTICLE B. M-2 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT, GENERAL
SECTION:
11-8B-1: Permitted Uses
11-8B-2: Building Height
11-8B-3: Yard Areas
11-8B-4: Performance Standards
11-8B-1: PERMITTED USES:
The uses permitted in the M-2 manufacturing district include those
manufacturing, processing or assembling of materials and products which must be
carried on in a manner not injurious or offensive to the occupants of adjacent
premises by reason of emission of odors, fumes or gases, dust, smoke, noise,
vibrations, or fire hazards. Therefore, the following uses may be permitted,
provided there is compliance with the performance standards established in this
article:
Any use permitted in M-1 district.
Any other manufacturing establishment that can be operated in compliance with
the requirements of this article, without creating objectionable noise, odor,
dust, smoke, gas, fumes, or vapor and that is a use compatible with the use and
occupancy of adjoining properties.
Alcoholic beverages.
Automobile painting, repairing, reconditioning, and body and fender repair,
when done within the confines of a structure.
Batteries, manufacture and rebuilding.
Belting.
Boat manufacture and body repair and painting.
Box and crate manufacture.
Brick, tile and terra cotta manufacture.
Building equipment, building materials, such as prefabricated houses,
composition wallboards, partitions and panels manufacture; coal, sand and
gravel yards; yards for contracting equipment, maintenance or operating
equipment of public agencies, or public utilities or materials or equipment of
similar nature.
Bus line shops and garages.
Canning and preserving.
Carpet manufacturing.
Carting, express hauling or storage yards (delivery in the metropolitan area
only).
Ceramic products, pottery and glazed tile.
Chick hatcheries.
Cigarette and cigar manufacture.
Coated fabrics, except rubberized.
Coffin manufacture.
Cork and cork products.
Creameries, dairies, ice cream and ice manufacture.
Drugs and pharmaceutical products.
Dyes, aniline, ink pigments and others.
Electric motors and generators.
Felt manufacture.
Glass products, from previously manufactured glass.
Graphite and graphite products.
Heating appliances and sheet metal products including stoves and ranges.
Machine shops and metal products manufacture, when not equipped with heavy
(exceeding 50 tons' pressure) punch presses, drop forges, riveting and grinding
machines or any other equipment which may create noise, vibration, smoke,
odors, heat, glare or fire hazards exceeding the performance standards made a
part of this article.
Metal polishing and plating.
Motor testing or internal combustion motors.
Perfumes and cosmetics.
Stone, marble and granite grinding and cutting.
Storage of flammable liquids, fats or oil in tanks, each of fifty thousand
(50,000) gallons' or less capacity, but only after the location and protective
measures have been approved by the city council.
Textiles: spinning, weaving, dyeing and printing.
Truck, tractor, trailer or bus storage yards including a truck terminal. (Ord.
1252, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
11-8B-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to
exceed a height of six (6) stories or seventy five feet (75'), except
communications towers and energy windmills. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010
Code)
11-8B-3: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all of the frontage on
one side of the street between intersecting streets, a public area, or a
railroad right of way is located in an M-2 manufacturing district. Where the
frontage on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets is
located partially in an M-2 district and partially in some other district, the
front yard requirements of the other use district shall apply to the M-
2 district.
   B.   Side Yard: Same as required in the M-1 manufacturing district.
   C.   Rear Yard: Same as required in the M-1 manufacturing district. (Ord.
1252, 3-23-1999)
11-8B-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The following requirements shall apply:
   A.   Noise:
      1.   The sound pressure level, to be measured as described below, shall
not exceed the following decibel levels in the designated octave bands when
adjacent to the designated types of use districts:
   SOUND LEVEL IN DECIBELS
Octave Band Cycles Per Second All Residential Districts B-1, B-2, B-3 Districts
Octave Band Cycles Per Second All Residential Districts B-1, B-2, B-3 Districts
37.5 to 75                    58                        73
75 to 150                     54                        69
150 to 300                    50                        65
300 to 600                    46                        61
600 to 1,200                  40                        55
1,200 to 2,400                33                        48
2,400 to 4,800                26                        41
Over 4,800                    20                        35
 
      2.   Objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature which are not easily
measured shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      3.   Measurement of sounds is to be made at the nearest boundary of the
nearest residential area or at any other point along the boundary where the
level is higher. The sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter
and associated octave band filter as prescribed by the American Standards
Association.
   B.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission of smoke or dust by
manufacturing plants in an amount sufficient to create a general nuisance to
adjoining properties shall be prohibited. Total emission of smoke and
particulate matter shall be limited to the following:
      1.   Ringelmann Requirements: All smoke and the emission of all other
particulate matter in quantities sufficient to produce an opacity at any point
greater than Ringelmann 3 is prohibited. The only exception shall be a plume
consisting entirely of condensed steam. A "Ringelmann 1 unit" is defined as
twenty percent (20%) density for one minute. No more than fifteen (15) units of
Ringelmann smoke shall be permitted per hour, and no smoke more intense than
Ringelmann 2; except, that during one hour of a twenty four (24) hour day,
thirty (30) units of smoke may be emitted but with no smoke more intense than
Ringelmann 3. The total quantity of emitted solids shall not exceed one pound
per hour, per acre of lot area.
   C.   Odors: No odors shall be emitted by any use permitted in this district
in such quantities as to be readily detectible by an average observer at any
point on the boundary line of the premises or beyond.
   D.   Noxious Gases: Processes and operations of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases or toxic particulates into the atmosphere must be hooded or
otherwise suitably enclosed. The emission of such toxic gases or particulate
matter shall be from a stack.
   E.   Glare And Heat: Operations producing intense light or heat shall be
performed within an enclosed building and not visible beyond any lot line
bounding the property whereon the use is conducted.
   F.   Vibrations: There shall be no uses which create heavy, earth shaking
vibrations which are noticeable at the property line of the subject premises.
(Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999)
ARTICLE C. M-3 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT, INDUSTRIAL
SECTION:
11-8C-1: Permitted Uses
11-8C-2: Building Height
11-8C-3: Yard Areas
11-8C-4: Performance Standards
11-8C-1: PERMITTED USES:
The uses permitted in the M-3 manufacturing district generally include those
manufacturing and industrial activities which cannot be operated economically
without creating some conditions which may be obnoxious or objectionable to the
occupants of adjoining properties and, for that reason, must be grouped in
areas where similar industrial uses are now located or where the permitted uses
will be best located in accordance with the comprehensive land use plan of the
city, which is designed to protect the welfare of the community.
Acetylene gas manufacture.
Acid manufacture.
Animal slaughterhouse and stockyards.
Electric power plant.
Incinerator or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal or refuse, except for
municipal purposes.
Junkyards and automobile wrecking yards.
Lumber, preserving treatment, processing, sawmills and planing mills.
Machinery, heavy manufacturing and repair, including electrical, construction,
mining and agriculture.
Meat and fish products, packing and processing of, but not including
slaughtering and glue and size manufacturing.
Metal foundries, casting and smelting.
Metal stamping and extrusion of metal products.
Petroleum refining.
Railroad products, such as railroad car and locomotive manufacture.
Rock crushing.
Rubber products, including tires and tubes and tire recapping.
Stone mill or quarry.
Sulfuric, nitric, hydrochloric or picric acid manufacture.
Tar roofing or waterproofing manufacture.
Vinegar manufacture.
In general, those uses which have been declared a nuisance in any court of
record or which are, or may be, unreasonably obnoxious or offensive, in the
opinion of the building official, by reason of the emission of odor, vapor,
smoke, gas or noise. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
11-8C-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to
exceed a height of six (6) stories or seventy five feet (75'), except
communications towers and energy windmills. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010
Code)
11-8C-3: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all of the frontage on
one side of the street between intersecting streets, a public area, or a
railroad right of way is located in an M-3 manufacturing district. Where the
frontage on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets is
located partially in an M-3 district and partially in some other use district,
the yard requirements from the other use district shall apply to the M-
3 district. (Ord. 1252, 3-23-1999)
   B.   Side Yard: Same as required in the M-1 manufacturing district.
   C.   Rear Yard: Same as required in the M-1 manufacturing district. (Ord.
1252, 3-23-1999; amd. 2010 Code)
11-8C-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The following requirements shall apply:
   A.   Noise: The sound pressure levels shall be the same as those permitted
in the M-2 manufacturing district.
   B.   Smoke And Particulate Matter: The emission of smoke or dust in an
amount sufficient to create a general nuisance to occupants of adjoining
properties or to the occupants in the general area wherein the use is located
shall be prohibited.
   C.   Odors: No odors shall be emitted by any use permitted in this district
in such quantities as to be readily detected by an average observer at any
point on the boundary line of the nearest residential or business district.
   D.   Noxious Gases: Processes and operation of permitted uses capable of
dispersing gases or toxic particulates into the atmosphere must be hooded or
otherwise suitably enclosed. The emission of such toxic gases or particulate
matter shall be from a stack not less than twenty five feet (25') in height.
   E.   Glare And Heat: Operations producing intense light or heat, when
adjacent to a residential or business district, shall be performed within an
enclosed building and not be visible beyond the boundary separating the subject
premises from any adjoining residential or business district.
   F.   Vibrations: There shall be no uses which create heavy, earth shaking
vibrations which are noticeable at any district boundaries separating
residential and business uses from an M-3 manufacturing district. (Ord. 1252,
3-23-1999)
CHAPTER 9
MEDICAL USE AND ADULT-USE CANNABIS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Purpose And Applicability
11-9-2: Special Use Permit; State License; Fees
11-9-3: Medical Use And Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components
11-9-4: Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
11-9-5: Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center Or Medical Use Cannabis
Cultivation Center
11-9-6: Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization Or Medical Use Cannabis
Dispensing Organization
11-9-7: Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization
11-9-8: Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization
11-9-9: Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization
11-9-10: Cannabis Paraphernalia Retail Establishment
11-9-11: Additional Requirements; Security
11-9-12: Advertising And Promotions
11-9-13: Co-Location Of Cannabis Business Establishments, Accessory Uses
11-9-14: On-Premises Consumption Prohibited
11-9-15: Jurisdiction
11-9-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   It is the intent and purpose of this Chapter to provide regulations
regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of medical use cannabis,
adult-use cannabis, and retail sales of cannabis paraphernalia as defined
herein, occurring within the corporate limits of the City of Jerseyville and
within the one and one- half mile extra-jurisdictional area around the City.
Such facilities shall comply with all applicable regulations provided in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130 et seq.)
("Medical Use Act") and the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705 et
seq.) ("Adult-Use Act"), as they may be amended from time-to-time, and
applicable regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided in
this Chapter and the Jerseyville Zoning Code, as they may be amended from time-
to-time. In the event the Medical Use Act or the Adult-Use Act conflict with
this Chapter 9, the more restrictive of the state or local regulations shall
apply.
   B.   The number of cannabis business establishments and cannabis
paraphernalia retail establishments within the corporate limits of the City of
Jerseyville and within the one and one-half mile extra-jurisdictional area
around the City shall be determined by resolution of the City Council which
will be placed on file with the City Clerk. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-2: SPECIAL USE PERMIT; STATE LICENSE; FEES:
   A.   Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act facilities, adult-use
cannabis business establishments or facilities, and cannabis paraphernalia
retail establishments, as defined herein, shall require approval as a special
use, and shall be processed in accordance with Chapter 11, Special Uses of this
Title 11, and Section
11-9-3, Medical Use and Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components, as
provided herein. Upon successful completion of all applicable requirements in
Title 11 Zoning, and Chapters 9 and 11, as determined in the sole discretion of
the City, the petitioner shall receive a special use permit authorizing the
operation of the type of medical use facility, adult-use cannabis business
establishment or facility, or cannabis paraphernalia retail establishment,
applied for, or any combination of medical use facility, adult-use facility,
and cannabis paraphernalia retail establishment, if applied for, at the
location applied for. Prior to commencement of operation as a medical use or
adult-use cannabis business establishment or facility, the petitioner shall
provide evidence to the City of issuance of its valid state license to operate
as such. Should the petitioner's state license be suspended or revoked the
petitioner shall cease business operations until such time as the state license
is issued, renewed, or reinstated. The special use permit shall be
automatically revoked if the state license is not issued, renewed, or
reinstated within a period of six (6) consecutive months from the date of
issuance of the special use permit, or from the date of suspension or
revocation of the state license. Reinstatement of the special use permit by the
City shall require re-application for the same. The City may consider the
reasons for the non-issuance, suspension, or revocation of the state license in
making the decision regarding whether to reissue the special use permit.
   B.   Application Fee and Administration and Legal Expenses. Upon submission
of the petition for a special use, the applicant shall pay a non-refundable
application fee of $2,500.00, and a non-refundable deposit of $2,500.00 toward
City administration and legal expenses for processing of the application.
Administration and legal expenses exceeding $2,500.00 will be billed to the
applicant monthly as incurred. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-3: MEDICAL USE AND ADULT-USE CANNABIS FACILITY COMPLIANCE COMPONENTS:
   A.   In determining compliance with all requirements of Title 11 Zoning, and
Chapter 11, Special Uses of this Title, the following components of the medical
use or adult-use cannabis business establishment or facility shall be evaluated
based on the definitions of each such cannabis business establishment as
defined in Chapter 2 of said title and the entirety of the circumstances
affecting the particular property in the context of the existing and intended
future use of the property and the following additional information:
      1.   A copy of the applicant's state of Illinois application and all
supporting materials, including the state approved license to do business.
      2.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
      3.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co- tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
      4.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
      5.   Anticipated parking and loading demand based on Chapter 13, Off
Street Parking and Loading, and the available public and private parking
supply.
      6.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
      7.   Site location and design, including access points and internal site
circulation.
      8.   Proposed signage plan.
      9.   Compliance with all requirements provided in the Medical Use Act and
the Adult-Use Act, and in Section
11-9-4, Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower; Section
11-9-5, Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center or Medical Use Cannabis
Cultivation Center; Section
11-9-6, Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization or Medical Use Cannabis
Dispensing Organization; Section
11-9-7, Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization; Section
11-9-8, Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization; Section
11-9-9, Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization, or Section
11-9-10, Cannabis Paraphernalia Retail Establishment, as applicable.
      10.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
Title 11 Zoning and Chapter 11, Special Uses of this Title. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-
2023)
11-9-4: ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:
   A.   In those zoning districts in which the facility for an adult-use
cannabis craft grower may be located, the proposed facility must comply with
the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand two hundred (1,200)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, school grounds, playground, recreation
center or facility, childcare center, public park, public library, game arcade
to which admission is not restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or
older, day care center, day care home, church, or church school. Adult learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within five
hundred (500) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable.
      4.   For purposes of determining required lighting, landscaping, signage,
setbacks, surfacing, number, and location of off-street and off-site parking
and loading spaces, an adult-use cannabis craft grower shall be classified as
"Manufacturing and industrial uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-1, Schedule of Parking Requirements, and as "Buildings containing
manufacturing uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-2, Schedule of Loading and Unloading Requirements, provided however,
that the City may require that additional parking or loading spaces be provided
resulting from the analysis completed through Section
11-9-3, Medical Use and Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components,
herein. Construction of and materials for all parking and loading spaces shall
comply with Section
11-13-5.C.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City affirming
compliance with Chapter 9 as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Adult-Use Act. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-5: ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER OR MEDICAL USE CANNABIS
CULTIVATION CENTER:
   A.   In those zoning districts in which a facility for an adult-use cannabis
cultivation center or medical use cannabis cultivation center, or a combined
center, may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand two hundred (1,200)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, school grounds, playground, recreation
center or facility, childcare center, public park, public library, game arcade
to which admission is not restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or
older, day care center, day care home, church, or church school. Adult learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within five
hundred (500) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable.
      4.   For purposes of determining required lighting, landscaping, signage,
setbacks, surfacing, number, and location of off-street and off-site parking
and loading spaces, an adult-use cannabis cultivation center or medical use
cannabis cultivation center, or combined center, shall be classified as
"Manufacturing and industrial uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-1 Schedule of Parking Requirements "Manufacturing and industrial uses,
... " per Section
11-13-6-1 Schedule of Parking Requirements, and as "Buildings containing
manufacturing uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-2, Schedule of Loading and Unloading Requirements, provided however,
that the City may require that additional parking or loading spaces be provided
resulting from the analysis completed through Section
11-9-3, Medical Use and Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components,
herein. Construction of and materials for all parking and loading spaces shall
comply with Section
11-13-5.C.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City affirming
compliance with Chapter 9 as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-6: ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION OR MEDICAL USE CANNABIS
DISPENSING ORGANIZATION:
   A.   In those zoning districts in which a facility for an adult-use cannabis
dispensing organization or medical use cannabis dispensing organization, or
combined organization, may be located, the proposed facility must comply with
the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand two hundred (1,200)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, school grounds, playground, recreation
center or facility, childcare center, public park, public library, game arcade
to which admission is not restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or
older, day care center, day care home, church, or church school. Adult learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within five
hundred (500) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable.
      4.   For purposes of determining required lighting, landscaping, signage,
setbacks, surfacing, number, and location of off-street and off-site parking
and loading spaces, an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization or medical
use cannabis dispensing organization, or combined organization, shall be
classified as "Establishments handling the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages, food or refreshments" per Section
11-13-6-1 Schedule of Parking Requirements, and as "Buildings containing
manufacturing uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-2, Schedule of Loading and Unloading Requirements, provided however,
that the City may require that additional or less parking or loading spaces be
provided resulting from the analysis completed through Section
11-9-3, Medical Use and Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components,
herein. Construction of and materials for all parking and loading spaces shall
comply with Section
11-13-5.C.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City affirming
compliance with Chapter 9 as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-7: ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION:
   A.   In those zoning districts in which a facility for an adult-use cannabis
infuser organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with the
following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand two hundred (1,200)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, school grounds, playground, recreation
center or facility, childcare center, public park, public library, game arcade
to which admission is not restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or
older, day care center, day care home, church, or church school. Adult learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within five
hundred (500) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable.
      4.   For purposes of determining required lighting, landscaping, signage,
setbacks, surfacing, number, and location of off-street and off-site parking
and loading spaces, an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization shall be
classified as ""Establishments handling the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages, food or refreshments" per Section
11-13-6-1 Schedule of Parking Requirements, and as "Buildings containing
manufacturing uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-2, Schedule of Loading and Unloading Requirements, provided however,
that the City may require that additional or less parking or loading spaces be
provided resulting from the analysis completed through Section
11-9-3, Medical Use and Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components,
herein. Construction of and materials for all parking and loading spaces shall
comply with Section
11-13-5.C.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City affirming
compliance with Chapter 9 as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-8: ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION:
   A.   In those zoning districts in which a facility for an adult-use cannabis
processing organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply with
the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand two hundred (1,200)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, school grounds, playground, recreation
center or facility, childcare center, public park, public library, game arcade
to which admission is not restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or
older, day care center, day care home, church, or church school. Adult learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within five
hundred (500) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable.
      4.   For purposes of determining required lighting, landscaping, signage,
setbacks, surfacing, number, and location of off-street and off-site parking
and loading spaces, an adult-use cannabis processing organization shall be
classified as "Establishments handling the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages, food or refreshments" per Section
11-13-6-1 Schedule of Parking Requirements, and as "Buildings containing
manufacturing uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-2, Schedule of Loading and Unloading Requirements, provided however,
that the City may require that additional or less parking or loading spaces be
provided resulting from the analysis completed through Section
11-9-3, Medical Use and Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components,
herein. Construction of and materials for all parking and loading spaces shall
comply with Section
11-13-5.C.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City affirming
compliance with Chapter 9 as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-9: ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION:
   A.   In those zoning districts in which a facility for an adult-use
transporting organization may be located, the proposed facility must comply
with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand two hundred (1,200)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, school grounds, playground, recreation
center or facility, childcare center, public park, public library, game arcade
to which admission is not restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or
older, day care center, day care home, church, or church school. Adult learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within five
hundred (500) feet of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or
used for residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable.
      4.   For purposes of determining required lighting, landscaping, signage,
setbacks, surfacing, number, and location of off-street and off-site parking
and loading spaces, adult-use cannabis transporting organization shall be
classified as "Manufacturing and industrial uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-1 Schedule of Parking Requirements, and as "Buildings containing
manufacturing uses, ... " per Section
11-13-6-2, Schedule of Loading and Unloading Requirements, provided however,
that the City may require that additional or less parking or loading spaces be
provided resulting from the analysis completed through Section
11-9-3, Medical Use and Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components,
herein. Construction of and materials for all parking and loading spaces shall
comply with Section
11-13-5.C.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City affirming
compliance with Chapter 9 as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Adult-Use Act or Medical Use Act, as applicable. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-10: CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   In those zoning districts in which a facility for a cannabis
paraphernalia retail establishment may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within one thousand two hundred (1,200)
feet of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, school grounds, playground, recreation
center or facility, childcare center, public park, public library, game arcade
to which admission is not restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or
older, day care center, day care home, church, or church school. Adult learning
centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a public or
private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located within five hundred (500) feet of the
property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
paraphernalia other than as authorized by this Section or the Adult-Use Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required lighting, landscaping, signage,
setbacks, surfacing, number, and location of off-street and off-site parking
and loading spaces, a cannabis paraphernalia retail establishment shall provide
one (1) off-street parking space per one hundred (100) square feet of floor
area, as defined in Section
11-13-2, Definition, and one (1) loading space, provided however, that the City
may require that additional or less parking or loading spaces be provided
resulting from the analysis completed through Section
11-9-3, Medical Use and Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Compliance Components,
herein. Construction of and materials for all parking and loading spaces shall
comply with Section
11-13-5.C.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the City affirming
compliance with Chapter 9 as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Adult-Use Act. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-11: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS; SECURITY:
Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting, or other improvements, as set forth in the special use permit, to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the medical use and adult-use
cannabis business establishments and cannabis paraphernalia retail
establishments, as well as the environs. Said improvements shall be determined
based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for a medical use and/
or an adult-use cannabis business establishment and the site on which it is
located, consistent with the requirements of the Adult-Use Act or Medical Use
Act, as applicable, or the floor plan of the cannabis paraphernalia retail
establishment. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-12: ADVERTISING AND PROMOTIONS:
   A.   No medical use or adult-use cannabis business establishment, or
cannabis paraphernalia retail establishment, nor any other person or entity
shall engage in advertising that contains any statement or illustration that:
      1.   Is false or misleading;
      2.   Promotes overconsumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      3.   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      4.   Depicts a person under twenty-one (21) years of age consuming
cannabis;
      5.   Makes any health, medicinal, or therapeutic claims about cannabis or
cannabis-infused products;
      6.   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf, flower, or bud; or
      7.   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors, including
cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to images,
characters, or phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing to or
encourage consumption by persons under twenty-one (21) years of age.
   B.   No medical use or adult-use cannabis business establishment, or
cannabis paraphernalia retail establishment, nor any other person or entity
shall place or maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, an advertisement
of cannabis or a cannabis-infused product in any form or through any medium:
      1.   Within one thousand two hundred (1,200) feet of the perimeter of
school grounds, a playground, a recreation center or facility, a childcare
center, a public park or public library, or a game arcade to which admission is
not restricted to persons twenty-one (21) years of age or older;
      2.   On or in a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter;
      3.   On or in publicly owned or publicly operated property; or
      4.   That contains information that:
         a.   Is false or misleading;
         b.   Promotes excessive consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
         c.   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
         d.   Depicts a person under twenty-one (21) years of age consuming
cannabis;
         e.   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf, flower, or bud; or
         f.   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to
images, characters, or phrases that are popularly used to advertise to
children, or any imitation of candy packaging or labeling, or that promotes
consumption of cannabis.
   C.   Subsections (A) and (B) above do not apply to an educational message.
   D.   Sales promotions. No medical use or adult-use cannabis business
establishment, or cannabis paraphernalia retail establishment, nor any other
person or entity may encourage the sale of cannabis, cannabis products, or
cannabis paraphernalia by giving away cannabis, cannabis products, or cannabis
paraphernalia, by conducting games, competitions, lotteries, or drawings
related to the sale, giving away of, or consumption of cannabis or cannabis
products, or by providing promotional materials or activities about cannabis,
cannabis products, or cannabis paraphernalia of a manner or type that would be
appealing to children.
   E.   Penalty. A violation of this Section 11-9-12 shall be a Civil Case
punishable as provided in Chapter 4 of the Jerseyville Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-13: CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS, ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   The City may approve the co-location of medical use and adult-use
cannabis dispensing organizations with an adult-use cannabis craft grower, an
adult- use cannabis infuser organization, an adult-use processing organization,
and an adult-use transporting organization, or any combination thereof, subject
to the provisions of the Medical Use Act and Adult-Use Act and the Chapter 11
Special Use criteria.
   B.   Accessory Uses. The City may approve a cannabis paraphernalia retail
establishment as an accessory use with any approved Medical Use and Adult-Use
Cannabis Dispensing Organization facility, subject to the provisions of the
Medical Use Act and Adult-Use Act, Title 11 Zoning, and the Chapter 11 Special
Use criteria. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-14: ON-PREMISES CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED:
Issuance of a special use permit for adult-use dispensing organization
facilities shall not include authority for on-premises consumption of any
cannabis products which is prohibited in the City. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
11-9-15: JURISDICTION:
This Chapter 9 and all related code sections shall be applicable within the
corporate limits of the city and within the recognized adjoining territory
within one and one-half (1-½) miles from the city limits over which the City
has previously adopted control and jurisdiction. (Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
11-10-1: Continuance Of Use
11-10-2: Discontinuance Of Use
11-10-3: Change Of Use
11-10-4: Repairs And Alterations
11-10-5: Damage And Destruction
11-10-6: Additions And Enlargements
11-10-7: Exceptions
11-10-1: CONTINUANCE OF USE:
   A.   Use Of Building Or Land: Any lawfully established use of a building or
land, at the effective date hereof or of amendments hereto, that does not
conform to the use regulations for the district in which it is located shall be
deemed to be a legal nonconforming use and may be continued, except as
otherwise provided herein. (1996 Code app. A § 6.1-1)
   B.   Nonconforming Building Or Structure: Any legal nonconforming building
or structure may be continued in use, provided there is no physical change,
other than necessary maintenance and repair, except as otherwise permitted
herein. (1996 Code app. A § 6.1-2)
11-10-2: DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
   A.   Change To Conforming Use: Whenever any part of a building, structure or
land occupied by a nonconforming use is changed to or replaced by a use
conforming to the provisions of this title, such premises shall not thereafter
be used or occupied by a nonconforming use, even though the building may have
been originally designed and constructed for the prior nonconforming use. (1996
Code app. A § 6.2-1)
   B.   Abandonment Of Use:
      1.   Whenever a nonconforming use of a building or structure, or part
thereof, has been discontinued for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months
or for a continuous period of eighteen (18) months if the building was
originally designed and constructed for a nonresidential use, or whenever there
is evident a clear intent on the part of the owner to abandon a nonconforming
use, such use shall not, after being discontinued or abandoned, be
reestablished, and the use of the premises thereafter shall be in conformity
with the regulations of the district. (1996 Code app. A § 6.2-2)
      2.   Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a
nonconforming use for a period of six (6) months shall constitute abandonment.
(1996 Code app. A § 6.2-3)
   C.   Nonconforming Use Prior To Effective Date Hereof: A nonconforming use
not authorized by the provisions of city ordinances in effect at the effective
date hereof shall be discontinued and not reestablished, except if the
provisions of this title find the use to be conforming to the district in which
it is then located. (1996 Code app. A § 6.2-4)
11-10-3: CHANGE OF USE:
   A.   A nonconforming use of a building or structure, or part thereof, may be
changed to a use of the same or of a more restricted character, but may not
thereafter be changed to any less restricted use. (1996 Code app. A § 6.3-1)
   B.   Any part of a building, structure or land occupied by a nonconforming
use which is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the provisions of
this title shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use.
(1996 Code app. A § 6.3-2)
11-10-4: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
   A.   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing a
nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary nonstructural repairs and
incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
(1996 Code app. A § 6.5-1)
   B.   No structural alterations shall be made in a building or other
structure containing a nonconforming use, except in the following situations:
      1.   When the alteration is required by law.
      2.   When the alteration will actually result in eliminating the
nonconforming use.
      3.   When a building containing residential nonconforming uses may be
altered in any way to improve livability, provided no structural alteration
shall be made which would increase the number of dwelling units or the bulk of
the building. (1996 Code app. A § 6.5-2)
11-10-5: DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION:
If a building or other structure containing a nonconforming use is damaged or
destroyed by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its
replacement value at that time, the building or other structure can be rebuilt
or used thereafter only for a conforming use and in compliance with the
provisions of the district. In the event the damage or destruction is less than
fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, based upon prevailing costs, the
building may then be restored to its original condition, and the occupancy or
use of such building may be continued which existed at the time of such partial
destruction. In either event, restoration or repair of the building or other
structure must be started within a period of one year and diligently prosecuted
to completion. (1996 Code app. A § 6.6)
11-10-6: ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS:
   A.   A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only if the entire
building is thereafter devoted to a conforming use and is made to conform to
all the regulations of the district in which it is located. (1996 Code app. A §
6.7-1)
   B.   No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be altered
in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied
by such nonconforming use. (1996 Code app. A § 6.7-2)
   C.   No nonconforming building in any residential district shall be so
altered as to increase the number of dwelling units therein. (1996 Code app. A
§ 6.7-3)
   D.   No nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required usable open space, or any land beyond the boundaries of the
zoning lot as it existed at the effective date hereof, or to displace any
conforming use in the same building or on the same parcel. (1996 Code app. A §
6.7-4)
11-10-7: EXCEPTIONS:
Wherever a lawfully existing building or other structure otherwise conforms to
the use regulations of this title, but is nonconforming only in the particular
manner hereinafter specified, the building and use thereof shall be exempt from
the requirements of section
11-10-4 of this chapter: (1996 Code app. A § 6.8-1; amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   In any R district, where a dwelling is nonconforming only as to the
number of dwelling units it contains, provided no such building shall be
altered in any way so as to increase the number of dwelling units therein.
   B.   In any R-5 district, where a use permitted in the B-1 district occupies
ground floor space within a multiple-family dwelling located on a corner lot.
   C.   In any B or M district, where the use is less distant from an R
district than that specified in the regulations for the district in which it is
located. (1996 Code app. A § 6.8-1)
CHAPTER 11
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
11-11-1: Purpose
11-11-2: Authority; Special Uses Enumerated
11-11-3: Conditions Of Approval
11-11-4: Procedure
11-11-5: City Council Action
11-11-1: PURPOSE:
The principal objective of this title is to provide for an orderly arrangement
of compatible building and land uses, and for the proper location of all types
of uses required for the social and economic welfare of the City. To accomplish
this objective, each type and kind of use is classified as permitted in one or
more of the various districts established by this title. However, in addition
to those uses specifically classified and permitted in each district, there are
certain additional uses which it may be necessary to allow because of their
unusual characteristics or the service they provide the public. These special
uses require particular consideration as to their proper location in relation
to adjacent established or intended uses, or to the planned development of the
community. The conditions controlling the location and operation of such
special uses are established by the provisions of this chapter. (1996 Code app.
A § 7.1)
11-11-2: AUTHORITY; SPECIAL USES ENUMERATED:
The City Council shall have authority to permit the following uses of land or
structures, or both, subject to conditions contained herein, if it finds that
the proposed location and establishment of any such use will be desirable or
necessary to the public convenience or welfare and will be harmonious and
compatible with other uses adjacent to and in the vicinity of the selected site
or sites:
   Agriculture research centers and facilities, including but not limited to,
green houses, warehouses, livestock buildings and pens, and crop and vegetable
growing research fields and plots in any M-2 or M-3 District and in the
surrounding extra-jurisdictional one and one-half (1 ½) mile area.
   Airport, heliport, landing field or landing strip, in any use district
subject to the Civil Aeronautics Administration certifying that a new or
reoriented runway will not interfere with the flight pattern of any established
airport, landing field or landing strip.
   Alcohol sales at retail for consumption on premises or off at any of the
following or similar establishments: bars, bowling alleys, billiard and pool
rooms, catering and food services, clubs, dance halls, fraternal organizations
and lodge halls, meeting halls, motels and hotels, liquor stores, restaurants,
taverns, and theaters, in a B-2, B-3 or M-1 Use District. This special use is
transferable under certain limited circumstances as provided in subsection
4-2-13A of this Code.
   Areas for the dumping or disposal of trash or garbage, in M Districts only.
   Auditorium, stadium, arena, armory, gymnasium and other similar places of
public events in any B or M District unless located adjacent to or as part of a
school or church.
   Boarding house.
   Bus terminal, railroad passenger station, freight terminal or any other
public transportation terminal facilities, in any use district.
   Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums, in any use district.
   Commercial energy windmills in an M-2 or M-3 District.
   Commercial Solar Energy Systems (CSES) in any M-2 or M-3 District and in the
surrounding extra-jurisdictional one and one-half (1½) mile area, except that
CSES buildings or structures in the extra-jurisdictional area shall be required
to conform to setback and height regulations as follows:
      Front Yard: Each lot or parcel of land on which a CSES is constructed
shall have a front yard of not less than seventy-five feet (75').
      Side Yard: On lots or parcels upon which a CSES is constructed, or
extensions made to an existing CSES, there shall be a side yard of not less
than fifty feet (50') from the closest free-standing ground-mounted, solar
arrays or modules or battery storage facility. Such setback is waived between
properties that are both participants in the same CSES, subject to a recorded
written waiver of the setback executed by both property owners.
      Rear Yard: Each lot or parcel of land upon which a CSES is constructed
shall have a rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30').
      Building Height: The maximum height of CSES improvements, other than
Electrical Transmission Poles, substations and their related improvements,
shall not exceed twenty-five feet (25').
      Residential Setback: In addition to the above yard setbacks, all CSES
buildings or structures in the extra-jurisdictional area shall be constructed
no less than three hundred (300') feet from any residential dwelling measured
in a straight line from one building or structure to the other, except that
this Residential Setback shall not apply to residential dwellings located
solely on property or adjacent properties, which have been leased to or are
owned by an individual or entity constructing a CSES on said property or
adjacent properties.
   Day care, defined as supervision of and care for children or physically or
mentally disabled adults that is provided during the day by a person or
organization at a facility at the designated location, in an R-5 Residential
District.
   Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials, in any M District.
   Golf courses, public or private, in any use district.
   Hospitals or sanatoriums, public or private, in any use district other than
an M District.
   Institutions or hospitals for the care of the mentally challenged, public or
private, in any use district other than an M District.
   Kennels in any Business or Manufacturing District.
   Medical use and/or adult-use cannabis business establishment or facility and
cannabis paraphernalia retail establishment in any B-3 or M-3 District and in
the surrounding extra-jurisdictional one and one-half (1-1/2) mile area from
the city limits.
   Municipal or privately owned recreation building or community center, in any
use district.
   Off street public parking areas and garages, in any R-4 or R-5 District,
provided there is a need for this facility, and that no appropriate site is
available in nearby Business or Manufacturing Districts.
   Penal or correctional institutions, in any use district.
   Police station or fire station, in any district.
   Public buildings, including art gallery, library, museum or similar
structures, in any R-5 or B-2 District.
   Public or private park or playground, in any use district.
   Public or privately owned and operated fairgrounds, permanent carnivals,
"kiddie parks" or other similar amusement centers, in any B-3 or M District.
   Public utility facilities, i.e., filtration plant, water reservoir or
pumping station, transformer station, electrical substation and distribution
center, gas regulation center and underground gas holder station, and other
similar facilities, in any use district other than the M Districts where such
facilities are permitted uses.
   Radio and television transmitting or antenna towers (commercial) and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor structures and including antenna towers
used for the sending of private messages, but not including private receiving
aerials or antennas, in M-2 or M-3 District.
   Railroad right-of-way, in any use district.
   Rest homes and nursing homes, in any R-5 or B District; provided, that when
located in a Business District, such uses shall be established above the first
floor when located in a building constructed for a business use. A building
originally constructed for residential use in a Business District may be used
in whole or in part for rest homes or nursing homes.
   Schools, elementary, high and college, public or private, in any R District.
   Telephone exchanges, antenna towers and other outdoor equipment essential to
the operation of the exchange, in any M-2 or M-3 District. (1996 Code app. A §
7.2; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1738, 1-29-2019; Ord. 1767, 6-15-2021; Ord. 1779, 4-
19-2022; Ord. 1802, 11-14-2023; Ord. 1817, 10-15-2024)
11-11-3: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
The Planning and Zoning Board may recommend and the City Council may impose
such restrictions upon the height, bulk and area of occupancy of any structure
so approved for special use as may be reasonable under the particular
circumstances. Off street parking facilities, as well as off street loading and
unloading spaces, may also be stipulated in the order permitting the special
use. (1996 Code app. A § 7.3; amd. 2010 Code)
11-11-4: PROCEDURE:
The procedure to be followed in considering applications for special uses shall
be the same as provided in section
11-3-4 of this title. (1996 Code app. A § 7.4; amd. 2010 Code)
11-11-5: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
The City Council may then authorize a special use, as defined in sections
11-11-1 and
11-11-2 of this chapter, by specific ordinance, provided the evidence presented
is such as to establish beyond reasonable doubt: (1996 Code app. A § 7.4-3;
amd. 2010 Code)
   A.   That the proposed use at the particular location is necessary or
desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the interest of public
convenience and will contribute to the general welfare of the neighborhood or
community; and
   B.   That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular case,
be detrimental to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property values or
improvements in the vicinity; and
   C.   That the proposed use will comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in this title for such use and with the stipulations and conditions
made a part of the authorization granted by the City Council. (1996 Code app. A
§ 7.4-3)
CHAPTER 12
SIGNS
ARTICLE A. PURPOSE; JURISDICTION; INTERPRETATION; LIABILITY
SECTION:
11-12A-1: Purpose
11-12A-2: Jurisdiction
11-12A-3: Interpretation
11-12A-4: Disclaimer Of Liability
11-12A-1: PURPOSE:
In accordance with state law, this chapter establishes comprehensive
regulations for the control of signs and other street graphics in order to
preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
More specifically, this chapter is intended to assist in achieving the
following objectives:
   A.   To authorize the use of street graphics which are:
      1.   Compatible with their surroundings and the zoning district in which
they are located;
      2.   Expressive of the image the city desires to project;
      3.   Appropriate to the type of establishment or activity to which they
pertain; and
      4.   Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen;
   B.   To foster high quality commercial and industrial development, and to
enhance the economic vitality of existing businesses/industries by promoting
the reasonable, orderly, and effective display of street graphics;
   C.   To encourage sound street graphics display practices, and to mitigate
the objectionable effects of competition in respect to the size and placement
of street graphics;
   D.   To enhance the physical appearance of the city by protecting the
manmade and natural beauty of the area;
   E.   To protect pedestrians and motorists from any damage or injury that
might result from the improper construction, placement, or use of street
graphics;
   F.   To protect the public investment in streets and highways by reducing
the obstructions and distractions which might cause traffic accidents;
   G.   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the compatibility
of street graphics with nearby land uses; and
   H.   To protect the physical and mental well being of the general public by
recognizing and encouraging a sense of aesthetic appreciation for the visual
environment. (2010 Code)
11-12A-2: JURISDICTION:
This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the city and
within the recognized one and one-half (11/2) mile area surrounding the city
over which the city has adopted control. (2010 Code)
11-12A-3: INTERPRETATION:
Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of the
city. Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from the requirements of
the highway advertising control act of 1971, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes
440/1 et seq., the more stringent standard shall apply. Whenever the
requirements of this chapter differ from the requirements of any previously
adopted ordinance or regulation, the ordinances or parts thereof that conflict
with the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed. (2010 Code)
11-12A-4: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   A.   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent, or employee of the city shall render himself
personally liable for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under
this chapter. (See local governmental and governmental employees tort immunity
act, 745 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1-101.)
   B.   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent, or employee
of the city as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his duties under this chapter shall be defended by the city attorney until the
final determination of the legal proceedings.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to create a private cause of action
in any person, business or corporation. And, specifically, no consequential
damages may be sought for loss of profits or business opportunity. (2010 Code)
ARTICLE B. RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-12B-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-12B-2: Definitions
11-12B-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this chapter, the
following rules shall be observed:
   A.   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in section
11-12B-2 of this article; terms not defined in said section
11-12B-2 shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in section
11-2-3 of this title; if any term is not defined either in section
11-12B-2 of this article or section
11-2-3 of this title, said term shall have the standard English dictionary
meaning.
   B.   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   C.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   D.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   E.   The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is discretionary.
   F.   The term "the city" shall mean the city of Jerseyville, Illinois.
   G.   The word "person" means any individual, partnership, copartnership,
company, limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock
company, trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity or
their legal representatives, agents or assigns.
   H.   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches (6") or more shall be deemed one foot (1').
   I.   Reference to sections shall be deemed to include all subsections within
that section; but a reference to a particular subsection designates only that
subsection.
   J.   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(2010 Code)
11-12B-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The zoning administrator of the city which shall be the building
official or his duly authorized representative.
ALTER: To change the size, shape, height, or other similar characteristics of a
street graphic.
AMENDMENT: A change in the provisions of this chapter, properly effected in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
AMORTIZATION: The elimination of nonconforming street graphics over time in
accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
APPEAL: A procedure whereby any person aggrieved by any decision or order of
the administrator in any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of
this chapter may seek relief from the planning and zoning board.
AWNING: Any rooflike structure made of cloth, metal or other material attached
to a building and erected over a window, doorway, etc., in such a manner as to
permit its being raised or retracted to a position against the building, when
not in use.
BEACON LIGHT: A light or fire commonly on a hill, tower, or pole which is used
as a signal for guidance.
BILLBOARD: Any single or double faced street graphic that is permanently fixed
or placed on particular premises and that is used for the display of messages
or advertising not associated with the establishment located on said premises.
A "billboard" typically has provision for changing the message/advertising
thereon.
CANOPY: A rooflike structure similar to an awning; except, that it cannot be
raised or retracted to a position against the building.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign which has provision for changing the message
thereon either manually or electronically, including signs commonly referred to
as "sandwich boards" or which the message may be written in chalk, paint,
marker, vinyl lettering, or other changeable method on one or both sides of the
board.
CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER: A legally binding order to effect compliance with this
chapter, issued by the administrator in accordance with the procedures set
forth herein.
ELECTRONICALLY OPERATED SIGN: See definition of Changeable Copy Sign.
ESTABLISHMENT: Either of the following:
   A.   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity that is
the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
   B.   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building and not a department of the whole; and
      1.   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
      2.   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of the
building or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway that
has direct access to the exterior of the building.
FLUSH MOUNTED SIGN: Any sign attached to or erected against any wall, awning,
canopy, or marquee with the exposed face of said sign in a place approximately
parallel to the plane of the wall, etc., and not projecting more than eighteen
inches (18"). Such sign shall not be painted directly on any exterior wall or
roof.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign supported by one or more uprights, poles, or braces
in or upon the ground in a permanent manner.
FRONTAGE: The linear extent of the lot abutting a street or public roadway, or
the linear extent of the lot abutting a public parking area if the lot has no
street frontage.
LOT: Any tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate or
future) of development or transfer of ownership. The term "lot" may or may not
be synonymous with "lot of record".
MARQUEE: Any canopy made of durable materials that is a permanent fixture of
the building to which it is attached.
MESSAGE: A communication of identification or advertising information visually
perceived. Said communication may consist of words, abbreviations, numbers,
symbols, pictures, geometric shapes, etc.
MOBILE/PORTABLE MARQUEE: A term commonly used to mean any street graphic not
designed to be permanently attached to a building or part thereof or to be
anchored to the ground. Such street graphics primarily include, but are not
limited to, signs attached to wood or metal frames designed to be self-
supporting poles, etc., but shall not include sandwich boards.
NONCONFORMING STREET GRAPHIC: Any street graphic which existed on the effective
date hereof (or amendment hereto), but which does not comply with the
regulations set forth herein.
OFF PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN: See definition of Billboard.
PENNANT: A long tapering flag, usually triangular in shape, but can be
rectangular or square.
PREMISES: Any lot, plus all the structures and uses thereon.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign which is supported by any exterior wall of a building
or suspended beneath any awning, canopy, or marquee with the exposed face of
said sign in a plane approximately perpendicular to the plane of the wall,
etc., and projecting more than eighteen inches (18").
RECONSTRUCT: To erect a street graphic after it has been damaged or destroyed.
RELOCATE: To move a street graphic to another portion of the premises or to a
different premises.
REPLACE: To substitute a street graphic for an existing street graphic.
ROOF MOUNTED SIGN: Any sign erected or maintained on the roof of any building.
ROOFLINE: The edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever forms the
top line of the building silhouette, on the side of the building where the
street graphic is located.
SANDWICH BOARD: A movable sign with changeable copy using chalk, paint, marker,
vinyl lettering, or other changeable method on one or both sides to convey the
message, usually located on the sidewalk in front of a retail business.
SHOPPING CENTER IDENTIFICATION SIGN: Any sign identifying a building or group
of buildings that provides common off street parking facilities, and that is
occupied by two (2) or more retail sales establishments.
SIGN: Any object, device, display, structure, or surface, or part thereof, that
is used to advertise, identify, display, or attract attention to any object,
person, institution, organization, business, project, service, or event related
to the premises on which the sign is situated by any means including words,
letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors, or illumination.
SIGN AREA: The area of the one imaginary square or rectangle that would
completely enclose all parts of a sign including the background.
SIGN AREA ALLOWANCE: The total of the areas of all signs that a particular
establishment is permitted to display under the terms of this chapter.
SPECIAL STREET GRAPHIC PERMIT: A permit by the city council in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter to regulate the design and placement of street
graphics in areas of special control.
STREET FRONTAGE: See definition of Frontage.
STREET GRAPHIC: Any on premises identification or advertising sign, or any
billboard or off premises advertising sign, visible from the public right of
way or from any parking area used by the general public.
STREET GRAPHIC PERMIT: A permit issued by the administrator to regulate the
erection, expansion, alteration, relocation, or reconstruction of street
graphics in all parts of the city except in areas of special control.
STROBE LIGHT: A device that utilizes a flash tube for high speed illumination.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of the requirements of this chapter that are applicable
to a particular street graphic.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign visible from the exterior of the building which is
painted on, affixed to, or suspended immediately behind a window.
Permanent Window Sign: One that is intended to remain on display for thirty
(30) days or more.
Temporary Window Sign: One that is intended to remain on display for less than
thirty (30) days. (2010 Code)
ARTICLE C. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-12C-1: Administration And Enforcement Official
11-12C-2: Permit Requirements
11-12C-3: Nonconforming Signs
11-12C-4: Corrective Action
11-12C-5: Remedial Action; Costs
11-12C-6: Variances, Appeals And Special Uses
11-12C-7: Fees
11-12C-8: Complaints
11-12C-9: Penalties
11-12C-1: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The building official, referred to herein as the "administrator", is hereby
authorized and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the
following specific duties:
   A.   To review and pass upon applications for street graphic permits;
   B.   To inspect existing and newly constructed street graphics to determine
compliance with this chapter, and where there are violations, to initiate
appropriate corrective action;
   C.   To review and forward to the planning and zoning board all applications
for special street graphic permits, variances, appeals, and amendments;
   D.   To maintain up to date records of said applications and of any official
actions taken pursuant thereto;
   E.   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the planning and zoning board;
   F.   To provide information to the general public on matters related to this
chapter; and
   G.   To perform such other duties as the city council may from time to time
prescribe. (2010 Code)
11-12C-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Upon the effective date hereof, no sign, billboard, or
other street graphic, except those listed in section
11-12E-2 of this chapter, shall be erected, expanded, altered, relocated, or
reconstructed without a street graphic permit issued by the administrator.
   B.   Application For Permit: Every applicant for a street graphic permit
shall submit on a city supplied form to the administrator, in narrative and/or
graphic form, all the following items of information:
      1.   Name, address, and telephone number of applicant;
      2.   Name and address of the owner of the premises on which the street
graphic is to be erected, if different from subsection B1 of this section;
      3.   Location of the building, structure or lot where the proposed street
graphic is to be erected, and the zoning district classification of said
premises;
      4.   Description of the proposed street graphic indicating proposed
location, dimensions, area, overall height, illumination, and method of
support/attachment;
      5.   Relationship of the proposed street graphic to nearby traffic
control devices;
      6.   Amount of street frontage that the establishment which proposes to
display the street graphic has, and the total area of all existing signs on
said premises; and
      7.   Such other information as the administrator shall reasonably require
to determine full compliance with this chapter. (2010 Code)
11-12C-3: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
A nonconforming street graphic that does not pose an imminent peril to life or
property may remain and be maintained by ordinary repairs, but shall not be:
   A.   Altered or enlarged in such a way as to increase its nonconformity;
   B.   Replaced by another nonconforming street graphic (provided, that
changing the message on a changeable copy sign shall not be deemed a violation
of this subsection);
   C.   Relocated unless it is made to conform with this chapter; or
   D.   Reconstructed after incurring damage in an amount exceeding fifty
percent (50%) of its market value at the time of loss as determined by the
administrator. (2010 Code)
11-12C-4: CORRECTIVE ACTION:
   A.   Notice Requirements: Whenever the administrator finds, by inspection or
otherwise, that any street graphic is in violation of this chapter, he shall so
notify the responsible party in writing pursuant to subsection B of this
section, and shall order appropriate corrective action. Provided, that this
notice requirement shall not apply whenever the administrator determines that
any street graphic poses an imminent peril to life or property or whenever such
street graphic is strictly prohibited. In situations where the owner of the
sign has not been identified, the administrator may notify the person,
business, or entity who benefits from the particular sign or the person who
placed the sign requesting that appropriate corrective action be taken.
   B.   Contents Of Order: The order to take corrective action shall be in
writing and shall include:
      1.   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
      2.   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
      3.   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
      4.   Corrective action must be taken seventy two (72) hours after receipt
of a corrective action order;
      5.   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to confer with the
administrator if he so desires;
      6.   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed, and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
      7.   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the street graphic permit and may result in remedial
action by the city and/or the imposition of a fine.
   C.   Service Of Order: A corrective action order shall be deemed properly
served upon the owner of the offending street graphic if it is:
      1.   Served upon him personally; or
      2.   Sent by certified mail to the last known address of owner and, when
practicable, posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
(2010 Code)
11-12C-5: REMEDIAL ACTION; COSTS:
   A.   Whenever the recipient of a corrective action order fails to obey said
order within the time limit set forth therein, or in an emergency, the
administrator may alter/remove the offending street graphic or take any other
action necessary to effect compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Any expense incurred by the city pursuant to authorized street graphic
remedial action, pursuant to subsection 11-12C-4A of this article and
subsection A of this section, shall be billed by first class mail to the owner
of the offending street graphic. If said bill has not been paid within thirty
(30) days, the unpaid charge shall constitute a lien upon the real estate where
the street graphic is located. The city attorney is hereby authorized to file a
notice of lien in the office of the county recorder of deeds to foreclose this
lien, and to sue the owner of the real estate, or sign permittee, or their
agents, in a civil action to recover the money due for the foregoing services,
plus all expenses incurred pursuant to collection efforts including litigation
expenses, plus reasonable attorney fees to be fixed by the court. (2010 Code)
11-12C-6: VARIANCES, APPEALS AND SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Variances:
      1.   In order that the spirit of this title may be observed and
substantial justice done, the planning and zoning board shall, upon application
or appeal, after conducting a public hearing and upon making a finding of fact,
owing to special conditions, find that a literal enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter would result in unnecessary hardship, may vary the conditions
of this chapter.
      2.   The planning and zoning board shall not grant any street graphic
variance unless, based upon evidence presented to them, they determine that:
         a.   The proposed variance is consistent with the spirit and purpose
of this chapter and will not cause injury to the area in which the street
graphic is located or be detrimental to the public welfare in any way; and
         b.   Strict application of the requirements of this chapter would
result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not
of his own making; and
         d.   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship while protecting the
broader public interest; and
         e.   The proposed variance will provide a better aesthetically
pleasing look; prevent obstruction of view; or match the design, look and
layout of other signs located on the same property on which a previous variance
was granted.
   B.   Appeals And Special Uses: The planning and zoning board shall follow
guidelines and requirements as stated in chapter 3, article A and chapter 11 of
this title, as applicable, when determining requests for variances, appeals or
special uses.
   C.   Hearings: The planning and zoning board shall hold a public hearing on
each variance, appeal or special use requested. At the hearing, any interested
party may appear and testify, either in person or by a duly authorized agent or
attorney. Proper notice procedures as in all variance proceedings shall be
followed. (2010 Code)
11-12C-7: FEES:
All fees indicated in this section shall be paid to the city clerk. Said fees
are intended to defray the administrative costs connected with the processing
and enforcement of the listed permits/procedures. They do not constitute a tax
or other revenue raising device.
 
Permit/Procedure                         Fee Schedule
Temporary street graphic permit          $25.00  
Street graphic permit for signs up to 30 30.00   
square feet
Street graphic permit for signs greater  30.00  , plus $0.50 per square foot
than 30 square feet
Variances                                Current fee schedule
Special uses                             Current fee schedule
Amendments                               Current fee schedule
 
(2010 Code)
11-12C-8: COMPLAINTS:
Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have occurred,
any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the administrator.
The administrator shall record such complaints, promptly investigate, and, if
he deems necessary, initiate appropriate corrective action. (2010 Code)
11-12C-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), plus costs. Each day that a violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense.
   B.   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking
any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with this
chapter. (2010 Code)
ARTICLE D. GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-12D-1: Prohibited Signs
11-12D-2: Sign Area
11-12D-3: Special Situations
11-12D-4: Movement Prohibited
11-12D-5: Illumination
11-12D-6: Nonhazardous Signs
11-12D-7: Structural Maintenance Requirements
11-12D-1: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
Any sign or other street graphic not expressly permitted by this chapter shall
be deemed prohibited in the city. (2010 Code)
11-12D-2: SIGN AREA:
   A.   Calculation: The area of every sign shall be calculated as follows:
      1.   If a sign is enclosed by a box or outline, the total area (including
the background) within that outline shall be deemed the sign area.
      2.   If a sign consists of individual letters, parts, or symbols, the
area of the one imaginary square or rectangle that would completely enclose all
the letters, parts, or symbols shall be deemed the sign area.
      3.   In calculating sign area, only one side of any double faced sign
shall be counted.
      4.   The area of signs of unusual shapes such as globes, cylinders, or
pyramids shall be computed as one-half (1/2) of the total of the exposed
surfaces.
   B.   Allowed Sign Area:
      1.   Within the limitations and restrictions as provided in this chapter,
the total of the areas of flush mounted signs which a particular establishment
is permitted to display shall be computed according to the following formula:
Two (2) square feet of sign area per one foot (1') of linear street frontage.
      2.   The total areas of all other signs which a particular establishment
is permitted to display shall be computed according to the formula set out in
subsection B1 of this section; provided, that no establishment in any zoning
district shall display more than three hundred (300) square feet of signs,
however, all establishments are allowed to put up a minimum thirty two (32)
square foot sign. (2010 Code)
11-12D-3: SPECIAL SITUATIONS:
If any establishment has frontage on two (2) or more streets, each side having
frontage shall be considered separately for purposes of determining compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. However, the sign area allowances shall
not be combined so as to allow any such establishment to display on any
frontage a greater area of signs than this section would otherwise permit. The
side of an establishment adjacent to an off street parking area shall be deemed
frontage. (2010 Code)
11-12D-4: MOVEMENT PROHIBITED:
No sign or other street graphic shall revolve, rotate, or mechanically move in
any manner. (2010 Code)
11-12D-5: ILLUMINATION:
Illumination of signs and other street graphics is permitted, subject to the
following requirements:
   A.   Only white directional lighting specifically illuminating the sign is
permitted in residential zoning districts and within one hundred feet (100')
thereof.
   B.   No red, yellow, green or other colored light shall be used at any
location in such a manner as to confuse or interfere with vehicular traffic.
   C.   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights or other
illuminating devices which have a changing light intensity, brightness, or
color; provided, that this subsection shall not apply to any message on any
electronically operated changeable copy sign. Beacon lights and illumination by
flame are prohibited.
   D.   The light from any illuminated sign or other street graphic shall be
shaded, shielded, or directed so as to avoid the creation or continuation of
any nuisance or traffic hazard.
   E.   No exposed reflective type bulb, and no strobe light or incandescent
lamp which exceeds fifteen (15) watts, shall be used on the exterior surface of
any sign in such a manner as to expose the face of the bulb, light, or lamp to
any public street or to adjacent property. (2010 Code)
11-12D-6: NONHAZARDOUS SIGNS:
   A.   No sign or other street graphic shall be erected, relocated, or
maintained so as to prevent access or egress from any door, window, fire
escape, or driveway.
   B.   No sign or other street graphic shall be erected or maintained in such
a manner that it interferes with, obstructs the view of, or is likely to be
confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device.
   C.   No sign shall be located so as to obstruct vision at an intersection or
vehicular entry or exit from the property.
   D.   No sign or other street graphic shall exceed a maximum height of twenty
five feet (25'). There shall be no minimum height. (2010 Code)
11-12D-7: STRUCTURAL MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every sign or other street graphic shall be designed and constructed in
conformity with the applicable provisions of the building code.
   B.   The electrical component of any illuminated sign or other street
graphic shall conform to the applicable requirements of the electrical code.
(2010 Code)
ARTICLE E. LOCATIONS
SECTION:
11-12E-1: Prohibited Locations
11-12E-2: Permitted Locations
11-12E-3: Residential Districts
11-12E-4: Business And Manufacturing Districts
11-12E-1: PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:
The following street graphics are strictly prohibited everywhere in the city:
   A.   Mobile/portable marquees.
   B.   Signs attached to trees, fences, or public utility poles, other than
warning signs issued by public utilities.
   C.   Signs, including posts and other supports, that advertise or identify
an activity, business, or service no longer conducted, which become a nuisance,
become hazardous, or fall into ill repair. Said signs must be removed within
fourteen (14) days from the date of receipt of a corrective action order from
the administrator. The landowner shall be responsible for responding to such
corrective action order.
   D.   Signs painted on roofs or walls advertising off premises businesses.
(2010 Code)
11-12E-2: PERMITTED LOCATIONS:
Every sign or other street graphic enumerated in this section that complies
with the indicated requirement may be erected in any zoning district of the
city without a permit. The area of said signs/street graphics shall not be
debited against the displaying establishment's sign area allowance.
   A.   Construction signs identifying the architects, engineers, contractors,
and other individuals or firms involved with the construction, and/or
announcing the character or purpose of the building, but not advertising any
product. Such signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area, shall
be confined to the site of the construction, and shall be removed within
fourteen (14) days after the project has reached a substantial completion of
ninety percent (90%), but prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy
by the city.
   B.   Directional and informational signs erected for the convenience of the
public, such as signs identifying entrances, exits, parking areas, no parking
areas, restrooms, public telephones, walkways, and similar features or
facilities. Such signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet in area.
   C.   Flags of any country, state, or unit of local government, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-80-17.
   D.   Garage sale signs advertising a garage or yard sale on private
residential property. Such signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area,
shall not be posted for longer than three (3) days and are not allowed to be on
street right of way.
   E.   Governmental or public signs such as traffic control signs, railroad
crossing signs, legal notices, signs indicating the location of underground
cables, etc.
   F.   Holiday decorations such as Christmas lights and ornaments; provided,
that such decorations must be removed within a reasonable time after the
holiday, unless permanently installed.
   G.   House numbers and/or name of occupant signs located on the lot to which
the sign pertains. Such signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet in area
for single-family dwellings nor six (6) square feet in area for multiple-family
dwellings.
   H.   Institutional signs for public, charitable, or religious institutions.
Such signs shall be located on the premises of the institution, shall not
obstruct the vision of motorists, and shall not exceed thirty two (32) square
feet in area.
   I.   Integral signs carved into stone or inlaid so as to become part of the
building, and containing such information as date of erection, name of
building, and memorial tributes.
   J.   Interior signs located in the interior of any building or within an
enclosed lobby or court of any building or group of buildings, provided such
signs are not visible from the exterior of said buildings.
   K.   Political campaign signs announcing candidates seeking public office
and/or political issues involving public elections or referenda. Such signs
shall be confined to private property. Political campaign signs shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area in all zoning districts; except such
signs may be a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet in business districts.
Political campaign signs shall be removed within seven (7) days after the
election to which they pertain.
   L.   Property regulations signs such as no trespassing, no hunting, no
fishing, etc. Such signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet in area.
   M.   Public interest signs publicizing a charitable or nonprofit event of
general public interest. In any residential district, such signs shall not
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area; elsewhere, such signs shall not exceed
thirty two (32) square feet. Public interest signs shall be permitted only for
thirty (30) days before and two (2) days after the event.
   N.   Real estate signs indicating the sale, rental or lease of the premises
on which they are located. Such signs on residential property shall not exceed
six and one-fourth (61/4) square feet in area, and not more than one real
estate sign per street front shall be erected on any lot. On other property,
such signs shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet, may be positioned in a
"V" shape with an interior angle between the faces of not more than ninety
degrees (90°), with the distance between the sign faces not exceeding five feet
(5') at their closest point. Such signs shall be removed within seven (7) days
after the sale, rental, or lease.
   O.   Residential development identification structures at major entrances:
1) designed to identify a residential subdivision, apartment complex, or
planned unit development; 2) containing no commercial advertising; and 3) not
exceeding forty (40) square feet in actual signage area.
   P.   Street banners advertising a public entertainment or event. Such
banners may be placed in locations approved at the discretion of the building
official, as long as they do not cause a traffic hazard or a threat to the
public health or safety, during the period of thirty (30) days before the event
and two (2) days after the event.
   Q.   Utility company signs that serve as an aid to public safety or that
show the location of public telephones, underground cables, etc.
   R.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection when
cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part of the building when
constructed of bronze or other incombustible material. (2010 Code)
11-12E-3: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Upon the effective date hereof, no signs or other street graphics, except those
listed in section
11-12E-2 of this article, shall be erected in any residential district (see
subsection 11-12C-4A of this chapter). (2010 Code)
11-12E-4: BUSINESS AND MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS:
No establishment located in any business district or in any manufacturing
district shall display a total area of signs in excess of its sign area
allowance (see subsection 11-12D-2B of this chapter). (2010 Code)
ARTICLE F. TYPES OF SIGNS
SECTION:
11-12F-1: Flush Mounted Signs
11-12F-2: Projecting Signs
11-12F-3: Signs On Awnings, Canopies And Marquees
11-12F-4: Window Signs
11-12F-5: Shopping Center Identification
11-12F-6: Freestanding Signs
11-12F-7: Roof Mounted Signs
11-12F-8: Billboards
11-12F-9: Special Promotions
11-12F-10: Temporary Signs
11-12F-11: Off Site Tract Sales Of Subdivision Lots Signs
11-12F-1: FLUSH MOUNTED SIGNS:
For aesthetic and safety reasons, flush mounted signs are the preferred type of
sign in the city. No flush mounted sign shall:
   A.   Project more than eighteen inches (18") from the wall or surface to
which it is attached (if such wall/surface is not vertical, the projection
shall be measured from the closest point of the wall/surface to the sign); or
   B.   Extend more than four feet (4') above the roofline of the building to
which it is attached. (2010 Code)
11-12F-2: PROJECTING SIGNS:
   A.   No establishment in any zoning district shall display more than one
projecting sign on any street front.
   B.   No projecting sign shall:
      1.   Project more than ten feet (10') from the building to which it is
attached; or
      2.   Extend more than three feet (3') above the roofline of the building
to which it is attached; or
      3.   Project over a street, alley, public sidewalk, or driveway, or
closer than two feet (2') to the curb or edge of such vehicular way; or
      4.   Extend below a point ten feet (10') above the ground or pavement.
(2010 Code)
11-12F-3: SIGNS ON AWNINGS, CANOPIES AND MARQUEES:
Signs mounted flush against any awning, canopy, or marquee shall be considered
flush mounted signs and shall comply with the regulations of section
11-12F-1 of this article. Signs suspended beneath any awning, canopy, or
marquee shall be considered projecting signs and shall comply with the
regulations of section 11-2F-2 of this article. When the message is placed
directly on the awning, the sign area shall be the computation of the area of
the one imaginary square or rectangle which would completely enclose all the
letters, parts or symbols. (2010 Code)
11-12F-4: WINDOW SIGNS:
Any establishment may display window signs. Window signs shall cover no more
than thirty percent (30%) of any window. Permanent window signs shall be
debited against the displaying establishment's sign area allowance, but
temporary window signs shall not. (2010 Code)
11-12F-5: SHOPPING CENTER IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   A shopping center, as an entity, may erect an identification sign in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. A shopping center
identification sign shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet in area.
One sign shall be allowed per seventy five (75) linear feet of frontage, not to
exceed two (2) freestanding signs per shopping center.
   B.   A shopping center identification sign shall display the range of
addresses (numbers only) located within the shopping center, the square footage
of such address portion of sign to be exempted from the three hundred (300)
square feet of total sign area, with a minimum height of five inches (5"),
unless a finished base is provided, then the numbers may appear on the finished
base (sign face sides), with a minimum height of five inches (5"). Such range
of addresses shall be of a reflective material if not illuminated. (2010 Code)
11-12F-6: FREESTANDING SIGNS:
No more than one freestanding sign shall be displayed on any street front of
any lot. All freestanding signs shall comply with the following regulations:
   A.   No part of any freestanding sign shall intrude into or project over any
public right of way.
   B.   No freestanding sign shall be located so as to obstruct vision at an
intersection or vehicular entry or exit from the property.
   C.   No freestanding sign shall exceed a total of eighty (80) square feet in
area or ten feet (10') in any dimension; provided, that this subsection shall
not apply to shopping center identification signs (see section
11-12F-5 of this article).
   D.   When attached to a post or other supports, the top edge of a
freestanding sign shall not exceed more than twenty five feet (25') above the
elevation of the centerline of the adjacent right of way or the adjacent
finished grade, whichever is greater.
   E.   No exposed supports are permitted; supports are to be encased by vinyl,
metal or masonry.
   F.   Street address (numbers only) are to be located on signs, the square
footage of such address to be exempted from the eighty (80) square feet of
total sign face area, with a minimum height of five inches (5"), unless a
finished base is provided, then the numbers may appear on the finished base
(sign face sides), with a minimum height of five inches (5"). This section
shall not apply if the address on building is clearly visible from the right of
way. (2010 Code)
11-12F-7: ROOF MOUNTED SIGNS:
All roof mounted signs are strictly prohibited everywhere in the city. (2010
Code)
11-12F-8: BILLBOARDS:
Billboards (including all off premises advertising signs) are prohibited in the
city and within the recognized one and one- half (11/2) mile area surrounding
the city over which the city has adopted control. (2010 Code)
11-12F-9: SPECIAL PROMOTIONS:
   A.   Any business enterprise consisting of retail sales and/or rendering of
services directly to the public shall be able to use mobile portable marquees,
signs and banners for promotional activities. These promotional activities may
occur not more than once quarterly. Each promotional activity shall not exceed
fourteen (14) days in length. Mobile/portable marquees used in accordance with
this section shall be confined to property on which the business enterprise is
located.
   B.   Any business enterprise consisting of retail sales and/or rendering of
services directly to the public shall be able to use a sandwich board on the
sidewalk in front of their property as long as its location does not impede
public use of the sidewalk or cause a safety hazard to the public. (2010 Code)
11-12F-10: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   If any business enterprise does not have an existing street graphic, a
mobile/portable sign may be used for a period of time not to exceed forty five
(45) days pending construction of its permanent sign.
   B.   Political issues not involving public elections or referenda may be
installed on private property for a period not to exceed forty five (45) days
only pursuant to a temporary street graphic permit. (2010 Code)
11-12F-11: OFF SITE TRACT SALES OF SUBDIVISION LOTS SIGNS:
One directional sign for tract sales of lots or houses off site is allowable in
any business or manufacturing district, or residential district if approved in
writing by all adjoining residential lot owners, if the sign meets the
following conditions:
   A.   The final plat of the subdivision must contain ten (10) or more lots;
   B.   The sign may not exceed thirty two (32) square feet;
   C.   An approved sign permit has been obtained for the sign;
   D.   The signs must be posted off of public right of way and only with the
written permission of the property owner; and
   E.   Signs must be removed when ninety five percent (95%) of the houses and/
or lots have been sold. (2010 Code)
CHAPTER 13
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-13-1: Purpose
11-13-2: Definition
11-13-3: General Parking And Loading Provisions
11-13-4: Additional Parking Regulations
11-13-5: Additional Loading Regulations
11-13-6: Parking And Loading Schedules
11-13-6-1: Schedule Of Parking Requirements
11-13-6-2: Schedule Of Loading And Unloading Requirements
11-13-7: Computation Of Parking And Loading Spaces
11-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public
streets and so promote the safety and welfare of the public by establishing
minimum requirements for the off street parking and loading and unloading of
motor vehicles in accordance with the usage of the property. (1996 Code app. A
§ 10.1)
11-13-2: DEFINITION:
The term "floor area", as employed in this chapter, in the case of office,
merchandising or service types of use, shall mean the gross floor area of a
building or structure used or intended to be used for service to the public as
customers, patrons, clients, patients or tenants, including areas occupied by
fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of merchandise. "Floor area",
for the purposes of this chapter, shall not include any area used for:
   A.   Storage accessory to the principal use of a building.
   B.   Incidental repairs.
   C.   Processing or packaging of merchandise.
   D.   Show windows or offices incidental to the management or maintenance of
a store or building.
   E.   Restrooms.
   F.   Utilities.
   G.   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms. (1996 Code app. A § 10.2-6.2)
11-13-3: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Procedure: An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged
building, structure or use shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale
and fully dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided
in compliance with the requirements of this title. (1996 Code app. A § 10.2-1)
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Exemptions: The off street parking and
loading requirements of this title shall apply as follows:
      1.   All buildings and structures erected and land uses initiated after
the effective date hereof shall provide accessory off street parking or loading
facilities as required hereinafter for the use thereof. (1996 Code app. A §
10.2-2; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   When a building or structure erected prior to or after the effective
date hereof shall undergo a decrease in number of dwelling units, gross floor
area, seating capacity, number of employees, or other unit of measurement
specified hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities, and further,
when said decrease would result in a requirement for fewer total parking or
loading spaces through application of the provisions of this title thereto,
parking and loading facilities may be reduced accordingly; provided, that
existing parking or loading facilities remaining would at least equal or exceed
the parking or loading requirements resulting from application of the
provisions of this title to the entire building or structure as modified.
      3.   When a building or structure shall undergo any increase in the
number of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other unit of
measurement specified hereinafter as the basis for determining the number of
parking or loading facilities, and further, when said increase would result in
a requirement for additional total parking or loading spaces through
application of the provisions of this title thereto, parking and loading
facilities would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading requirements
resulting from application of the provisions of this title to the entire
building or structure as modified.
      4.   The off street parking and loading requirements of this chapter
shall not apply to any new buildings or structures or any existing building or
structure which is enlarged or increased in capacity after the effective date
hereof (February 3, 1959) when said new or existing buildings or structures are
located within the area described as follows: Bounded on the north by the south
line of Pine Street; on the east by the west line of Jefferson Street; on the
south by the north line of Prairie Street; on the west by the east line of
Washington Street. (1996 Code app. A § 10.2-2)
   C.   Existing Parking And Loading Spaces: Accessory off street parking and
loading spaces in existence on the effective date hereof may not be reduced in
number unless already exceeding the requirements of this chapter for equivalent
new construction; in which event, said spaces shall not be reduced below the
number required herein for such equivalent new construction. (1996 Code app. A
§ 10.2-3)
   D.   Permitted Parking And Loading Spaces: Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the establishment of off street automobile parking or loading
facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings, subject to full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter; except, that off street parking
areas accessory to existing multiple-family structures cannot be located off
the premises containing the main use, unless on a lot adjacent thereto, without
authorization by the city council. (1996 Code app. A § 10.2-4)
   E.   Damage Or Destruction: Any building, structure or use which is in
existence and is a conforming use on the effective date hereof, and which
subsequently shall be damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or
other cause, may be reconstructed, reestablished or repaired with or without
off street parking or loading facilities; except, that parking or loading
facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such damage or
destruction shall be restored or continued in operation. However, it shall not
be necessary to restore or maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of
those required by this title for equivalent new construction. (1996 Code app. A
§ 10.2-5)
11-13-4: ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Use Of Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities accessory to a
residential use and developed in any residential district in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter shall be used solely for the parking of
passenger automobiles owned by occupants of the dwelling structures to which
such facilities are accessory or by guests of said occupants. Under no
circumstances shall required parking facilities accessory to residential
structures be used for the storage of commercial vehicles or for the parking of
automobiles belonging to the employees, owners, tenants, visitors or customers
of business or manufacturing establishments, except as permitted in subsection
D of this section. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-1)
   B.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for different
buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively
in any zoning district in which separate parking facilities for each
constituent use would be permitted; provided, that the total number of spaces
so located together shall not be less than the sum of the separate requirements
for each use. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-2)
   C.   Off Site Parking Facilities:
      1.   When required accessory off street parking facilities are provided
elsewhere than on the lot on which the principal use served is located, they
shall be in the same possession, either by deed or long term lease, as the
property occupied by such principal use, and the owner shall be bound by
covenants filed of record in the office of the recorder of deeds or the
registrar of titles of Jersey County, requiring the owner and his or her heirs
and assigns to maintain the required number of parking spaces during the
existence of said principal use. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-3)
      2.   Accessory parking facilities provided elsewhere than on the same
zoning lot with the principal use served in accordance with subsection C1 of
this section may be located in any zoning district except as follows:
         a.   No parking facilities accessory to an apartment use shall be
located in an R-1, R-2 or R-3 district.
         b.   No parking facilities accessory to a business or manufacturing
use shall be located in a residential district, except when authorized by the
city council as prescribed hereinafter. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-4)
         c.   No parking facilities accessory to a manufacturing use shall be
permitted in a B-1, B-2 or B-3 district. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-4; amd. 2010
Code)
   D.   Nonresidential Parking In Residential Districts: Accessory off street
parking facilities serving nonresidential uses of property may be permitted in
an R-4 and R-5 district when authorized by the city council, subject to the
following requirements in addition to all other relevant requirements of this
chapter:
      1.   The parking lot shall be accessory to, and for use in connection
with, one or more nonresidential establishments located in adjoining districts
or in connection with one or more existing professional or institutional office
buildings or institutions.
      2.   Said parking lot shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles.
      3.   No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be conducted
on said parking lot.
      4.   No sign of any kind, other than signs designating entrances, exits
and conditions of use, shall be maintained on said parking lot.
      5.   Each entrance to and exit from said parking lot shall be at least
twenty feet (20') distant from any adjacent property located in any residential
district, except where ingress and egress to the parking lot is provided from a
public alley or public way separating the residential areas from the proposed
parking lot.
      6.   In addition to the foregoing requirements, such parking lots shall
conform to any further requirements and conditions as may be prescribed by the
city council for the protection of properties adjacent to and in the vicinity
of the proposed parking lot. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-5; amd. 2010 Code)
   E.   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Description Of Parking Space:
         a.   Every parking space shall conform to the following requirements.
Such spaces shall be clearly designated by markings that delineate each space
and shall be relaid or restored as often as necessary to maintain such
delineation, at the owner's expense.
   MINIMUM PARKING SPACE WIDTHS, LENGTHS
   AND VERTICAL CLEARANCE
 
Parking Type Space Width (Feet) Space Length (Feet)      Vertical Clearance
                                                         (Feet)
                                20 (without parking
90 degree    10                 blocks)                  7
                                22 (with parking blocks)
60 degree    10                 20                       7
Parallel     8                  22                       7
Handicapped  16                 20                       7
 
         b.   Every parking space shall be situated so that no part of any
parked vehicle can overhang the right of way, aisleways, public or private
sidewalks or property lines.
      2.   Parking Spaces For Handicapped Persons: The minimum number of
parking spaces for handicapped persons shall be provided in accordance with the
Americans with disabilities act accessibility guidelines (ADAAG) and the
Illinois accessibility code, latest edition.
      3.   Interior Aisles: Aisles within parking lots in multi-family
residential, business and manufacturing districts shall be sufficiently wide to
permit safe and efficient vehicular movement in the aisles, and into and out of
parking spaces.
   AISLE WIDTHS
 
Parking Type Width Of Aisle (Feet)
90 degree    24
60 degree    18 (one-way)
             24 (two-way)
Parallel     24
 
      4.   Accessways:
         a.   Parking areas in the multi-family residential, business, and
manufacturing districts shall be designed so that ingress to and egress from a
parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public right
of way.
         b.   All entrance construction shall be in conformance with the
Illinois department of transportation manual, "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction" (latest edition), and in conformance with the Illinois
department of transportation policy handbook, "Access To State Highways"
(latest edition).
      5.   Lighting:
         a.   Every off street parking facility regularly utilized during
nighttime hours shall be lighted to enable safe access to parked vehicles. Such
lighting must be erected on private property, unless the administrator provides
written permission for the lights to be located on the city right of way.
         b.   Lights on commercial premises must not constitute a nuisance to
passing motorists. Such lights must not be similar to traffic control devices
(i.e., signals or flashing beacons). No flashing, oscillating or rotating
lights visible from any public highway may be placed on any building or
structure located within two hundred feet (200') of the street.
         c.   Any light(s) utilized to illuminate any parking facility shall be
configured or shielded so as to confine and direct light rays within the
parking area boundary lines to the greatest extent practicable.
         d.   In commercial areas, "shoe box" type fixtures are encouraged to
avoid stray and ineffective lighting. (2010 Code)
      6.   Open And Enclosed Spaces: Parking areas may be open or enclosed;
except, that when parking facilities accessory to a multiple-family dwelling
are located in an R-1, R-2 or R-3 district elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the principal use served, such parking facilities shall be open to the
sky. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-6.3; amd. 2010 Code)
      7.   Signs: No signs shall be displayed in any parking area within any
residential district except entrance, exit and parking regulations signs. (1996
Code app. A § 10.3-6.5; amd. 2010 Code)
      8.   Required Setbacks: No parking space or portion thereof established
on the same zoning lot with a building shall be located within a required front
yard except in the driveway or an off street boulevard area parking which has
been installed between the sidewalk and the street, as long as the sidewalk is
not blocked. Further, any wall or fence developed around any parking area shall
be subject to the front yard setback requirements of this title in the same
manner as a building or structure. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-6.6; amd. 2010
Code)
      9.   Surfacing: All open off street parking areas, except those accessory
to single-family dwellings, shall be improved with a compacted crushed stone or
clean gravel base, not less than four inches (4") thick, surfaced with asphalt,
concrete, or clean gravel dustless material. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-6.7; amd.
2010 Code)
      10.   Screening And Landscaping: All open off street parking areas for
six (6) or more cars shall be effectively screened by a wall, a solid fence or
a densely planted compact hedge along any side which adjoins or is directly
across a street or alley from a property in a residential district or an
institutional property. Such wall, fence or hedge shall be at least four feet
(4') but not more than eight feet (8') in height and shall be maintained in
good condition. (1996 Code app. A § 10.3-6.8; amd. 2010 Code)
   F.   Location Of Parking Areas:
      1.   Residential Districts:
         a.   Parking spaces accessory to dwellings in any residential zoning
district shall be located on the same lot as the dwelling. Each parking space
accessory to a multi-family dwelling shall be unobstructed so that no vehicle
need be moved in order to allow another vehicle to enter/exit the parking area.
         b.   No personal or company vehicles shall be parked on any yard that
abuts a street, except on a driveway. When any of these vehicles are parked in
any rear yard or side yard abutting a lot, such parking shall have access by
means of an approved driveway consisting of at least four inches (4") of
crushed stone.
         c.   All parking spaces accessory to permitted nondwelling uses in the
residential zoning districts generally shall be located on the same lot as the
use served. However, by special use permit, such parking facilities may be
located on another parcel within two hundred feet (200') of the use served. No
vehicle exceeding one ton cargo capacity shall be parked anywhere in a
residential district (except for normal loading, unloading and service calls).
This includes on the street and on private lots unless a special use permit has
been obtained.
      2.   Business And Manufacturing Districts:
         a.   Required parking spaces accessory to any permitted use in any
business or manufacturing district shall be located within two hundred feet
(200') of the use served, if not located on the same lot.
         b.   No parking space accessory to any use in any business or
manufacturing district shall be located in any residential district except by
special use permit.
         c.   In any business or manufacturing district, off street parking
facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided collectively if the
total number of spaces so located together is not less than the sum of the
separate requirements for each use, and if all regulations governing location
of parking spaces in relation to the use served are observed.
   G.   Landscaping Of Parking Lots: In order to reduce heat and glare and
minimize the loss of natural vegetation common to the construction of parking
facilities, landscaping shall be provided and maintained in accordance with the
following provisions:
      1.   A landscaping plan, either as a separate document or as an element
of a more inclusive development plan, shall accompany every application and set
of plans and include the following:
         a.   Perimeter Buffer Strip:
            (1)   A strip of land at least six feet (6') in width abutting and
paralleling the perimeter of the off street parking lot shall be landscaped.
Such landscaping shall include grass, ground cover, and/or other landscape
treatment, excluding paving, and one medium size canopy tree, or if space is
limited, one small size canopy tree, for every fifty (50) linear feet or major
fraction thereof.
            (2)   In B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4 and M-1 districts, a planting strip of
ten feet (10'), not including sidewalks, shall be provided and maintained
within the required front yard and shall separate vehicle parking and drive
areas from any public or private street or right of way.
            (3)   Landscaping requirements shall include grass, ground cover,
and/or other landscape treatments, and shall include at least one medium size
canopy tree for each fifty feet (50') of frontage of any public or private
street right of way. Care should be taken with the placement of these trees so
they do not obstruct the view of traffic or interfere with the flow of traffic
in any way.
         b.   Perimeter Parking Spaces: Rows of parking spaces adjoining the
perimeter of the parking lot having fewer than twenty five (25) (24 and less)
parking spaces need not be interrupted by a landscaping island. Rows of parking
spaces adjoining the perimeter of the parking lot having twenty five (25) or
greater number of parking spaces shall be interrupted by the intrusion of a
landscaping island; no greater than twenty five (25) contiguous, side by side
parking spaces shall be permitted. Each landscaping island shall be a minimum
width of six feet (6') and a minimum depth of twenty feet (20').
         c.   Interior Parking Spaces:
            (1)   Interior parking rows, parking rows that are not adjacent to
the parking lot perimeter, shall have a landscaping island at each end of the
parking row. Interior parking rows having twenty five (25) or greater number of
contiguous side by side parking spaces shall be interrupted by the intrusion of
a landscaping island; not greater than twenty four (24) contiguous, side by
side parking spaces shall be permitted. Parking islands shall have a minimum
width of six feet (6') and a minimum length of twenty feet (20') if for a
single parking row, or not less than forty feet (40') if for two (2)
contiguous, interfacing, parallel rows.
            (2)   The landscaping of the islands shall include grass, ground
cover, and/or other landscape treatment, excluding paving, and include at least
one small size canopy tree per island. Proper drainage shall be provided for
each landscaped parking island.
      2.   Every landscaping plan shall at least include the proposed type,
amount, size and spacing of all plantings, including trees, shrubbery and
ground cover. (2010 Code)
11-13-5: ADDITIONAL LOADING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Size And Clearance: Every loading space shall conform to the following
requirements, exclusive of any aisle or maneuvering area that may be required.
Such spaces shall be clearly designated by markings that delineate each space,
and shall be relaid or restored as often as necessary to maintain such
delineation.
      1.   Minimum loading space width: Twelve feet (12').
      2.   Minimum loading space length: Fifty five feet (55').
      3.   Minimum vertical clearance: Fifteen feet (15').
   B.   Access: Every off street loading space shall have a safe means of
vehicular access and shall be located on the same parcel of land as the use
served. It shall not be located closer than fifty feet (50') to an intersection
of the rights of way of two (2) or more streets.
   C.   Surface Requirements: All newly constructed off street loading areas
shall be improved with either of the following:
      Subbase: Crushed stone CA-6, eight inches (8") deep (compacted
thickness).
      Surface: I-11, four inches (4") deep asphalt (compacted thickness).
      Subbase: Crushed stone, four inches (4") deep (compacted thickness) or
lime modified.
      Surface: Six inches (6") deep concrete.
   D.   Buffer Strips: No loading space designed for vehicles exceeding a two
(2) ton cargo capacity shall be developed closer than fifty feet (50') to any
lot line in any residential district unless such loading space is completely
enclosed by a wall, a solid fence, or a privacy screen. (2010 Code)
11-13-6: PARKING AND LOADING SCHEDULES:
Requirements governing the number and location of off street parking and off
street loading facilities in relation to the use of property are established in
this section. The parking and loading requirements for any use not specified
herein shall be the same as for a similar specified use, as determined by this
section. (1996 Code app. A § 10.2-6.1)
11-13-6-1: SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
                                        Such space as the city council, upon
Airports, railroad passenger stations,  review of the recommendations of the
bus depots or other passenger terminal  planning and zoning board, shall deem
facilities (special uses)               to be adequate for employees,
                                        passengers, spectators, visitors and
                                        others
Banks, business or professional         1 space for each 300 square feet of
offices, or public administration       floor area
buildings
                                        4 spaces for each alley, plus 1 space
Bowling alleys                          for each 300 feet of floor area devoted
                                        to affiliated uses such as bars,
                                        restaurants and the like
Church, high school, college and        1 space for each 6 seats provided in
university auditoriums                  said buildings or structures
Convention halls, dance halls, skating  1 space for each 75 square feet of
rinks, assembly halls, exhibition halls floor area
or other places of assembly
Establishments handling the sale or
consumption on the premises of          1 space for each 75 square feet of
alcoholic beverages, food or            floor area
refreshments
Fraternities, sororities and            1 space per sleeping room or unit, plus
dormitories                             1 additional space for housemother or
                                        manager and per employee per shift
Furniture and appliance stores, motor
vehicle sales, wholesale stores,
household equipment or furniture repair 1 space for each 200 square feet of
shops or machinery sales (individual    floor area
stores or groups of stores in one
building)
Hospitals                               1 space for each 75 square feet of
                                        floor area
                                        10 spaces, plus 1 per sleeping room,
                                        plus 1 per 100 square feet for
Hotels and motels                       supplementary facilities, including
                                        dining rooms, nightclub facilities, and
                                        meeting rooms
Manufactured housing or mobile home     2 spaces for each manufactured or
parks or recreational vehicle parks     mobile home or recreational vehicle
                                        space
Manufacturing and industrial uses,
research and testing laboratories,
laundry and dry cleaning plants,        2 spaces per every one employee based
printing, binding, publishing and       on the maximum number of employees
issuing of newspapers, periodicals,     scheduled to work on any 1 shift
books and other reading matter,
warehouses, assembly of materials and
products and other similar uses
Medical or dental clinics               1 space per 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        20 spaces for each room used as a
                                        chapel or parlor, plus 1 space for each
Mortuaries or funeral parlors           funeral vehicle maintained on the
                                        premises, plus 1 space for each family
                                        residing on the premises
One- and two-family dwellings           2 spaces for each family dwelling unit
Private clubs or lodges (without        1 space for each 75 square feet of
sleeping rooms)                         floor area
Retail stores and service shops         1 space for each 200 square feet of
(individual or in groups) under 1 roof  retail floor area
                                        1 space per sleeping room or unit, plus
Rooming and boarding houses             1 additional space for the owner or
                                        manager if residing on the premises
Sanatoriums, nursing homes,             1 space for each 5 patient beds, plus 1
convalescent homes or homes for the     additional space for each staff or
aged                                    visiting doctor and each employee
Stadium sports arena, auditorium and
gymnasium (other than incidental to a   1 space for each 4 seats
school)
Theaters                                 
     Indoor                        1 space for each 4 seats
     Outdoor                       1 space per employee
Three- or more family dwellings         2 spaces for each family dwelling unit
 
(1996 Code app. A § 10.6; amd. 2010 Code)
11-13-6-2: SCHEDULE OF LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS:
In all districts where property uses include the loading and unloading of
materials or merchandise from vehicles, off street loading and unloading
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the following requirements:
 
Type Of Use                             Loading And Unloading Space Required
Banks, business or professional offices 1 space, plus 1 additional space for
or public administration buildings      each additional 100,000 square feet of
containing 40,000 to 100,000 square     gross floor area or fraction thereof in
feet of gross floor area                excess of 100,000 square feet
Buildings containing bowling alleys,    1 space, plus 1 additional space for
taverns, restaurants or any retail      each additional 100,000 square feet of
shops and having 10,000 to 100,000      gross floor area or fraction thereof in
square feet of gross floor area         excess of 100,000 square feet
Buildings containing furniture and      1 space, plus 1 additional space for
appliance stores, motor vehicle sales,  each additional 25,000 square feet of
wholesale stores, household equipment   gross floor area or fraction thereof in
or machinery sales and having 8,000 to  excess of 25,000 square feet
25,000 square feet of gross floor area
Buildings containing manufacturing
uses, research and testing
laboratories, laundry and dry cleaning
establishments, printing, binding,
publishing and issuing of newspapers,
periodicals, books and other reading    1 space, plus 1 additional space for
matter, warehouse facilities, assembly  each additional 60,000 square feet of
of materials and products, processing   gross floor area in excess of 40,000
and distribution of materials and       square feet
products and other similar uses having
more than 10,000 square feet of gross
floor area, exclusive of basement area,
and less than 40,000 square feet of
gross floor area
Hospitals or sanatoriums containing     1 space, plus 1 additional space for
40,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross  each additional 100,000 square feet of
floor area                              gross floor area or fraction thereof in
                                        excess of 100,000 square feet
                                        1 space for the first 40,000 square
Hotels or apartment-hotel buildings     feet of gross floor area, plus 1
wherein there are contained exhibition  additional space for each 150,000
halls, convention halls, auditoriums,   square feet of gross floor area or
office facilities or retail shops       fraction thereof of gross floor area in
                                        excess of 40,000 square feet
 
(1996 Code app. A § 10.7; amd. 2010 Code)
11-13-7: COMPUTATION OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
In computing the number of parking and loading spaces required by this chapter,
the building official shall apply the following rules:
   A.   In computing the parking spaces required for a building or structure
containing mixed uses, the building official shall calculate the required
number of parking spaces for each use, and add the sums of those calculations
in order to determine the total number of spaces required for the building.
   B.   If, in computing the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this chapter, the calculation results in the requirement of a fractional space,
a fraction of less than one- half (1/2) may be disregarded, while a fraction of
one-half (1/2) or more shall be counted as one space.
   C.   If, in computing the number of parking or loading spaces required for a
building or structure under one roof containing mixed uses, the developer is
building shell space for tenants to be determined later, the building official
shall calculate the required number of spaces based on one space for each one
hundred twenty five (125) square feet of gross floor area.
   D.   If, in reviewing the uses and zoning districts in section
11-13-6 of this chapter, a particular use is not found, the building official
shall classify the use with other similar uses and calculate parking space
requirements according to the provisions for that classification. (2010 Code)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: Application Of Provisions
12-1-4: Interpretation
12-1-5: When Approval Of Subdivision Required
12-1-6: Study Of Area Surrounding Proposed Subdivision
12-1-7: Determination Of Character And Control Of Subdivision
12-1-8: Resubdivisions
12-1-9: Variances And Exceptions
12-1-10: Restrictions On Certain Permits
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
This title, regulating the subdivision of land, is hereby made a part of the
official plan of the city. This title is to provide for the harmonious
development of the city and its environs; for the coordination of streets
within new subdivisions with other existing or planned streets; for the
dedication and acceptance of land for public use; for the installation and
construction of utilities, roadways and other improvements essential to service
the subdivided land; for the dedication and acceptance of land required for
schools, parks, playgrounds and other public uses; for the preparation of
subdivision plans and the procedure for the submittal, approval and recording
of subdivision plats in and about the city, in accordance with the authority
vested in the city under the provisions of state law. (1996 Code § 26-2)
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to
them:
ACCEPTED PUBLIC STREET: Any street duly accepted by the city council for
maintenance after a report and recommendation by the city engineer.
ALLEY: A strip of land, not less than thirty feet (30') in width and not more
than forty feet (40') in width, along the side or in the rear of properties and
which is intended to provide access to those properties.
APPROVED STREET: Any street, whether public or private, meeting standards and
specifications of the city.
ARTERIAL STREET: See definition of Primary Or Arterial Street.
BUILDING LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so designated on
the plat of a proposed subdivision, showing building setback from the lot lines
on all sides.
COLLECTOR STREETS: Existing streets designated as such on the official plan of
the city and also streets proposed as "collector streets" in new subdivisions
which are designed with a right of way width of more than sixty six feet (66')
in order to provide an artery for access of traffic from three (3) or more cul-
de-sacs and/or minor streets to a primary street.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and the other end being permanently
terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation or a certain person for a specific purpose.
FINAL PLAT: The drawings and documents described in subsection 12-2-3A of this
title.
FRONTAGE: All the property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets, either crossing or terminating, measured along the line of the street
or, if the street is a dead end, then all the property abutting on one side
between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A public or private marginal access roadway or paved parking lot
containing the necessary driveways or trafficways which are located along the
frontage of multiple- family, business or industrial zoning districts with
regulations for the purpose of establishing minimum distances between points of
access to the accepted street and of eliminating the parking of autos on the
accepted public street.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for transfer
of ownership or for building development.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to
primary streets and highways, and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection to local traffic from fast, through traffic on the primary
streets.
MINOR STREET: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
PARKWAY: A route intended to be used primarily by passenger vehicles which may
have a varying width of right of way and which right of way is or is intended
to be developed with a parklike character.
PLAT: A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of the subdivision
is presented and which he submits for approval and intends to record in final
form.
PRELIMINARY PLAN: The drawings and documents described in subsection 12-2-2B of
this title.
PRIMARY OR ARTERIAL STREET: A street of considerable continuity which serves,
or is intended to serve, as a major traffic artery between the various sections
of the city area, as shown on the general development plan, as made a part of
the official plan, and also streets proposed as "primary or arterial streets"
in new subdivisions which are designed with a right of way width of more than
eighty feet (80').
PRIVATE STREET: Any street which is under the jurisdiction of a private board
of trustees or any street which is privately owned or established.
PUBLIC STREET: All primary, collector, and minor streets which are shown on the
subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
ROAD OR ROADWAY: The paved area existing on the street right of way and not the
width of the street right of way.
SIDEWALK: A strip of land dedicated to public use and which is reserved across
a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
STREET: The width of the street right of way or easement, whether public or
private, and shall not be considered as the width of paving or other
improvement on the street right of way.
SUBDIVIDER: The person responsible for preparing and recording the plat of the
subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate requirements outlined in this
title for the subdividing of land.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   One of the following:
      1.   Single-Family Residential Subdivision Of Land: A single-family
residential subdivision shall be one of the following:
         a.   The division of land for single-family residential purposes, into
two (2) or more tracts, sites or parcels of three (3) acres or less in area.
         b.   The division of land for single-family residential purposes into
tracts of more than three (3) acres where the proposed lot frontage is less
than three hundred feet (300').
         c.   The dedication or establishment of a public or private road,
highway or street through a tract of land regardless of area.
         d.   The resubdivision of land previously divided or platted into
lots, sites, or parcels, containing a total of one acre or more, as long as the
remaining lots, sites and parcels comply with the applicable zoning district
requirements.
      2.   Planned Zoning District: Any multiple- family, commercial or
industrial district included in a zoning district of the zoning ordinance of
the city after the effective date hereof shall be considered as a planned
zoning district and shall be deemed a subdivision for the purpose of this
title, regardless of whether the land is divided for separate sale or is
developed on a lease basis. Such subdivision shall be subject to the
improvement and design requirements of this title.
   B.   Any sale or contract of sale or agreement to purchase any lot or
division of land, either by lot description or by metes and bounds, shall
constitute a subdivision of land and require, prior to any sale or contract of
sale or agreement to purchase and before the delivery of a deed, the submission
of a plat to the planning and zoning board as required by law; however, this
subsection shall not apply to land in subdivisions previously recorded, to
sales of land used or to be used for orchards, forestry or the raising of
crops, upon certification by the planning and zoning board, or to the sale or
exchange of small parcels of land to or between adjoining property owners,
where such sale or exchange does not create additional lots, or upon
certification which must be granted by the planning and zoning board.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: A subdivision of land into two (2) but no more than four
(4) lots, all of which front upon an existing street, and not involving any new
streets, other rights of way, easements, improvements, or other provisions for
public area and facilities. (Ord. 1107, 10-26-1993; amd. 1996 Code § 26-1; 2010
Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
12-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   City Regulations:
      1.   Wherever any subdivision of land shall be laid out within the city
or within contiguous territory and not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles
beyond the corporate city limits, the subdivider or his agent shall submit both
a preliminary plan and a final subdivision plat to the city. The plans and
plats, proposed improvements and all procedures relating thereto shall, in all
respects, be in full compliance with this title and the official comprehensive
plan adopted by the city council on February 15, 2008.
      2.   All lands offered to the city for use as streets, alleys, parks and
other public uses shall be referred to the planning and zoning board for review
and recommendation before being accepted by the city council or by any other
governing authority. (1996 Code § 26-3; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
   B.   County Regulations: Subdivisions of land lying outside of the corporate
city limits and within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the city shall also be
required to conform with the requirements of this title or the regulations of
the county, whichever requirements are the more stringent. (1996 Code § 26-5;
amd. 2010 Code)
12-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
All interpretations of this title are reserved to the bodies designated by this
title to administer and enforce the provisions of this title. (1996 Code § 26-
7)
12-1-5: WHEN APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION REQUIRED:
   A.   No land shall be subdivided or filed for record, nor any street laid
out, nor any improvements made to the land, until the plat or plans of the
subdivision or street improvements shall have been received by the planning and
zoning board, approved by action of the city council, and certified on the
final plat by the mayor. The approval shall be in writing and placed on the
original tracing of the final plats according to the procedure outlined in
chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be offered
for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or given
until the subdivision plans have been reviewed by the planning and zoning
board, approved by action of the city council, and certified on the final plat
by the mayor.
   C.   No improvements, such as sidewalks, a water supply, stormwater
drainage, sewerage facilities, gas service, electric or lighting service or the
grading, paving or surfacing of streets, shall be made within any such
subdivision by any owner or his agent, or by any public service corporation at
the request of an owner or his agent, until the plats for the subdivision and
the plans for improvements thereto have been reviewed by the planning and
zoning board, approved by action of the city council, and certified on the
final plat by the mayor. (1996 Code § 26-4; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-
2012)
12-1-6: STUDY OF AREA SURROUNDING PROPOSED SUBDIVISION:
Where a tract of land is proposed for subdivision that is part of a larger,
logical subdivision unit in relation to the city as a whole, whether owned by
the subdivider or an adjacent third party, the planning and zoning board may,
before approval of a plat presented to it, cause to be prepared by the city
engineer a possible plan of the entire area, which plan shall be used by the
planning and zoning board and the city council as an aid in judging the
proposed plat. The city engineer shall cooperate with the planning and zoning
board in the preparation of the area plat and shall furnish such surveys and
data as may be deemed necessary. (1996 Code § 26-6; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582,
3-20-2012)
12-1-7: DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER AND CONTROL OF SUBDIVISION:
   A.   The subdivider shall provide a copy of the proposed declaration of
restrictions and covenants for the subdivision to the planning and zoning
board.
   B.   The planning and zoning board or the city engineer shall confer with
the subdivider regarding the type and character of development that will be
permitted in the subdivision and may agree with the subdivider as to certain
minimum restrictions to be placed upon the property to prevent the construction
of substandard buildings, control the type of structures, or the use of the
lots which, unless so controlled, would clearly depreciate the character and
value of the proposed subdivision and of adjoining property.
   C.   The proposed declaration of restrictions and covenants shall also
clearly provide for requirements and procedures for enforcement of any
violation of any restriction or covenant. After being reviewed by the planning
and zoning board, recommended for approval by the city council, and
subsequently approved by action of the city council, these declarations shall
be recorded contemporaneously with the final approved and certified subdivision
plat. (1996 Code § 26-11; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
12-1-8: RESUBDIVISIONS:
Whenever a proposed subdivision is divided into lots containing one to three
(3) acres, inclusive, and there are indications that such lots will eventually
be resubdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the
street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so that additional minor
streets can be opened which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots.
(1996 Code § 26-9)
12-1-9: VARIANCES AND EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Authority: The city council may vary and make exceptions as provided in
this title in instances where there is sufficient evidence, in its opinion, of
hardship caused by topographic conditions or where any other deterrents to
reasonable development exist. (Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
   B.   Exceptions For Certain Planned Developments: Whenever a subdivision is
developed under the planned development provisions of the zoning ordinance and
adequate park or playground area is provided, through traffic is adequately
cared for and the majority of the minor streets are of the cul-de-sac type, the
planning and zoning board may vary the requirements of chapters 2 and 3 of this
title in order to allow the subdivider more freedom in the arrangement of the
streets and lots, but at the same time, protect the convenience, health,
welfare and safety of the probable future residents of the subdivision as well
as the character of the surrounding property and the general welfare of the
entire county; however, in no case shall the average lot area per family
requirement be less than that required in any zoning regulation applying to the
property; or in the absence of any zoning regulation, the average lot area per
family shall not be less than six thousand (6,000) square feet for single-
family residences or less than four thousand (4,000) square feet per family for
lots upon which residences are to be erected for more than one family. (1996
Code § 26-10; amd. Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
   C.   Hardship Cases:
      1.   When a subdivider can show that a provision of this title, if
strictly adhered to, would cause unnecessary hardship, and when, in the opinion
of the planning and zoning board, because of topographical or other conditions
peculiar to the site, a departure may be made without destroying the intent of
this title, the planning and zoning board may recommend a variance or
modification to the city council. (1996 Code § 26-12; amd. Ord. 1582, 3-20-
2012)
      2.   The subdivider shall apply in writing for such variance or
modification of the action.
      3.   Any variance or modification so authorized shall be attached to and
made a part of the final plat. (1996 Code § 26-12)
12-1-10: RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN PERMITS:
   A.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued by the building
official for the construction of any building, structure or improvement to the
land or any lot within a subdivision which has been approved for platting or
replatting until there has been compliance with all requirements of this title
including, but not limited to, furnishing all utilities to the lot. (1996 Code
§ 26-13; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Occupancy Permit: No occupancy permit shall be granted by the building
official for the use of any structure within a subdivision approved for
platting or replatting until required utility facilities have been installed
and made ready to service the property, and roadways providing access to the
subject lot or lots have been constructed and have been accepted by the city,
township, or county, where applicable. (1996 Code § 26-14; amd. 2010 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-2-1: Application Of Provisions
12-2-2: Preliminary Plat
12-2-3: Final Plat
12-2-4: Recording Plat
12-2-5: Boundary Adjustment Plats And Lot Consolidation Plats
12-2-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the county
recorder's office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the
manner prescribed by this chapter. (1996 Code § 26-25)
12-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application For Approval; Fee:
      1.   Any owner of land which is within the city or within one and one-
half (11/2) miles of the city limits on unincorporated land, wishing to divide
the land into building lots for the purpose of sale or transfer, or wishing to
dedicate streets, alleys, parks or other land for public use, shall first
submit to the city four (4) full sized copies of the preliminary plat, one
eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") copy, and four (4) copies of proposed
declarations of restrictions and covenants, and all other information as
required in this section. After approval of the preliminary plat by the city
council, the subdivider shall supply one full sized mylar copy for execution by
the city officers.
      2.   The preliminary plat shall specify the intent of the subdivider with
respect to land use, drainage, sewage disposal, water supply, all utility
services, and street improvements proposed by the subdivider; what, if any,
restrictions exist or are to be placed on the property to be subdivided; and
the expected date of its development.
      3.   The subdivider may choose to file the preliminary plat as either a
preliminary master plat or a preliminary concept plat.
         a.   A preliminary master plat allows the subdivider to develop the
proposed subdivision in sections or phases and shall not require the subdivider
to resubmit additional preliminary plats for approval, as long as the final
plat for each later submitted section or phase of the development is the same
as the original preliminary master plat. A per lot filing fee of fifteen
dollars ($15.00) for all plans shall be paid at the time of filing the
preliminary master plat. All requirements related to preliminary and final
plats as provided in this chapter must be completed and complied with for all
phases of the subdivision before approval of the preliminary master plat, and
later submitted final plats for subsequent phases of the subdivision.
         b.   A preliminary concept plat allows the subdivider to submit a
preliminary plat for only one phase of a subdivision, as long as a proposed
concept for future development of all adjacent land owned by the subdivider is
included on the preliminary plat. In addition to all other requirements for
preliminary plats as provided in this chapter, the concept plat for adjacent
land shall include: 1) the location of all proposed roadways, alleys and cul-
de-sacs; 2) the location of all proposed entrances and exits from the
subdivision or future phases thereof; 3) the proposed layout of all future lots
(exact dimensions not required); 4) the location of all storm drainage
structures, such as detention basins and points of discharge; and 5) the
location of all proposed parks, green space and common areas. The per lot
filing fee shall only be paid for the first phase of the subdivision as
submitted on the preliminary concept plat. (1996 Code § 26-32; amd. 2010 Code)
         c.   Neither submittal of a preliminary concept plat by the subdivider
for adjacent land, nor any approval of the preliminary concept plat or a final
plat for the first phase of the subdivision as presented in a concept plat, by
either the planning and zoning board or the city council, shall confer upon the
subdivider any vested rights to further develop the adjacent land. All
development of the adjacent land shall be required to satisfy all requirements
of preliminary and final platting as stated in this chapter prior to approval,
if any. (1996 Code § 26-32; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
      4.   At the time of filing the preliminary plat with the city clerk, the
plat shall be accompanied by a certified check or money order payable to the
city in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus fifteen dollars
($15.00) for each lot in the proposed subdivision. No hearing on the
preliminary plat will be scheduled until the fee is paid.
      5.   At the time of filing the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
also provide a copy of the proposed preliminary plat to all public utility
companies which will provide services to the subdivision, including, but not
limited to, electric, gas, telephone, cable television, and water, if not city
water. (1996 Code § 26-32; amd. 2010 Code)
      6.   The said requirements of subsections A2, A3a, and A3b of this
section, regarding preliminary plats shall not be applicable to minor
subdivisions as defined in section
12-1-2 of this title, however, the city shall not allow this exemption to be
used as a means of repeatedly circumventing preliminary plat requirements. If
it becomes apparent that a subdivider is attempting to "piecemeal" a tract, the
subdivider shall be required to submit a preliminary plat notwithstanding the
fact that the proposal technically involves a minor subdivision. (Ord. 1107,
10-26-1993)
   B.   Contents Of Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat submitted pursuant to
this section shall contain the following:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
         b.   The location of the proposed subdivision by township, section,
town and range or by other legal description.
         c.   The names and addresses of the developer and designer who made
the plan.
         d.   The scale of the plan: One inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100')
or larger.
         e.   The date.
         f.   A north point.
      2.   Delineation Of Existing Conditions:
         a.   The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision shall be indicated
by a solid heavy line and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby.
         b.   The locations, widths and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights of way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or
permanent easements and section and corporation lines within or adjacent to the
tract shall be indicated.
         c.   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract or adjacent to the tract shall be shown, indicating
pipe sizes, grades, manholes and exact locations.
         d.   The boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided or
subdivided land shall be shown, indicating ownership where possible.
         e.   The existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and adjacent
tracts shall be shown in zoned areas.
         f.   Contours, at two foot (2') intervals, shall be shown except where
the topography of the tract demands one foot (1') contour intervals, or when
approved by the city engineer, contours at five foot (5') intervals may be
provided.
         g.   The layout of proposed streets, with the widths of rights of way
and the widths of crosswalks and easements, shall be shown.
         h.   The layout, numbers and dimensions of lots shall be shown.
         i.   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision shall
be shown.
         j.   Building setback lines shall be indicated, showing the dimensions
thereof.
         k.   Easements shall be provided for any and all public utilities
where alleys are not provided; proper continuity for the utilities from block
to block shall be maintained.
         l.   The location, size and approximate grades of proposed sewers
shall be shown.
         m.   The proposed street grades shall be indicated. (1996 Code § 26-
33)
         n.   The proposed location of water, sewer and gas service connection
locations, electric and telephone pedestals, and street lighting locations
shall be shown.
         o.   The location, size and approximate grades of the proposed master
collection system for subdrains (sump pumps for stormwater). (1996 Code § 26-
33; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Referral To Planning And Zoning Board:
      1.   The city clerk, after receiving the preliminary plat and the
applicable filing fee, shall refer the preliminary plat to the planning and
zoning board and the city engineer, who shall collaborate with the subdivider
and the planning and zoning board in assembling plans for the design and
construction of streets, public utilities, street lighting, and such other
public improvements as are required by this title or any other city ordinance.
(1996 Code § 26-34; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
      2.   The city engineer, upon receipt of the preliminary plat, shall,
within fifteen (15) business days, review the same and supply the subdivider
with a written list of deficiencies, if any, that do not comply with city
ordinance requirements for preliminary plans. (1996 Code § 26-34; amd. 2010
Code)
      3.   At the discretion of the city engineer, the preliminary plan may be
placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled planning and zoning board
meeting as a "discussion only" item.
      4.   Upon receipt of a revised preliminary plan, or if the subdivider
chooses to submit the original preliminary plan to the planning and zoning
board and notifies the city engineer of this decision, the city engineer shall
schedule the preliminary plat for public hearing at the next regularly
scheduled planning and zoning board meeting which allows for the required time
for publication of notice of the date, place and time of the hearing. The
planning and zoning board may, but is not required to, schedule a special
planning and zoning board meeting in order to accommodate the required public
notification, the subdivider's desired schedule, and the availability of
planning and zoning board members to make a quorum for the special date. (1996
Code § 26-34; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
   D.   Approval Or Disapproval:
      1.   The approval of a preliminary plat by the planning and zoning board
and the city council shall be tentative only, involving merely the general
acceptability of the layout as submitted.
      2.   The planning and zoning board may recommend, or the city council may
require, such changes or revisions in the plat as are deemed necessary in the
interest and needs of the community. (1996 Code § 26-35; amd. Ord. 1582, 3-20-
2012)
      3.   After the planning and zoning board recommends the preliminary plat
to the city council for approval and the city council approves the preliminary
plat prior to approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall submit to the
city engineer, or the county engineer where applicable, for approval, the
engineering proposals pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and
sewage disposal, gas and electric service, street lighting, fire hydrants,
grading, gradients and roadway widths, and the design of streets and curbs.
(1996 Code § 26-35; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
      4.   No final plat will be approved for the subdivision of land which is
subject to periodic flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage
facilities and which would make adequate drainage of the streets impossible;
however, if the subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the
opinion of the city engineer, or the county engineer where applicable, make the
area completely safe for residential occupancy and provide adequate street
drainage, the final plat may be approved. (1996 Code § 26-35; amd. 2010 Code)
      5.   The approval of a preliminary plat by the planning and zoning board
shall be effective for a maximum period of twelve (12) months, unless, upon
application of the subdivider, the city council grants an extension. If the
final plat has not been recorded within such extended time limit, the
preliminary plat must again be submitted for approval. (1996 Code § 26-35; amd.
2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
   E.   Filing; Authority Conferred By Approval: One print of the approved
preliminary plat, signed by the mayor and the city clerk, shall be retained in
the city clerk's office and two (2) copies in the office of the city engineer.
One signed copy of the preliminary plat shall be authorization for the
subdivider to proceed with the preparation of plans and specifications for the
minimum improvements required by this title and with the preparation of the
final plat. (1996 Code § 26-36)
12-2-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Filing Final Plat: After approval of the preliminary plat by the city
council and the fulfillments of the requirements of this title, four (4) full
sized copies, one eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") copy, and two (2)
mylar copies of the final plat of the subdivision shall be submitted to the
city.
   B.   City Council Action; Plat Recorded:
      1.   Action shall be taken by the city council within sixteen (16) days
after the final plat has been submitted for approval.
      2.   Upon approval of the final plat by the city council, the developer
shall record the plat with the recorder of the county within one year; if not
recorded within that time, the city council's approval shall be null and void.
(1996 Code § 26-42; amd. 2010 Code)
   C.   Contents Of Final Plat: The final plat filed pursuant to this section
shall contain the following:
      1.   Identification And Description:
         a.   The name of the subdivision.
         b.   The location by township, section, town and range, or by other
legal description.
         c.   The names of the owners and a certification by a licensed
surveyor.
         d.   A scale one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger, shown
graphically.
         e.   The date.
         f.   A north point.
      2.   Delineation:
         a.   The boundary of the plat shall be shown, based on an accurate
traverse, with angles and linear dimensions indicated. (1996 Code § 26-44)
         b.   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets within and
adjoining the plat shall be shown.
         c.   Before the final plat of any subdivided area shall be approved
and recorded, the subdivider shall furnish profiles of all streets and alleys
in the proposed subdivision, drawn to a horizontal scale of fifty feet to the
inch (1" = 50') and a vertical scale of five feet to the inch (1" = 5').
Elevations shall be referred to a permanent recorded bench mark of the city's
datum. Street grades for primary streets shall not exceed six percent (6%).
(1996 Code § 26-44; amd. 2010 Code)
         d.   The true angles and distances to the nearest established street
lines or official monuments (not less than 3) shall be accurately described in
the plat.
         e.   A municipal, township, county or section line accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles shall be indicated.
         f.   The radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent
bearings and lengths of all arcs shall be indicated.
         g.   All easements for rights of way provided for public services and
utilities shall be shown.
         h.   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths of feet, shall be shown.
         i.   Permanent monuments shall be placed at all corners and at points
of tangency of curve lines along the boundary of the subdivision. Permanent
monuments shall be of concrete with minimum dimensions of four inches by four
inches (4" x 4") at the top, six inches by six inches (6" x 6") at the bottom
and thirty six inches (36") long with a copper dowel three-eighths inch (3/8")
in diameter, at least two and one-half inches (21/2") in length, imbedded so
that the top of the dowel shall be flush with the surface and at the center of
the monument. All lot corners not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked
by galvanized or wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least eighteen
inches (18") in length and not less than one-half inch (1/2") in diameter. The
top of the pipe or bar shall be set level with the established grade of the
ground.
         j.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property
owners, shall be shown.
         k.   Building setback lines shall be accurately shown by dimensions.
(1996 Code § 26-44)
         l.   There shall be reference to the fact that a declaration of
covenants and restrictions has been prepared by the developer and will be
recorded subsequent to the final plat, if applicable. (1996 Code § 26-44; amd.
2010 Code)
         m.   There shall be a certification by a registered surveyor to the
effect that the plat represents a survey made by him and that monuments and
markers shown thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct.
         n.   A notarized certification by the owner or by the mortgage holder
of record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas shall be included.
         o.   Certifications showing that all taxes and special assessments due
on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full shall be included.
         p.   A proper form for the approval by the city council of the plat,
with spaces for signatures, shall be set out.
         q.   Approvals by signatures of city, county and state officials
concerned of the specifications of the utility installations shall be set out.
(1996 Code § 26-44)
         r.   Approvals by signatures of the planning and zoning board shall be
set out. This approval of the final plat shall not be deemed to constitute or
effect any acceptance by the public of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way or space shown on the plat. (1996 Code § 26-44; amd. Ord.
1582, 3-20-2012)
   D.   Statement To Accompany Plat For Recording: The final plat or section of
the master plat to be filed for record shall be accompanied by a statement
signed by the owner and the subdivider setting forth the following:
      1.   The plans and specifications for the improvements previously
approved by the city engineer or the county engineer, clearly describing the
improvements.
      2.   An agreement executed by the owner and the subdivider where they
agree to make and install the improvements required by this title in accordance
with the plans and specifications accompanying the final plat.
      3.   In lieu of completion of the improvements required for the entire
master plat, to post a bond in the amount of the estimate of the city engineer
of the cost of the installation of the improvements, with good and sufficient
surety thereon to be approved by the city council, conditioned upon the
installation of the required improvements within two (2) years of the sale of
any lot in the subdivision.
      4.   In lieu of the requirements of subsections D2 and D3 of this
section, in the event the owner and the subdivider shall submit evidence of the
existence of a binding agreement with a responsible contractor agreeing to
accept all bonds which may be issued under any local improvement proceeding for
the installation of the required improvements or a bona fide and subsisting bid
by a responsible person for the purchase for cause of local improvement bonds
at par value or more, then the requirements of subsections D2 and D3 of this
section may be waived. (1996 Code § 26-45)
12-2-4: RECORDING PLAT:
All final plats of subdivisions, after they have been submitted and approved as
provided in this chapter, shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder of deeds and a mylar copy and digital scan of the recorded plat
returned to the city. (1996 Code § 26-26; amd. 2010 Code)
12-2-5: BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT PLATS AND LOT CONSOLIDATION PLATS:
   A.   In the case of the sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between
adjoining property owners, where such sale or exchange does not create
additional lots and where the original lots are not reduced below the minimum
sizes required by the zoning ordinance, and where other requirements of the
zoning ordinance are complied with, such owners shall submit to the Director of
Building and Zoning a plat showing the proposed adjustment of lot lines
together with proposed and/or existing easements, existing permanent buildings,
and other existing substantial visible improvements to the property. The
information shown on the plat shall be attested to as correctness by both the
owner/developer and an Illinois registered land surveyor, by signing and
sealing the plat.
   B.   In the case of the consolidation of parcels of land where the pre-
existing number of parcels or recorded lots is reduced, and where other
requirements of the zoning ordinance are complied with, such owners shall
submit to the Director of Building and Zoning a plat showing the proposed
consolidation of lot lines together with proposed and/or existing easements,
existing permanent buildings, and other existing substantial visible
improvements on the property. The information shown on the plat shall be
attested to as correctness by both the owner/developer and an Illinois
registered land surveyor, by signing and sealing the plat.
   C.   The following information shall be required on all boundary adjustment
plats and lot consolidation plats:
      1.   All requirements of Section
12-2-3.C (Contents of Final Plat) of the City of Jerseyville Code, except for
the following sub-sections, which are not applicable and/or a previously
completed task as part of Final Plat approval: 2.c., 2.e., 2.1. , 2.p., 2.q.,
and 2.r.
      2.   A signature block for both the Director of Building and Zoning and
the Director of Public Works.
      3.   All requirements of Section
12-3-4 (Easements) of the City of Jerseyville Code shall be followed. Existing
locations/widths/types of utility and drainage easements shall be indicated.
Any existing easements to be vacated shall be approved only after the owner/
developer has received and provided to City written approval for such vacation
from all affected utility companies, as well as abutting property owner(s) that
utilize/are directly affected by vacated easements. Any proposed locations/
widths/types of utility and drainage easements shall also be indicated.
      4.   All requirements of Section
12-3-5 (Building Lines) of the City of Jerseyville Code shall be followed.
      5.   Existing lot number/letter designations shall be indicated, along
with revised lot number/letter designations, if applicable.
      6.   Existing lot lines to be vacated shall be indicated, and proposed
lot lines shall be indicated with a differing line-style.
      7.   Existing easement areas to be vacated shall be indicated, and
proposed easement areas shall be indicated with a differing linestyle.
      8.   Existing property corner pins/monuments no longer applicable
following the boundary adjustment or lot consolidation shall be so indicated,
and proposed property corner pins/monuments to be set, and now applicable,
shall be so indicated with a differing style and/or graphical symbol.
   D.   If the Director of Building and Zoning and the Director of Public Works
find and agree that such plat and adjustment in property lines to be in order
and in compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the zoning
ordinance, the Director of Building and Zoning and the Director of Public Works
shall approve the plat administratively, without the need to bring the plat to
the Planning and Zoning Commission nor the City Council, by signing on behalf
of the City of Jerseyville. The owners shall file the plat with the Jersey
County Recorder of Deeds within sixty (60) days after approval by the Director
of Building and Zoning and the Director of Public Works. If any such plat is
not filed within this time period the approval shall expire. The owners shall
provide the City with two (2) paper copies of the recorded plat and one digital
scan of the document in PDF format, showing the county document number, as
evidence of compliance with the above requirements. (Ord. 1778, 3-8-2022)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Streets And Alleys
12-3-2: Blocks
12-3-3: Lots
12-3-4: Easements
12-3-5: Building Lines
12-3-6: Proposed Recreation And Public Use Areas
12-3-7: Preservation Of Natural And Historic Features
12-3-1: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets,
alleys or other land to be dedicated for public use shall conform to the
general development plan of the city, as approved and adopted by the city
council. Proposed streets and other public ways shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to
public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed
uses of the land to be served by such streets. (1996 Code § 26-65; amd. 2010
Code)
   A.   Right Of Way Widths: The minimum widths of rights of way for streets to
be dedicated or established under this title shall conform to the following:
(1996 Code § 26-66)
      1.   Primary streets shall have a minimum width of eighty feet (80') and
shall be located in conformity with the master street plan, or as required by
the city engineer.
      2.   Collector streets shall have a minimum width of sixty six feet
(66').
      3.   Minor streets shall have a minimum width of fifty feet (50'). (1996
Code § 26-66; amd. 2010 Code)
      4.   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum width of fifty feet (50').
      5.   The minimum widths of rights of way for two-family or apartment
developments shall be sixty six feet (66').
      6.   The minimum widths of rights of way for minor streets in single-
family developments shall be fifty feet (50'). (1996 Code § 26-66)
   B.   Traffic Flow On Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be so laid out that
their use by through traffic will be discouraged. (1996 Code § 26-67)
   C.   Width Of Crosswalks: The minimum width of crosswalks shall be ten feet
(10'). (1996 Code § 26-68)
   D.   Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one hundred
twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided. (1996 Code § 26-69)
   E.   Visibility At Intersections: Clear visibility, measured along the
centerline of the street, shall be provided for at least three hundred feet
(300') on all primary streets, two hundred feet (200') on collector streets and
at least one hundred feet (100') on all other streets. (1996 Code § 26-70; amd.
2010 Code)
   F.   Intersections Designed For Safe Traffic Flow: It shall be evidenced
that all street intersections and confluences encourage a safe traffic flow.
(1996 Code § 26-71)
   G.   Alleys:
      1.   Alleys may be required in commercial and industrial districts. The
planning and zoning board may waive such requirement if provisions are made for
service access, such as off street loading, unloading and parking consistent
with and adequate for the uses proposed. (1996 Code § 26-72; amd. Ord. 1582, 3-
20-2012)
      2.   Alleys shall be prohibited in residential areas except where
topographic or other conditions may necessitate their use. (1996 Code § 26-72)
      3.   The width of an alley shall not be less than thirty feet (30') nor
more than forty feet (40'). (1996 Code § 26-72; amd. 2010 Code)
   H.   Cul-De-Sacs: The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be seven hundred
fifty feet (750'), measured along the centerline from the intersection at its
origin, through the center of the circle to the end of the right of way. Each
cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape with a minimum
diameter of one hundred feet (100'). (1996 Code § 26-73; amd. 2010 Code)
   I.   Half Streets:
      1.   When streets adjoin unsubdivided property, a half street not less
than thirty feet (30') in width may be dedicated, and whenever a later
subdivision of property adjoins the half street, the remainder of the street
shall be dedicated at the time of platting. (1996 Code § 26-74)
      2.   Half streets shall be prohibited except where essential to the
reasonable development of the subdivision and in conformity with subsection I1
of this section or where the planning and zoning board and the city council
find it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when
the adjoining property is subdivided. Wherever a half street is adjacent to a
tract to be subdivided, the other half of the street shall be placed within
such tract. No strip or area shall be reserved along any portion of a street,
half street or alley which will prevent adjacent property owners access
thereto. (1996 Code § 26-74; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
   J.   Street Names: No street names may be used which will duplicate or be
confused with the names of existing streets. Existing street names shall be
projected wherever possible. (1996 Code § 26-75)
   K.   Restriction On Access To Through Streets: Where a subdivision borders
on or contains an existing or proposed primary street as shown on the
development plan, the planning and zoning board may require a marginal access
street or reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a nonaccess
reservation, which shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10') along the rear
property line, or such other treatment as may be adequate for protection of
residential properties and to afford separation of through and local traffic.
(1996 Code § 26-76; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
   L.   Permit For Entrances To State Roads: If the tract of land, or any part
thereof, proposed to be subdivided lies adjacent to a highway over which the
division of highways of the state has jurisdiction with respect to the
maintenance and upkeep thereof, and an entrance is desired from the highway to
the subdivision lots, streets, roadways or alleys in the proposed subdivision,
the subdivider shall submit to the city engineer a written permit therefor from
the division of highways granting the subdivider permission to obtain and
construct such an entrance. (1996 Code § 26-77; amd. 2010 Code)
12-3-2: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length; Crosswalks: The maximum length of a block shall be one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500'). Blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length may
require crosswalks. Crosswalk easements not less than ten feet (10') in width
shall be provided where deemed necessary by the planning and zoning board at
the approximate centers of the blocks. The use of additional crosswalks in any
instance to provide safe and convenient access to schools, parks or other
similar destinations may be recommended by the planning and zoning board. (1996
Code § 26-83; amd. Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
   B.   Shape: There is no specific rule concerning the shape of blocks, but
blocks shall fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision, and their
design must evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow and public
areas. (1996 Code § 26-84)
   C.   Commercial And Industrial Uses: Blocks intended for commercial and
industrial use shall be designated as such, and the plan shall show adequate
off street areas to provide for parking, loading docks and such other
facilities that may be required to accommodate motor vehicles. (1996 Code § 26-
85)
12-3-3: LOTS:
   A.   Shape: All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines, unless a variation to such rule
will give a better street and lot plan. (1996 Code § 26-91)
   B.   Double Frontage: Lots with double frontage should be avoided. (1996
Code § 26-92)
   C.   Street Abutment Required: All lots shall abut one street dedicated to
the public or an approved private street maintained by a subdivision board of
trustees. (1996 Code § 26-93)
   D.   Width:
      1.   Minimum Width:
         a.   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this title, the minimum
width of residential lots at the building line shall be as follows:
Lot Area (Square Feet) Minimum Width At Building Line (Feet)
Lot Area (Square Feet)               Minimum Width At Building Line (Feet)
6,000 or more, but less than 7,500   60
7,500 or more, but less than 10,000  70
10,000 or more, but less than 15,000 75
15,000 or more, but less than 20,000 90
20,000 or more, but less than 30,000 100
30,000 or more, but less than 1 acre 125
1 acre or more                       150
 
(1996 Code § 26-94; amd. 2010 Code)
         b.   When a lot fronts upon a cul-de-sac, a curved road or a street
having a radius of two hundred feet (200') or less, the minimum width of the
frontage of the lot may be measured at the building line, with the width at the
right of way line to be not less than fifty percent (50%) of the width required
by subsection D1a of this section, the width being measured on the arc of the
street right of way line. (1996 Code § 26-94)
      2.   Extra Width: Where a corner lot backs upon lots facing the side
street, the corner lot shall have extra width sufficient to permit the
establishment of front building lines on both the front and the side of the
lots adjoining the streets. Extra width should be provided on all corner lots
irrespective of whether they back upon lots facing the side streets. (1996 Code
§ 26-95)
   E.   Area:
      1.   The area of the street right of way, whether dedicated to the public
or a private street or easement for street purposes, shall not be included in
calculating the area of the lot to be in accordance with the minimum lot area
requirements of the zoning district in which the lot is located. Lots with an
area larger than the minimum zoning requirements are desirable.
      2.   The lots shall also have a width and depth entirely adequate to
provide the necessary yard requirements of the zoning ordinance. (1996 Code §
26-96)
      3.   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall
have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate
building site and afford the minimum usable area required in the zoning
ordinance for front, rear and side yards. (1996 Code § 26-97)
   F.   Intersections Abutting Lots: Lots upon primary street intersections and
at all other acute angle intersections which, in the opinion of the planning
and zoning board, are likely to be dangerous to traffic movement, shall have a
radius of twenty feet (20') at the street corner. On business lots, a chord may
be substituted for the circular arc. Where grade separation structures are
proposed at the intersection of primary streets, the lots and improvements in
the subdivision shall be arranged so as to make adequate provision for such a
structure. (1996 Code § 26-98; amd. 2010 Code; Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
12-3-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utility Easements:
      1.   Easements of not less than five feet (5') in width shall be provided
on each side of all rear lot lines and along side lot lines, where necessary,
for utility lines and appurtenances.
      2.   Easements of not less than fifteen feet (15') in width shall be
provided along the front lot line for utility lines and appurtenances.
      3.   Easements of greater width may be required along or across lots when
necessary for the extension of main sewers or other utilities or where both
water and sewer lines are located in the same easement.
      4.   A two foot (2') easement shall be required on one side of, and
adjacent to, an alley to accommodate utility poles.
   B.   Drainage Easements: Whenever any subdivision is traversed by a
drainageway such as a watercourse, channel or stream, the subdivider shall, at
his own expense, make adequate provision for straightening or widening the
drainageway so that it will properly carry the surface water and shall also
provide and dedicate to the city an easement along each side of the
drainageway, which easement shall be for the purpose of widening, improving or
protecting the drainageway. The width of the easement shall not be less than
twenty feet (20'), and the total width of the easement shall be adequate to
provide for any necessary drainageway relocations and straightenings. (1996
Code § 26-56; amd. 2010 Code)
12-3-5: BUILDING LINES:
   A.   Building lines shall be shown on all plats of lots within the city
which are intended for residential use of any character and on commercial or
industrial lots immediately adjoining residential areas.
   B.   Building lines on lots adjacent to primary streets shall not be less
than the building and setback lines established by the applicable zoning
regulations and any other ordinances approved by the city council.
   C.   Building lines for territory outside the incorporated limits, but
within the one and one-half (11/2) mile jurisdiction of this title, shall
conform to the provisions of the applicable city zoning ordinance. (1996 Code §
26-57; amd. 2010 Code)
12-3-6: PROPOSED RECREATION AND PUBLIC USE AREAS:
   A.   Where a proposed park, playground, lake, recreation area, or green
space/common area included within the comprehensive city plan and shown in the
development plans made a part thereof, is located in whole or in part in an
area being subdivided, the subdivider shall dedicate such lands to the public
as a part of the final subdivision plat. However, in no case shall the amount
of these required public areas to be dedicated, in addition to public streets
and alleys, exceed ten percent (10%) of the total gross acreage owned or
controlled by one developer.
   B.   Where the area for the proposed park, playground, lake, recreation
area, or green space/common area exceeds ten percent (10%) of the total gross
area owned or controlled by one developer, that part of the lands in excess of
ten percent (10%) of the total area shall also be shown on all subdivision
plans and plats, and the acquisition of the additional areas needed for parks,
playgrounds, lakes, recreation areas, or green space/common areas, other than
public streets and alleys, shall be secured by the city or arrangements made
for the acquisition of the area from the subdivider at the cost of the
unimproved land within a period not to exceed three (3) years from the date of
approval of the preliminary plan.
   C.   Where less than ten percent (10%) of the total gross area being
subdivided is proposed for parks, playgrounds, lakes, recreation areas, or
green space/common areas, including public streets and alleys, under the
comprehensive city plan, the subdivider shall dedicate the area so required
and, in addition, pay to the city clerk a sum of money so that either or both
the dedication and the payment equal ten percent (10%) of the appraised value
of the land before it is subdivided. Sums so received by the city clerk shall
be placed in a special fund to be known as the "subdivision park and recreation
site purchase fund" and used by the city solely for the purchase of land for
parks or recreation areas in accordance with the comprehensive city plan at the
direction of the city council.
   D.   For the purposes of subsection C of this section, the value of the
subject land shall be established by appraisal made by three (3) qualified
appraisers, one of whom shall be appointed by the city council, one of whom
shall be appointed by the subdivider and one of whom shall be mutually agreed
upon by the two (2) appraisers previously named. The subdivider may agree with
the city on an installment method of payment based on the sale of lots. (1996
Code § 26-58; amd. 2010 Code)
12-3-7: PRESERVATION OF NATURAL AND HISTORIC FEATURES:
In the subdividing of any land within the city or within one and one-half (11/
2) miles of the city limits, due regard shall be shown for all natural
features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots or similar
conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the
proposed development. (1996 Code § 26-59)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Compliance With Provisions
12-4-2: Streets
12-4-3: Sewers And Water Supply
12-4-4: Telephone And Electric Utility Lines
12-4-5: Sidewalks And Crosswalks
12-4-6: Privately Developed Facilities
12-4-7: Inspections
12-4-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving the approval of the
city engineer certifying that the improvements described in the subdivider's
plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the minimum
requirements of all pertinent provisions of this title and other city
ordinances and that the improvements comply with this chapter. (1996 Code § 26-
109; amd. 2010 Code)
12-4-2: STREETS:
   A.   Grades: Grades of streets shall not be in excess of six percent (6%) on
primary or collector streets, nor in excess of eight percent (8%) on other
streets, nor shall streets have a minimum grade of less than five-tenths of one
percent (0.5%). (1996 Code § 26-120; amd. 2010 Code)
   B.   Paving Standards:
      1.   Streets shall be completed in accordance with the plans, profiles,
specifications and cross sections prepared by a registered professional
engineer and approved by the city. When changes from the accepted plans and
specifications become necessary during construction, written approval from the
city shall be secured prior to the execution of such changes. (1996 Code § 26-
121)
      2.   Roadways on all streets shall be paved with a minimum six inch (6")
nonreinforced Portland cement concrete pavement with integral curb in
accordance with Illinois department of transportation bureau local roads
standard with PCC curbs and gutters at least twenty four inches (24") wide and
not less than six inches (6") thick where the curb butts the pavement. In
either case, the "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction",
current adopted edition, and any additions or revisions thereto from the
effective date hereof, shall govern the materials used and the construction of
the street improvements. (1996 Code § 26-121; amd. 2010 Code)
      3.   The type of curb to be used with the integral pavement (mountable
barrier, V-type, rollover) is to be discussed with the city prior to the
roadway design. The use of separate curb and guttering in lieu of the integral
curb may be permitted upon the written approval of the city.
      4.   In other than residential areas, a structural pavement design based
upon the anticipated or expanded future average daily traffic must be made for
the subdivider by a registered professional engineer. The design year, average
daily traffic, and other parameters to be used in this design shall be
discussed with the city prior to its use. The use or deletion of pavement
reinforcing shall also be discussed at that time. The use of a gravel or
crushed stone base can only be used as a base course for minor streets or
alleys.
      5.   All water, sewer and utilities shall be completed prior to final
construction of the street pavement. (1996 Code § 26-121)
   C.   Special Paving Requirements:
      1.   All new streets in single-family residential subdivisions within the
city dedicated or platted after the effective date hereof shall be improved
with roadway paving in accordance with standard specifications of the city,
bounded by Portland cement concrete V-type gutters not less than twenty four
inches (24") in width and having a thickness of not less than six inches (6").
(1996 Code § 26-123)
      2.   Any street in a subdivision containing two-family or apartment
developments shall have a sixty foot (60') minimum right of way, a thirty six
foot (36') pavement width, including concrete curbs, and sidewalks along both
sides of the street according to standard specifications, and a minimum radius
of curvature of one hundred thirty feet (130'). (1996 Code § 26-124)
   D.   Width Of Roadway:
      1.   The width of paving measured from back to back of curbs shall be in
accordance with the following dimensions:
 
Type Of Street Roadway Width (Feet)
Primary        52
Collector      40
Minor          32
Cul-de-sac     28
 
(1996 Code § 26-122; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   The particular road classification that will be used in the design
shall be determined by the traffic volumes as determined in the pavement design
and the design policies for urban functional classifications as determined by
the Illinois department of transportation. The above widths do not include on
street parking, and if such parking is anticipated, additional width must be
provided as required by the city. (1996 Code § 26-122)
   E.   Existing Streets:
      1.   Use Of Accepted Street Required: Where an existing accepted public
street, with a width of fifty feet (50') and a minimum pavement width of twenty
feet (20'), is located along the frontage of a subdivision with lots having a
frontage of one hundred feet (100') or more, the subdivider shall be entitled
to subdivide the frontage along the accepted public street without any further
cost of paving, other than the costs entailed to replace paving disturbed by
sewer, water or other public utility improvements which may be included as a
part of his contract with the public utilities involved.
      2.   Substandard Street; Improvement Required:
         a.   Where an existing public street is located along the frontage of
a subdivision presented for review and has a width of less than fifty feet
(50') and the width of the accepted pavement is less than twenty feet (20'),
the subdivider shall be required to dedicate additional land sufficient to
provide a fifty foot (50') right of way and provide additional pavement to
bring the width up to a twenty foot (20') minimum before the frontage shall be
authorized for subdivision or resubdivision.
         b.   After a plat is recorded for the subdivision of the frontage
along streets of substandard width and paving, the developers of land on the
opposite side of the street shall be required to dedicate an equivalent amount
of right of way to increase the right of way to a maximum width of sixty feet
(60') and shall install pavement sufficient to increase the pavement to a
maximum width of thirty two feet (32'). However, all installations and designs
shall be subject to review and approval of the city engineer to determine that
proper adjustment is made where the widenings merge with the existing narrow
widths of pavement at the boundary of the property and to require that the
lanes are painted to designate driving and parking lanes. The widening of the
paving shall not be required where there is less than one thousand feet
(1,000') of frontage. (1996 Code § 26-125)
   F.   Off Street Parking Spaces: The minimum number of off street parking
spaces in a subdivision shall be in conformity with the zoning ordinance of the
city 1 . (1996 Code § 26-126)
   G.   Frontage Roads:
      1.   The complete design for frontage roads, including the specifications
and designation of trafficways, driving lanes, parking lanes, paving widths,
thicknesses, materials and other data, shall be submitted to the planning and
zoning board for review and approval prior to the issuance of building permits
or the sale or lease of buildings or land in planned subdivisions. (1996 Code §
26-127; amd. Ord. 1582, 3-20-2012)
      2.   Frontage roads and parking areas shall have a minimum thickness of
six inches (6") and may be constructed of portland cement concrete or with a
waterbound macadam base surfaced with asphaltic concrete or the asphaltic
penetration method.
      3.   When a frontage road is to be dedicated to public use, the
specifications shall be in accordance with the minimum width, thickness and
standards of the city. (1996 Code § 26-127)
      4.   A minimum distance of four hundred feet (400') shall be required
between points of ingress and egress to a frontage road where all property to
be subdivided is under one ownership on the effective date hereof. Where
property has frontage on a state or federal highway, the spacing and design of
the points of ingress and egress to the major highway shall be subject to
approval of the state department of transportation. (1996 Code § 26-127; amd.
2010 Code)
   H.   Corner Radii: All corners of roadways shall have radii of not less than
twenty feet (20'), and at all intersections of primary and collector streets
with other primary or collector streets, the corner radii shall be not less
than thirty feet (30'). (1996 Code § 26-128; amd. 2010 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11, chapter 13 of this code.
12-4-3: SEWERS AND WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Installation To Comply With State Regulations: Sanitary sewers and
water lines shall be installed in accordance with the plans and specifications
prepared for the subdivider by a registered professional engineer and approved
by the city. The construction of the sanitary sewers and water lines shall be
in accordance with the "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois", current edition, and any additions or revisions
thereto from the effective date hereof, and no construction shall be initiated
until the Illinois environmental protection agency has issued the applicable
construction permits for the proposed improvements. (1996 Code § 26-110; amd.
2010 Code)
   B.   Lot Width And Area:
      1.   Lots which cannot reasonably be served by either a public sanitary
sewer or a public water system shall have a minimum width of one hundred feet
(100'), measured at the building line, and a minimum area of twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet.
      2.   Lots that can reasonably be served by either a public water system
or by a public sewer system, but not by both, shall have a minimum width of
seventy five feet (75'), measured at the building line, and a minimum area of
ten thousand (10,000) square feet. (1996 Code § 26-110)
      3.   In the case of unusual soil conditions or other physical factors
which may impair the health and safety of the neighborhood in which a
subdivision may be located, upon recommendation of the county department of
public health, the city engineer may increase lot area requirements established
in subsections B1 and B2 of this section as may be necessary.
   C.   Storm Sewer System:
      1.   A storm sewer system designed for the adequate removal of stormwater
shall be provided by the subdivider. The extent to which storm sewer facilities
shall be required shall be based upon an analysis of need prepared for the
subdivider by a registered professional engineer. The analysis shall be based
upon the rational method of computing stormwater runoff using the one hour
rainfall to be expected at a twenty (20) year frequency. Times of
concentration, soil infiltration rates, and other variable factors to be used
in the analysis shall be discussed with and approved by the city during the
preliminary consideration for the subdivision. The final design calculations
shall be submitted with the roadway plans. (1996 Code § 26-110; amd. 2010 Code)
      2.   All storm drains and culverts shall be fifteen inches (15") or
larger.
      3.   All storm sewer pipe material shall conform to the applicable
sections of the standard specifications and shall be either reinforced concrete
pipe meeting the requirements of AASHTO M170, or precoated galvanized
corrugated steel pipe meeting the requirements of AASHTO M24-5 and M246, sheet
coated with polymer coating thickness of 0.010 inch (0.25 mm) on both surfaces.
All pipe shall be accompanied with the supplier's affidavit stating that the
pipe is in conformance with said standard specifications. (1996 Code § 26-110)
      4.   Surface inlets installed in the curb and gutter shall be provided by
the subdivider at spacings of a maximum of four hundred feet (400') with no
inlet draining a total roadway length in excess of four hundred (400) linear
feet. (1996 Code § 26-110; amd. 2010 Code)
      5.   A collection system to collect surface and subsurface water,
including sump pump discharges, shall be provided by the developer, and
installed prior to acceptance of the streets by the city. (2010 Code)
   D.   Time For Installation Of Lines: The water and sewer lines shall be laid
to the property lines of each lot at the time of the installation of the main
lines.
   E.   Water System:
      1.   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a source of water
for domestic use by a complete water main supply system which shall be
connected to the water facility system serving the city. (1996 Code § 26-110)
      2.   All water mains shall be a minimum of six inches (6") in size and
shall be class 200 PVC meeting ASTM 1785-67 with bell ring joints meeting ASTM
D1869, cement lined cast iron pipe with push- on or mechanical joints, or
polyethylene pipe meeting ASTM requirements. (1996 Code § 26-110; amd. 2010
Code)
      3.   Fire hydrants meeting the current city specifications shall be
installed at intervals not to exceed six hundred feet (600').
      4.   The proposed water supply system and materials must be approved by
the city.
   F.   Plans And Profiles: The subdivider shall furnish the city with two (2)
complete sets of plans and profiles as approved by the various authorities.
(1996 Code § 26-110)
12-4-4: TELEPHONE AND ELECTRIC UTILITY LINES:
   A.   Overhead Lines: All utility lines for telephone and electric services
shall be placed in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   B.   Underground Lines: Where telephone and electric service lines are
placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided area, the conduits or
cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in a manner
which will not conflict with other underground services. All transformer boxes
shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public. (1996
Code § 26-111)
12-4-5: SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Concrete Sidewalks On Primary Streets: Within the city and within one
and one-half (11/2) miles of the limits of the city, concrete sidewalks shall
be constructed along both sides of primary streets and must be installed prior
to acceptance by the city of the streets in the subdivision.
   B.   Collector And Minor Streets: Sidewalks shall be required along both
sides of collector streets and along one side of minor streets and cul-de-sacs.
   C.   Specifications: The minimum width of sidewalks shall be four feet (4'),
except on minor streets and cul-de-sacs the minimum width shall be five feet
(5') if the sidewalk is only on one side of the street. The minimum thickness
shall be four inches (4") along the frontage of lots, and the thickness shall
be increased to six inches (6") at driveways. All sidewalks shall be of
Portland cement concrete construction in accordance with the standard
specifications of the city, as specified in title 8 of this code. (1996 Code §
26-112; amd. 2010 Code)
12-4-6: PRIVATELY DEVELOPED FACILITIES:
Where the subdivision is to contain park areas, streets, or other physical
facilities which will not be maintained by the city, provision should be made
by trust agreement, which is a part of the deed restrictions and which is
acceptable to the city, for jurisdiction over the continuous maintenance,
supervision, operation and reconstruction of such facilities by the lot owners
in the subdivision. (1996 Code § 26-113; amd. 2010 Code)
12-4-7: INSPECTIONS:
All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of this title
shall be inspected during the course of construction by the city engineer or a
duly designated deputy. (1996 Code § 26-114)
TITLE 13
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Purpose
13-1-2: Definitions
13-1-3: Base Flood Elevation
13-1-4: Duties Of The Building Official
13-1-5: Development Permit
13-1-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
13-1-7: Protecting Buildings
13-1-8: Subdivision Requirements
13-1-9: Public Health And Other Standards
13-1-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
13-1-11: Variances
13-1-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
13-1-13: Penalty
13-1-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
13-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city by
the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
13-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
13-1-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally aboveground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility, which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks, and channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city of Jerseyville, the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Jerseyville, or that may be
annexed into the city of Jerseyville, that are subject to inundation by the
base flood. The floodplains of the city of Jerseyville are generally identified
as such on panel number(s) 90, 100, 180, and 200 of the countywide flood
insurance rate map of Jersey County prepared by the federal emergency
management agency dated and effective April 2, 2009. Floodplain also includes
those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
The floodplains of those parts of unincorporated Jersey County that are within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Jerseyville or that may be
annexed into the city of Jerseyville are generally identified as such on the
flood insurance rate map prepared for Jersey County by the federal emergency
management agency dated and effective April 2, 2009.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodways for each of the floodplains of the city of Jerseyville
shall be according to the best data available from federal, state, or other
sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
13-1-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed.
Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this determination. The term
includes "repetitive loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter in which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   A.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures, which have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
13-1-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Jersey
County shall be according to the best data available from federal, state or
other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be
financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations.
   B.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Jersey County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city of Jerseyville, or that may be annexed into the city of
Jerseyville, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
"Flood Insurance Study Of Jersey County" prepared by the federal emergency
management agency and dated April 2, 2009. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
13-1-4: DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The building official shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the city of Jerseyville meet the requirements of this
chapter. Specifically, the building official shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
13-1-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
13-1-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
13-1-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
13-1-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
13-1-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
13-1-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
13-1-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
13-1-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the building official. The building official shall not
issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
13-1-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the building
official shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to be higher
than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled after the
date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any
development located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and
hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood insurance rate map,
is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
The building official shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
The building official shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit not
required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The building
official shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and local
permits have been obtained. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
13-1-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
following conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources, office of
water resources statewide permit number 2:
         a.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of 1.0 foot, and
         b.   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface
profile elevation in excess of one-half foot (0.5') at a point one thousand
feet (1,000') upstream of the proposed structure.
         c.   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in
water surface profile.
         d.   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel.
         e.   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer
in the state of Illinois and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/
OWR permit.
         f.   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 3:
         a.   The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier cells, or other
similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. army corps of
engineers.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 4:
         a.   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year
flood elevation or attached to an existing bridge.
         b.   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be
constructed above the low cord elevation of the bridge.
         c.   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake
or stream.
         d.   Supporting towers including foundation and poles shall be
designed and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by
trapping debris.
         e.   All disturbed areas shall be returned to preconstruction grades
and revegetated.
         f.   All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
code, and federal requirements must be met.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 5:
         a.   The boat dock must not extend more than fifty feet (50') into a
waterway and no more than one-fourth (1/4) of the width of the waterway and
shall not extend beyond the navigational limits established by the IDNR and
corps of engineers.
         b.   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet (10').
         c.   For L-shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion
parallel to the shoreline must not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
landowner's shoreline frontage nor fifty feet (50').
         d.   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of
property lines into the waterway or come within ten feet (10') of the projected
property line.
         e.   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices.
         f.   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment
during times of high wind or water.
         g.   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units
unless they are filled with flotation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible.
         h.   This permit does not authorize any other related construction
activity such as shore protection or fill.
         i.   Nonfloating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which will
minimize obstruction to flow.
         j.   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or corps of engineers.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6:
         a.   The following activities (not involving fill or positive change
in grade) are covered by this permit:
            (1)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or
septic tanks not crossing a lake or stream.
            (2)   The construction of light poles, signposts, and similar
structures.
            (3)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios, and similar structures.
            (4)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open
structures such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports.
            (5)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, or ten (10) square feet in any dimension.
Only one such building on a property is authorized by this statewide permit.
            (6)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are
made to the outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not
involved.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7:
         a.   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end section,
shall not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent natural bank
slope or adjacent bank protection.
         b.   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour velocity
of the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the use of
riprap or other design measures.
         c.   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream
until the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation.
         d.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8:
         a.   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of the
river, lake or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet (3') of cover shall be provided.
The river, lake or streambed shall be returned to its original condition.
         b.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         c.   Any utility crossing carrying material, which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the environmental protection act 1 , shall be provided
with shutoff valves on each side of the body of water to be crossed.
         d.   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the
crossing, the permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten (10) days prior
to the blasting date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9:
         a.   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas:
stone and concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric formed
concrete, gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags,
geotechnical fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. "Urban
areas" are defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial, or
industrial development currently exists or, based on land use plans or
controls, is expected to occur within ten (10) years. (The department should be
consulted if there is a question of whether or not an area is considered
urban.)
         b.   In addition to the materials listed in subsection A8a of this
section, other materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas
provided all other conditions of this permit are met.
         c.   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto
bodies, garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials,
asphalt or other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 2 .
         d.   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, one thousand
feet (1,000').
         e.   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to
resist anticipated forces of current and wave action.
         f.   Materials shall be placed in a way, which would not cause erosion
or the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the
project.
         g.   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of the
bank.
         h.   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full width
and cross sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the bank, toe of
the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the cross sectional
area of the natural channel be reduced by more than ten percent (10%) nor the
volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot of the
stream bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and
to lessen the quantity of material required.
         i.   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area.
         j.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
         k.   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the
structure shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined
by the normal pool elevation, unless:
            (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s), and
            (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would
not exceed two (2) cubic yards per linear foot.
         l.   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, shall not be placed in a floodway.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10:
         a.   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with the
requirements of the local floodplain ordinance.
         b.   The principal structure to which the project is being added must
have been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988).
         c.   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed five hundred
(500) square feet in size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another
property, and
         d.   Must not involve the placement of any fill material.
         e.   No construction shall be undertaken in, or within fifty feet
(50') of the bank of the stream channel.
         f.   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions.
         g.   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing structure
shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for review.
         h.   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11:
         a.   The affected length of the stream shall neither singularly or
cumulatively, exceed one thousand feet (1,000').
         b.   The project shall not include the construction of any new
channel; all work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing
flows in the natural stream channel, and
         c.   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
         d.   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland
and shall be either:
            (1)   Removed from the floodway;
            (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank provided no materials
would be placed higher than the existing top of bank and provided the cross
sectional area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than ten
percent (10%), nor the volume of material placed exceed two (2) cubic yards per
linear foot of stream bank;
            (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain
area such that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
            (4)   Used to stabilize an existing levee provided the height of
the levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
            (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the
department in accordance with the conditions of the approval; or
            (6)   Used for beach nourishment, provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
         e.   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise
stabilized upon completion of construction.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12:
         a.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document
that the existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood
damage. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
            (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the
backwater induced by the existing structure, and
            (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated
with the existing structure.
         b.   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge.
         c.   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the
approach roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches
exist at an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood
headwater elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or
approved by IDNR/OWR.)
         d.   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the department's statewide permit number 9 (minor shoreline, channel and
stream bank protection activities) or statewide permit number 11 (minor
maintenance dredging activities).
         e.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 13:
         a.   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state and local
authorizations.
         b.   The term "temporary" shall mean not more than one construction
season. All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream
and floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR.
         c.   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not
cause erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks.
         d.   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of
any solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway.
         e.   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or stream
channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents that
the temporary structure will meet the requirements of special condition number
3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum,
confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the backwater
induced by the temporary structure.
         f.   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by
this permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition.
         g.   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction.
         h.   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution as
defined by the environmental protection act 3 .
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5.
2 2. 415 ILCS 5.
3 1. 415 ILCS 5.
13-1-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
13-1-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially
improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the flood
protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this section.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         b.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         c.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         d.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   All structural components below the flood protection
elevation shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (3)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (4)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
(4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred (500) square feet.
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the floodplain protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
13-1-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The city of Jerseyville shall take into account hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
13-1-6 and
13-1-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain; where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
13-1-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
13-1-6 and
13-1-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
13-1-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
floodproofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet (3') above
the level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation whichever is greater.
Floodproofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes
elevated to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to
all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-
2009)
13-1-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, the city of Jerseyville shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
13-1-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the board of zoning appeals
for a variance. The board of zoning appeals shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the city council.
The city of Jerseyville may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as
it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all
of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   The board of zoning appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protections standards of section
13-1-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
13-1-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
13-1-6 and
13-1-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
13-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city of Jerseyville or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
13-1-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the building official may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
building official shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city of Jerseyville shall make application to the circuit court
for an injunction, requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other
order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   The city of Jerseyville shall record a notice of violation on the
title of the property.
   B.   The building official shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
The building official is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension
of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing, indicate
the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary, to
resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the board of zoning appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present evidence
on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board of zoning appeals
shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the city of Jerseyville from taking such
other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-
2009)
13-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city of
Jerseyville to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance
program, however this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 1529, 3-24-2009)
