JERSEY COUNTY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-4 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Services, Pamphlet
No. 6
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the County of Jersey shall be designated as the
Code of Jersey County, and may be so cited. Such ordinances may also be cited
as the “Jersey County Code”, “county code” or “code of ordinances”.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD. The County Board of Jersey County.
   CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of Jersey County Board.
   COUNTY. Jersey County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Jersey County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   DISTRICT. A County Board district established as provided in this code.
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(3))
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   FEE or FEES. A sum of money charged by the county for carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. For the county, shall begin on December 1 of each year and end
on November 30 of the following year (see 65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(5)).
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act
or mission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   LEGAL HOLIDAY. The holidays as authorized and recognized by the County Board
in the employee agreement.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MEMBER or BOARD MEMBER. A person elected to serve on the County Board.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. Import a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the county or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a hazard
to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS and EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a county
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words “of the county” and shall be taken to mean the officer or employee
of this county having the title mentioned or performing the duties indicated.
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the County Board to impose such a fine or penalty on such officer
or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central standard time shall be the official time for the
transaction of county business, except during applicable daylight savings time
set by national or state standards when the official time shall be advanced one
hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained by or at the expense of the county shall be set and run at
the OFFICIAL TIME prescribed by this definition.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Jersey
County. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the employ
of a county as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter
be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   RETAILER. Relates to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
small quantities direct to the consumer.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The county code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   TOWNSHIP or TOWN. Shall apply interchangeably to the type of government
organization established in accordance with the provisions of the Township Law
of 1874 (see 10 ILCS 5/1-3).
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Relates to the sale of goods, merchandise,
articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of
resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)    An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, 815 ILCS 333/1 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
Chairperson and the County Board may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the county shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the County Board.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the County
Board or a certain county officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the county. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   The county shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
   all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code, or other ordinance of this
county for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance and rules to execute powers; limitations on punishments, see 55
ILCS 5/5-1113
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   COUNTY EMPLOYEES
      
32.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   COUNTY POLICIES
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
35.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
36.   COUNTY FEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Use of county logo
§ 30.01 USE OF COUNTY LOGO.
   (A)   A proposed logo (shown below) has been commissioned by the County
Clerk, based on the design of the Jersey County flag, which was developed for
the Jersey County Sesquicentennial in 1989.
   (B)   The proposed logo is approved for use on any and all county printed
and online materials, such as stationary and county officials’ websites.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd66bd3de78db96292dc50bd76968459045c499c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1211.png]
 
(Res. passed 6-12-2018)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   County government employee handbook adopted by reference
Reimbursement of Travel, Meal and Lodging Expenses
   
31.15   Definitions
   
31.16   Expenses that may be reimbursed
   
31.17   Approvals and maximum allowable reimbursement for expenses
   
31.18   Approval of expenses
   
31.19   Documentation of expenses
   
31.20   Entertainment expenses
   
31.21   Concerning reimbursement
Sexual Harassment
   
31.35   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
31.36   Definition of sexual harassment
   
31.37   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
31.38   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
31.39   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
Equal Employment Policy
   
31.50   Policy
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 COUNTY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Jersey County Government Employee Handbook, adopted in March, 2016, is
adopted by reference as if set out length in full herein. Copies of the
handbook are available in the county offices.
(Adopted 3 -2016)
REIMBURSEMENT OF TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES
§ 31.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events or any other place of public or private entertainment
or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or event.
   TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees,
officers or by wards or charges of the county involving reimbursement to
travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing transportation or
related services.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 31.16 EXPENSES THAT MAY BE REIMBURSED.
   (A)   An official of the county shall be entitled to reimbursement for
travel, including meals or lodging, related to the following types of official
business:
      (1)   Education conferences related to the duties of the officer of the
county;
      (2)   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the county;
      (3)   Case site visits by governing bodies;
      (4)   Meetings of governing bodies; and
      (5)   Other travel as authorized by County Board Chairperson in
compliance with county regulations.
   (B)   An employee shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel, including
meals or lodging, related to the following types of official business:
      (1)   Education conferences related to the duties of the employee of the
county;
      (2)   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the county;
      (3)   Transportation of prisoners, probationers or other persons in the
county’s custody, law enforcement and investigative efforts;
      (4)   Transportation of county equipment;
      (5)   Case site visits by governing bodies;
      (6)   Home/office visits as required for clients and the like;
      (7)   Travel between county offices as authorized by department head;
      (8)   Meetings of governing bodies;
      (9)   Marketing of locations in the county to prospective businesses/
consultants; and
      (10)   Other travel as authorized by the department head in compliance
with county regulations.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 31.17 APPROVALS AND MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES.
   Unless otherwise stated herein, the necessary approval of expenses and the
maximum allowable reimbursement for an employee or officer of the county shall
be those set by the county’s “Resolution Concerning Reimbursement for Travel
and Meal Expenses in the Conduct of County Business” (included as Exhibit A to
Ord. 17-1 and made a part of this code of ordinances as if set in full) in
effect at the time the expense was incurred.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 31.18 APPROVAL OF EXPENSES.
   The Board must approve the following reimbursements for travel, including
meals or lodging, by a roll call vote at an open meeting of the Board:
   (A)   Any expense of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
permitted in §
31.17; or
   (B)   Any expense of any member of the Board.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 31.19 DOCUMENTATION OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   Before any reimbursement for travel, including meals or lodging, may
be approved pursuant to §
31.18, a standardized form for submission of travel, meal and lodging expenses
supported by the following minimum documentation shall first be submitted to
the Board (form included as Exhibit B, to Ord. 17-1 and made a part of this
code of ordinances as if set in full):
      (1)   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals or lodging
if the expenses have already been incurred;
      (2)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal or lodging expense;
      (3)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal or lodging expense; and
      (4)   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   (B)   All documents and information submitted under this section are public
records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS 140/
1 et seq.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 31.20 ENTERTAINMENT EXPENSES.
   No employee or officer of the county shall be reimbursed by the county for
any entertainment expense.
(Ord. 17-1, passed 2-14-2017)
§ 31.21 CONCERNING REIMBURSEMENT.
   The County Board recognizes, through a legal opinion from the Jersey County
State’s Attorney, the following authority and limits of authority with regards
to the monitoring of expenditures related to official travel and related
expenses.
   (A)   The County Board holds the authority to establish budgets and public
funds necessary for county officials and employees to attend training and
seminars for the purpose of education in public policy or legally mandated
certification required for the execution of responsibilities in the respective
office functions.
   (B)   Once the budgets of county elected officials such as the Treasurer,
Sheriff, Circuit Clerk, Coroner, County Clerk and Recorder of Deeds, the ETSB
(911 System) or the Veterans Assistance Commission have been established by the
County Board through a formal recorded vote, the County Board retains no
authority over these autonomous elected officials and departments to expend
funds over the course of a fiscal year for purposes deemed appropriate. The
County Board does retain the ability to monitor and take note of travel related
expenditures for the purpose of setting budget amounts in subsequent fiscal
years.
   (C)   The County Board does have direct authority over the expenditures in
the county offices and departments of appointed officials such as Animal
Control, Board of Review, Highway Department, Supervisor of Assessments, Code
Enforcement, as well as other positions the County Board creates and appoints
through an advice and consent vote. In those departments and offices under the
direct oversight authority of the County Board, the following policy shall be
in effect.
      (1)   Meals shall be reimbursed for travel on official business during
which the county official or employee has stayed overnight or away from home
for a period of at least 12 hours or more. Meals shall be reimbursed with a
maximum meal allowance rate of $50 per day while on official business.
      (2)   Reimbursement for meals shall be made via expense voucher, with the
appropriate meal receipts attached, with reimbursement made to the official or
employee within the $50 meal allowance rate, to include gratuities and tax.
Liquor shall not be eligible for reimbursement.
      (3)   Overnight lodging shall be reimbursed based on the receipt attached
to the expense voucher. Contained on the voucher shall be an explanation for
the travel and overnight stay. In-room movie rental and amenities shall not be
eligible for reimbursement. Single occupancy is allowed as a matter of policy
for officials and employees on official business.
         (a)   No overnight stay will be reimbursed if mileage to event is less
than 50 miles from home or office.
         (b)   Reimbursement for mileage accrued on personal vehicles is to be
noted on an expense voucher form for round trip mileage from home to venue of
official business. Reimbursement for personal mileage shall be at the rate
currently set by the IRS at the time of travel.
      (4)   Members of the County Board are not eligible for meal reimbursement
due to the meeting per diem allowed for attendance of meetings related to
county business.
(Res. passed 6-14-2016)
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
§ 31.35 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 2000e et seq. All persons have a right to work in an environment free from
sexual harassment Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects
individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the
county to prohibit harassment of any person by any county official, agent,
employee or county agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All county
officials, agents, employees and county agencies or offices are prohibited from
sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or
lack thereof.
(Res. passed 1-9-2018)
§ 31.36 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, being 775 ILCS 5/, which currently defines
sexual harassment as any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual
favors or any conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      (1)   Verbal. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature;
      (2)   Non-verbal. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises;
      (3)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites;
      (4)   Physical. touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault; and
      (5)   Textual/electronic. “Sexting” (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyberstalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (email, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   (C)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person”.
(Res. passed 1-9-2018)
§ 31.37 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes himself
or herself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident
(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating his or her
position to the offending employee, and his or her immediate supervisor. It is
not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following.
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express his or her objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer of
the county.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the county will not be presumed to have knowledge of the
harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside the county. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
county. However, all county employees have the right to contact the Illinois
Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the county.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Res. passed 1-9-2018)
§ 31.38 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No county official, county agency, county employee or county agency or
office shall take any retaliatory action against any county employee due to a
county employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any county employee that is
taken in retaliation for a county employee’s involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, state agency or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)    Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not take retaliatory action against an employee who discloses or threatens
to disclose to a public body conducting an investigation, or in a court, an
administrative hearing, or any other proceeding initiated by a public body,
information related to an activity, policy or practice of the employer where
the employee has a good faith belief that the activity, policy or practice (i)
violates a state or federal law, rule or regulation or (ii) poses a substantial
and specific danger to employees, public health or safety. In addition, an
employer may not take retaliatory action against an employee for disclosing or
threatening to disclose to a government or law enforcement agency information
related to an activity, policy or practice of the employer, where the employee
has a good faith belief that the activity, policy or practice of the employer
(i) violates a state or federal law, rule or regulation or (ii) poses a
substantial and specific danger to employees, public health or safety (740 ILCS
174/15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire, to
retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that which he or she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted or
participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge, due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of the
alleged retaliation.
(Res. passed 1-9-2018)
§ 31.39 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A FALSE REPORT is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven.
   (B)   Given the seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or
frivolous report is a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary
action. Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge
pursuant to applicable county policies, employment agreements, procedures,
employee handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreements.
(Res. passed 1-9-2018) Penalty, see §
31.99
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY
§ 31.50 POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the term MINORITY will refer to
American Indians, Asians, blacks or Hispanics, or to such protected classes as
youth, elderly, women or persons with disabilities.
   (B)   The county, hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce and advocate
for all laws related to equal employment opportunity including, but not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d
et seq., which prohibits discrimination in the participation in or benefits of
programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of
race, color or national origin;
      (2)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e
et seq., which prohibits discrimination because of race color, religion, sex or
national origin in all employment practices including hiring, firing,
promotions, compensation and other terms, privileges and conditions of
employment;
      (3)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, being 20 U.S.C. §§
1681 et seq., which prohibits discrimination in federally assisted education
programs;
      (4)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., which
covers all employees who are covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Act
forbids pay differentials on the basis of sex;
      (5)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.,
which prohibits discrimination because of age against anyone between the ages
of 40 and 65;
      (6)   Federal Executive Order 11246, as amended, which requires every
contract with federal financial assistance to contain a clause against
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin;
      (7)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. §
794, and DOL Implementing Regulations at 29 C.F.R. part 32, which prohibits any
discrimination, based on disability;
      (8)   Section 188 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of
2014, which provides that no person in the United States shall be excluded from
participation in, be denied the benefits of or be subjected to discrimination
on the basis of race, color or national origin, under any program or activity
receiving federal financial assistance from the Department of Labor;
      (9)   Article I, § 17-19, of the Illinois Constitution, which prohibits
discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry, disability and
sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer; and
      (10)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, being 42 U.S.C. §§
12101 et seq., which prohibits any discrimination against qualified individuals
with disabilities on the basis of their disability.
   (C)   The county will assure non-discriminatory employment practices in
recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or termination,
promotion, demotion or transfer, rate of pay or other forms of compensation and
use of facilities.
   (D)   The county will not contract with other agencies, banks, businesses,
vendors and the like who practice or establish a pattern of discrimination
based on sex, color, race, religion, age, national origin, political
affiliation or belief.
   (E)   The county will incorporate into any contract for construction work,
or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules, regulations and orders
of the Secretary of Labor or of any prior authority that remain in effect,
which is paid for in whole or in part with the aid of such financial
assistance, the following equal opportunity clause.
      (1)   The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, disability or
national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed, and the employees are treated during employment,
without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, national origin or
disability. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment
advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of
compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The
contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this
nondiscrimination clause.
      (2)   The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisement for
employee’s places by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin or disability.
      (3)   In the event of the contractor’s noncompliance with the equal
opportunity clause or with any of the said rules, regulations, and orders, this
contract may be canceled, terminated or suspended in whole or in part and the
contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts or
federally assisted construction contracts.
      (4)   The contractor will include the provisions of this equal
opportunity clause in every subcontract or purchase order, unless exempted, by
the rules, regulations or orders of the Secretary of Labor so that such
provisions will be binding upon each such subcontractor or vendor.
   (F)   The county assures that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory
outreach, selection and service to all individuals.
   (G)   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the county as well
as the surrounding areas.
   (H)   The county will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural limitations.
   (I)   All the county employees are expected to adhere to the above policy
and to work actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out
village activities.
   (J)   The county designates the County Board Chairperson and the County
Clerk to carry out the EEO/AA plan.
(Ord. 2013-01, passed 2-12-2013; Ord. passed 6-9-2015)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
      (1)   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable
pursuant to county policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee
handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this
policy or the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the county and any applicable fines and penalties established
pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each violation may
constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the county shall be
separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any
fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a state or federal agency.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the state police, a
State’s Attorney, the Attorney General or any other law enforcement official is
guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Res. passed 1-9-2018)
CHAPTER 32: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Coordinator
   
32.03   Functions
   
32.04   Service as a mobile support team
   
32.05   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
32.06   Emergency action
   
32.07   Compensation
   
32.08   Reimbursement by state
   
32.09   Purchases and expenditures
   
32.10   Oath
   
32.11   Office
   
32.12   Appropriation; levy of taxes
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the county Emergency Services and Disaster
Agency (“ESDA”) to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage
resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile
action, or from natural or human-made disaster, in accordance with the Illinois
Emergency Services and Disaster Act of 1975.
   (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and such additional members
as may be selected by the coordinator.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.02 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   (1)   The coordinator of the county ESDA shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the County Board and shall serve until removed by the same.
      (2)   The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to
the direction and control of the Chairperson of the County Board as provided by
statute.
   (B)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
as the coordinator, the Chairperson of the County Board or any person
designated by him or her, shall be and act as coordinator until a new
appointment is made as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.03 FUNCTIONS.
   The county ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the county as shall
be prescribed in and by the state ESDA plan and program prepared by the
Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
Governor, and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided by the State ESDA Act of 1975.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.04 SERVICE AS A MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   (1)   All or any members of the county organization may be designated
as members of a mobile support team created by the director of the state ESDA
as provided by law.
      (2)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the county ESDA organization.
   (B)   (1)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a county employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office.
      (2)   Any such member who is not paid officer or employee of the county,
while so serving, shall receive from the state reasonable compensation as
provided by law.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.05 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The coordinator of ESDA may negociate mutual aid agreements with other
counties or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the County Board and by the State
Director of ESDA.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the county ESDA to
cooperate fully with the state ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.07 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid employees or officers of the county, if
called for training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time
spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position
held; members who are not such county employees or officers shall receive for
such training time such compensation as may be established by County Board.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.08 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The State Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the county for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
the county in response to a call by the Governor of State Director of ESDA, as
provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to ESDA
activities as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.09 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The County Board may, on recommendation of the county coordinator of
ESDA, authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the county in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from human-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the county coordinator
of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the county, to procure such services,
supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view
of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or normalities
normally prescribed by law pertaining to county contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the State ESDA Act of 1975, provided that if the County Board
meets at such time he or she shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.10 OATH.
   Every persons appointed to serve in any capacity in the county ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe the
following oath, which shall be filed with the coordinator:
“I, ___________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government
of the United States by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
affiliated with the Jersey County ESDA organization, I will not advocate nor
become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or this State by force or
violence.”
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.11 OFFICE.
   The Chairperson of the County Board is authorized to designate space in a
county building, or elsewhere, as may be provided by the County Board for the
county ESDA as its office.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
§ 32.12 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The County Board may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner
provided by law, and may levy in addition for ESDA purposes a tax not to exceed
$0.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all
other taxes as provided by the State ESDA Act of 1975; however, that amount
collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed $0.25 per capita.
(Ord. passed 2-2-1976)
CHAPTER 33: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
Purchasing and Competitive Bidding
   
33.001   Overview
   
33.002   Purchases of $500 or less
   
33.003   Purchases greater than $500 and up to $5,000
   
33.004   Purchases greater than $5,000 and up to $30,000
   
33.005   Purchases in excess of $30,000
   
33.006   Emergency or unique purchases
   
33.007   Additional regulations
   
33.008   Fraud
   
33.009   Irregularities; investigation
Disability Accessibility
   
33.020   Policy
Fraud and Abuse of Public Funds
   
33.035   Policy
Periodic Sale of County Surplus Personal Property
   
33.050   Periodic sale
   
33.051   Intergovernmental agreement
Protecting Individuals Engaged in Nonviolent Civil Rights Demonstrations
   
33.065   Policy
Ethics
   
33.080   Definitions
   
33.081   Prohibited political activities
   
33.082   Gift ban
   
33.083   Ethics advisor
Investment
   
33.090   Policy
 
   
33.999   Penalty
PURCHASING AND COMPETITIVE BIDDING
§ 33.001 OVERVIEW.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the fair and
equitable treatment of all persons involved during purchasing by the county, to
maximize the purchasing value of public funds in procurement and to provide
safeguards for maintaining a procurement system of quality and integrity.
   (B)   Consequently, the following should be recognized.
      (1)   Purchases by the County Highway Engineer shall be in accordance
with this subchapter, except that such purchases shall be reported to and
approved by the County Board Committee on Roads and Bridges, and where
appropriate, forwarded to the County Board for report and approval.
      (2)   It is recognized that certain county officers, elected officials
and agencies may have independent statutory authority to purchase their own
services, materials, equipment and supplies. These county officers, officials
and agencies are encouraged to pursue the processes set forth in this
subchapter.
      (3)   Single purchases or contracts of any amount shall not be broken
down to amounts less than the limits of their respective section in an attempt
to circumvent the objective of this policy.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
§ 33.002 PURCHASES OF $500 OR LESS.
   (A)   Purchases of, or contracts for, materials, supplies, equipment,
improvements or services for which funds are provided in the budget, where the
total amount to be expended is not in excess of $500 shall be made at the
discretion of the department head, in consultation with the respective County
Board standing oversight or ad hoc committee.
   (B)   While these purchases may not require formal or informal competitive
bidding, they shall require prior approval and oversight by the respective
department head.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
§ 33.003 PURCHASES GREATER THAN $500 AND UP TO $5,000.
   (A)   Purchases of, or contracts for, materials, supplies, equipment,
improvements or services for which funds are provided in the budget, where the
total amount to be expended is between $500 and $5,000, shall be made by the
appropriate department head, in consultation with the appropriate County Board
standing oversight or ad hoc committee and with delegated authority by the
County Board.
   (B)   All practical efforts should be made to solicit bids from at least
three persons or entities engaged in the business of furnishing such materials,
supplies, equipment and public improvements or rendering such services. An
award shall be made to the business offering the lowest acceptable quotation.
Adequate records to document the efforts and results of obtaining competitive
price quotations shall be maintained.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
§ 33.004 PURCHASES GREATER THAN $5,000 AND UP TO $30,000.
   (A)   Any purchases greater than $5,000 and up to $30,000 should be
subjected to the process of competitive bidding.
   (B)   The department head or Committee Chairperson shall oversee the
development of the bid proposal document which provides specifications for the
purchase or contract to be performed.
   (C)   Every effort shall be made to solicit bids from at least three persons
or entities engaged in the business of furnishing such materials, supplies,
equipment and public improvements or rendering such services.
   (D)   A public invitation may be made in the form of advertising for bids in
a newspaper published within the county, or in general circulation within the
county, or public notice through the internet website maintained by the county
government, or other means available in order to obtain far ranging bid
solicitation.
   (E)   Bids shall be awarded to the lowest, most responsive, responsible
bidder as determined by the appropriate County Board standing oversight or ad
hoc committee and are subject to the right of the appropriate committee to
reject any and all bids, to waive any irregularity in the bids or bidding
procedures and also subject to the right of the committee to award bids and
contracts to bidders other than the low bidder. These conditions shall be in
effect up until a formal contract is executed.
   (F)   In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the County Board shall
take into consideration the qualities of the articles supplied; their
conformity with the specifications; their suitability to the requirements of
the county; availability of support services; uniqueness of the service,
materials, equipment or supplies as it applies to networked, integrated
computer systems, compatibility to existing equipment; and the delivery terms.
   (G)   Adequate records to document the competition shall be maintained. No
award shall be made without prior appropriation and current amounts available
in such fund for payment and prior approval of the appropriate County Board
standing oversight or ad hoc committee.
   (H)   Recommendations for approval of purchases shall be made by the
respective committee to the County Board, with approval provided by the County
Board at a regular or special meeting.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
§ 33.005 PURCHASES IN EXCESS OF $30,000.
   Bids for purchases above the $30,000 threshold shall be awarded in the same
manner as set forth in §
33.004, except these additional requirements shall pertain.
   (A)   All contracts in excess of $30,000, other than professional services,
shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding, or as otherwise approved by the
County Board.
   (B)   A public invitation shall be made in the form of advertising for bids
in a newspaper published within the county, or in general circulation within
the county, or public notice through the internet website maintained by the
county government, or other means available in order to obtain far ranging bid
solicitation. All bids shall be received in the County Board office on, or
before, the date and time set forth in the advertisement.
   (C)   The County Board may also take into consideration whether a bidder is
a private enterprise or a state controlled enterprise and, notwithstanding any
other provision of this section or a lower bid by a state-controlled
enterprise, may let a contract to the lowest responsible bidder that is a
private enterprise.
   (D)   Contracts in cooperation with the federal government, state government
or purchases of used equipment, purchases at auction or similar transactions
which by their very nature are not suitable to competitive bids, or purchases
pursuant to the Illinois Governmental Joint Purchasing Act, being 30 ILCS 525/,
may be made accordingly without formal bids by the county, but will otherwise
meet the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
§ 33.006 EMERGENCY OR UNIQUE PURCHASES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, a contract
for the procurement of services, materials, equipment and supplies may be
authorized by the Chairperson of the County Board in the event that conditions
exist and pose a threat to public health, welfare and safety, or to prevent or
minimize serious disruption of government service; provided that such emergency
procurements shall be made with such competition as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (B)   A written determination of the basis of the emergency and the
selection of the particular contractor shall be included in the contract file,
and shall be submitted to the appropriate standing oversight or ad hoc
committee, as well as the County Board.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
§ 33.007 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter requires that all parties in the procurement,
negotiation, performance or administration of any county contracts act in good
faith. Contract requirements shall not be artificially divided so as to avoid
the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   It is the intent of this subchapter to comply with all applicable
federal and state purchasing requirements, including the State Counties Code.
The county acknowledges that in the letting of a particular contract, the
procedures may vary depending upon the requirements of the federal or state
funding source, the nature of the purchase or other requirements. This could
include, but is not limited to, the Illinois Joint Purchasing Act, being 30
ILCS 525/, the Architectural, Engineering and Land Surveying Qualifications
Based Selection Act, being 30 ILCS 535/, and any other applicable law, rule or
regulation. Whenever permitted by law, the requirements of this chapter shall
provide the minimum standards for the letting of contracts by the county.
Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent any county agency, department or
entity from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant, gift, bequest
or cooperative purchasing agreement that is otherwise consistent with the law.
   (C)   Any ordinances or policy resolutions previously adopted by the county
are superseded and held to be null and void with regards to purchasing
procedures for the county government.
   (D)   The process and instructions to bidders is attached to this chapter
under the title of Appendix A: Instructions to Bidders, which is adopted by
reference as part of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
§ 33.008 FRAUD.
   The following actions are recognized as fraud:
   (A)   Any dishonest or fraudulent act as defined by state statute;
   (B)   Misappropriation of funds, securities, supplies or other public
assets;
   (C)   Impropriety in the handling or reporting of money or financial
transactions;
   (D)   Profiteering as a result of insider knowledge of county government
activities;
   (E)   Disclosing confidential or proprietary information to outside parties;
   (F)   Disclosing to other persons security activities engaged in or
contemplated by the county government;
   (G)   Destruction, removal or inappropriate use of records, furniture,
fixtures, or equipment through public origin funds; and
   (H)   As stated earlier, single purchases or contracts of any amount shall
not be broken down to amounts less than the limits of their respective section
in an attempt to circumvent the objective of this policy.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
INVESTMENT
§ 33.009 IRREGULARITIES; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   In the matter of irregularities concerning an employee’s moral,
ethical or behavioral conduct, these issues shall be addressed and resolved by
the respective county government department head in accordance with established
employee policies and/or collective bargaining contract provisions. If there is
any question as to whether an action constitutes fraud, the State’s Attorney
shall be contacted for advice and guidance.
   (B)   The County State’s Attorney has the primary responsibility for the
coordination of any investigation of all suspected fraudulent acts as defined
in this policy. If the investigation substantiates that fraudulent activities
have occurred, the State’s Attorney will issue reports to the appropriate
designated personnel and, if appropriate, to the County Board through the
Personnel Committee of the County Board. Any decisions to prosecute or refer
the examination to the appropriate law enforcement and/or regulatory agencies
for independent investigation will be made in conjunction with the State’s
Attorney, County Board or other involved entities, as will final decisions on
disposition of the case.
   (C)   The State’s Attorney treats all information received confidentially.
Individuals who make reports of suspected fraud may do so without fear of
reprisal. Any employee who suspects dishonest or fraudulent activity must
notify the State’s Attorney immediately, and must not attempt to personally
conduct investigations or interviews or interrogations related to any suspected
fraudulent act. The identity of any employee or complainant reporting
information to the State’s Attorney shall remain anonymous and confidential.
All inquiries concerning the activity under investigation from the suspected
individual, his or her attorney or representative, or any other inquirer should
be directed to the State’s Attorney or entity conducting the investigation. The
State’s Attorney is responsible for the administration, interpretation, and
application of this policy. The policy will be reviewed annually and revised by
the County Board as needed.
   (D)   Investigation results will not be disclosed or discussed with any
party other than those individuals or ones that have a legitimate need to have
knowledge of the investigation. The purpose of this policy is to avoid damaging
the reputations of persons suspected, but subsequently found innocent of, any
wrongful conduct and to protect the county from potential civil liability.
   (E)   Adoption of this subchapter shall provide the State’s Attorney or
other authorized investigative or law enforcement body with free and
unrestricted access to all county records and premises, whether owned or
rented; and the authority to examine, copy and/or remove all or any portion of
the contents of files, desks, cabinets and other storage facilities on the
premises without prior knowledge or consent of any individual who might use or
have custody of any such items or facilities when it is within the scope of his
or her investigation.
   (F)   If an investigation results in a recommendation to terminate an
individual, the recommendation will be reviewed for approval by the county
government department head, in consultation with the County Board Personnel
Committee and legal counsel before any such action is taken. The decision to
terminate an employee is made by the county government department head.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2018)
DISABILITY ACCESSIBILITY
§ 33.020 POLICY.
   (A)   The county shall enforce accessibility standards for disabled
individuals that comply and/or are in accordance with the 504 accessibility
standards for disabled individuals in accordance with § 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, being 29 U.S.C. § 749.
   (B)   The county hereby adopts by reference the rules and regulations
regarding individuals with disabilities issued by the United States Department
of Justice, being 28 C.F.R. pt. 35 (Title II).
   (C)   The County Board will notify the public and other interested parties
that the County Board meetings, hearings and conferences will be held in
accessible locations and that assistance will be provided, upon request, to
interested participants with disabilities.
   (D)   Complaints will be accepted, noted and discussed at subsequent County
Board meetings.
   (E)   All future construction and renovation work involving public
facilities will be designed to accommodate disabled individuals.
   (F)   Transportation, facilities to communicate with hearing-impaired
persons and other required measures needed by disabled individuals will be
available to those individuals interested in participating in community
activities, provided enough advance notice is given to local officials.
(Res. passed 6-9-2015)
FRAUD AND ABUSE OF PUBLIC FUNDS
§ 33.035 POLICY.
   (A)   The following actions are recognized as constituting fraud:
      (1)   Any dishonest or fraudulent act as defined by state statute;
      (2)   Misappropriation of funds, securities, supplies or other public
assets;
      (3)   Impropriety in the handling or reporting of money or financial
transactions;
      (4)   Profiteering as a result of insider knowledge or the county
government activities;
      (5)   Disclosing confidential or proprietary information to outside
parties;
      (6)   Disclosing to other persons securities activities engaged in or
contemplated by the county government;
      (7)   Accepting or seeking anything of material value from contractors,
vendors or persons providing services or materials to county government; and
      (8)   Destruction, removal or inappropriate use of records, furniture,
fixtures and equipment acquired through public origin funds.
   (B)   (1)   In the matter of irregularities concerning an employee’s moral,
ethical or behavioral conduct, these issues shall be addressed and resolved by
the respective county government department head in accordance with established
employee policies and/or collective bargaining contract provisions. If there is
any question as to whether an action constitutes fraud, the State’s Attorney
shall be contacted for advice and guidance.
      (2)   The County State’s Attorney has the primary responsibility for the
coordination of any investigation of all suspected fraudulent acts as defined
in this policy. If the investigation substantiates that fraudulent activities
have occurred, the State’s Attorney will issue reports to the appropriate
designated personnel and, if appropriate, to the County Board through the
Personnel Committee of the County Board. Any decisions to prosecute or refer
the examination to the appropriate law enforcement and/or regulatory agencies
for independent investigation will be made in conjunction with the State’s
Attorney, County Board or other involved entities, as will final decisions on
disposition of the case.
      (3)   The State’s Attorney treats all information received
confidentially. Individuals who make a report of suspected fraud may do so
without fear of reprisal. Any employee who suspects dishonest or fraudulent
activity must notify the State’s Attorney immediately, and must not attempt to
personally conduct investigations or interviews/interrogations related to any
suspected fraudulent act. The identity of any employee or complainant reporting
information to the State’s Attorney shall remain anonymous and confidential.
All inquiries concerning the activity under investigation from the suspected
individual, his or her attorney or representative, or any other inquirer should
be directed to the State’s Attorney or entity conducting the investigation. The
State’s Attorney is responsible for the administration, interpretation and
application of this policy. The policy will be reviewed annually and revised by
the County Board as needed.
      (4)   Investigation results will not be disclosed or discussed with any
party other than those individuals or entities that have a legitimate need to
have knowledge of the investigation. The purpose of this policy is to avoid
damaging the reputations of persons suspected, but subsequently found innocent
of any wrongful conduct and to protect the county from potential civil
liability.
      (5)   Adoption of this section shall provide the State’s Attorney or
other authorized investigative or law enforcement body with free and
unrestricted access to all county records and premises, whether owned or
rented; and the authority to examine, copy and/or remove all or any portion of
the contents of files, desks, cabinets and other storage facilities on the
premises without prior knowledge or consent of any individual who might use or
have custody of any such items or facilities when it is within the scope of
their investigation.
      (6)   If an investigation results in a recommendation to terminate an
individual, the recommendation will be reviewed for approval by the county
government department head, in consultation with the County Board Personnel
Committee and legal counsel, before any such action is taken. The decision to
terminate an employee is made by the county government department head.
(Res. passed 2-14-2017)
PERIODIC SALE OF COUNTY SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY
§ 33.050 PERIODIC SALE.
   (A)   In accordance with 55 ILCS 5/5-1015, the County Board desires to
establish appropriate practices for disposing of county-owned surplus personal
property, which is no longer used or needed by the various departments of
county government.
   (B)   It is in the best interests of the county for surplus personal
property having a value of $50 or more to be sold at public auction.
   (C)   The Chairperson of the County Board may authorize the sale of surplus
public property as needed, with the property to be sold to the best and highest
bidder.
   (D)   The sale of surplus property must be advertised in advance via a local
newspaper or online.
   (E)   A public auction may be conducted personally, or handled through
electronic or online means, including the State of Illinois iBid Online
Auction, or other service approved by the County Board.
   (F)   Details and archives of the sale of all county surplus property will
be held by the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. passed 10-12-2021)
§ 33.051 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT.
   This intergovernmental agreement (“agreement”) is entered into by and
between the county (“account holder”) and the Department of Central Management
Services (“CMS”), pursuant to the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act (5 ILCS
220).
   (A)   (1)   CMS has developed iBid online auction (“iBid”), which allows the
general public, through the internet, to bid, among other things, on state
surplus items and easily monitor their bids throughout the duration of a weekly
auction; and
      (2)   The account holder would like to use the iBid system to sell its
surplus property.
   (B)   CMS and the account holder agree as follows.
      (1)   General. CMS will provide access to and use of its iBid system
including, but not limited to, auction sales system, user templates, report
management system and training to the account holder at the rates set forth
below.
      (2)   Fees. The account holder agrees to the following fees and charges.
         (a)   CMS fee.
            1.   CMS will assess an administrative fee equal to 2% of the gross
sales price of each item sold by the account holder for access to and
utilization of the iBid system. Such administrative fee shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Central Management Services, State Surplus Property
Revolving Fund.
            2.   For the first 30 days of the agreement, the fee due to CMS
will be waived. Starting with the thirty-first day of the agreement, the
administrative fee will be charged to the account holder. An invoice shall be
generated and issued to the account holder at end of each month showing the
administrative fee for the prior month’s completed sales. The account holder
shall remit payment of the administrative fee to CMS within 30 days after
receipt of such invoice.
            3.   If the account holder fails to pay the administrative fee
within 60 days after receipt of an invoice, in addition to all other remedies
available at law or in equity, CMS may, in its sole discretion, limit, suspend
or terminate the account holder’s access to the iBid system.
         (b)   Credit card setup fee. If the account holder elects to accept
credit cards as a form of payment, the account holder shall pay a one-time
setup fee of $295 to Assetworks Corporation to configure the integration with
the State Treasurer’s “ePay” credit card payment gateway.
      (3)   Agreement. The account holder agrees to follow the procedures
outlined in Exhibit A, attached to the agreement codified herein and
incorporated by reference, to sell its surplus property on iBid.
      (4)   Records retention. CMS and the account holder shall maintain for a
minimum of three years after the completion of the agreement, or for a longer
period if required by applicable federal laws and regulations, all records and
supporting documents created pursuant to the agreement. Those records shall be
available for review and audit by CMS, the account holder and the Auditor
General of the state. In the event the account holder is subject to specialized
records retention requirements, the account holder shall advise CMS of such
requirements in writing.
      (5)   Laws of the state. This agreement shall be governed in all respects
by the laws of the state.
      (6)   Ability to contract. Each party represents to the other that it has
the legal authority to enter into this agreement. With respect to the subject
matter of this agreement, each party shall duly authorize and execute any
additional agreements, documents, instruments, amendments and certifications
reasonably necessary and appropriate to maintain compliance with any applicable
law.
      (7)   Entire agreement. This agreement, including any attachments or
amendments, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties concerning the
subject matter of the agreement. Modifications and waivers must be in writing
and signed by authorized representatives of the parties.
      (8)   Term. This agreement shall become effective when executed by all
parties and shall continue in full force and effect until terminated by one of
the parties. Either party may terminate this agreement upon 30 days’ prior
written notice to the other party.
      (9)   Multiple counterparts. This agreement may be executed in one or
more counterparts, all of which shall be considered to be one and the same
agreement, binding on all parties hereto, notwithstanding that all parties are
not signatories to the same counterpart. Further, duplicated signatures,
signatures transmitted via facsimile or signatures contained in a portable
document format (PDF) document shall be deemed original for all purposes.
      (10)   Amendments. This agreement may be amended in writing from time to
time by mutual consent of the parties. All amendments to this agreement must be
in writing and fully executed by the parties.
      (11)   Severability clause. If any provision of this agreement is found
to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this agreement.
      (12)   Notices. Any and all notices required to be delivered hereunder
shall be deemed delivered when and if personally delivered, or mailed by
registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid (or
sent by a recognized overnight courier service with instructions and payment
for delivery on the next business day) to the parties as set forth below:
         (1)   If to CMS:
 
Department of Central Management Services
1924 S. 10-1/2 Street
Springfield, IL 62703
Attention: Jay Neposchlan
Phone: (217) 558-3366
Email: Jay.Neposchlan@illinois.gov
 
         (2)   If to account holder:
 
Jersey County Clerk
P.O. Box 216
200 N. Lafayette St.
Jerseyville, IL 62052
(618)-498-5571 x115
 
      (13)   Change of information.
         (a)   Any party hereto may change the foregoing name and address of
the designee to whom notice shall be sent by giving written notice of such
change to the other party hereto in the same manner as all other notices are
required to be delivered hereunder.
         (b)   Notice as provided herein does not waive service of summons or
process.
(Agreement passed 3-25-2013)
PROTECTING INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN NONVIOLENT CIVIL RIGHTS DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 33.065 POLICY.
   (A)   It is the policy of the county that excessive force by local law
enforcement agencies shall not be used against individuals engaged in lawful
and nonviolent civil rights demonstrations within the county boundaries.
   (B)   It is the policy of county to enforce applicable state and local laws
against the physical barring of an entrance to or exit from a facility or
location which is the subject of nonviolent civil rights demonstrations within
its jurisdiction.
   (C)   The county directs the Police Chief/County Sheriff to implement this
section by amending applicable law enforcement department procedures.
(Res. passed 2-12-2013)
ETHICS
§ 33.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice-
Presidential electors, but does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 3 of
the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on
premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer
or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. The same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the County of Jersey, whether on a full-time
or part-time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The County of Jersey.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative
or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a county
clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; and
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action:
         (a)   By an officer;
         (b)   By an employee; or
         (c)   By the officer or another employee directing that employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With the officer;
         (b)   With an employee; or
         (c)   With the officer or another employee directing that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By the officer; or
         (b)   By an employee; or
         (c)   By the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.081 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the county in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      (1)   As part of that officer or employee’s duties;
      (2)   As a condition of employment; or
      (3)   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this subchapter.
   (E)   No person either:
      (1)   In a position that is subject to recognized merit principles of
public employment; or
      (2)   In a position the salary for which is paid in whole or in part by
federal funds and that is subject to the Federal Standards for a Merit System
of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-in-aid programs, shall be
denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely because he or she is a member
or an officer of a political committee, of a political party, or of a political
organization or club.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.082 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Gift ban. Except as permitted by this subchapter, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined
herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited
source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   Exceptions. Division (A) above is not applicable to the following.
Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
      (3)   Any:
         (a)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
         (b)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancée;
      (7)   (a)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship.
         (b)   In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of
personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the circumstances under which
the gift was offered, such as:
            1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            2.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            3.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
      (8)   (a)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on
a single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are:
            1.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
            2.   Catered.
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, CATERED means food or
refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this subchapter, INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer
or employee from another officer or employee, and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; and
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this subchapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a
gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount
equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, being 26
U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), as now or hereafter amended, renumbered or succeeded.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.083 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the County Board, with the advice and consent of
the County Board, shall designate an ethics advisor for the county. The duties
of the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the county
unless the position has been created as an office by the county.
   (B)   The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the county concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor
shall perform such other duties as may be delegated by the County Board.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2014)
§ 33.090 POLICY.
   (A)   Scope of policy. The purpose of this policy is to direct the
investment activities of all funds under the jurisdiction of the Jersey County
Treasurer. The guidelines will be applicable to all current and future funds
placed under the County Treasurer’s jurisdiction. The Illinois State Statutes
will act as the parameter for all investment decisions. Accountability for the
funds will be subject to regular internal monthly review, monthly reporting and
a yearly audit performed by the county’s designated auditor.
   (B)   Objective. The cash management and investment decisions for the
stewardship of public funds under the Jersey County Treasurer’s jurisdiction
will meet the following objectives, in order of priority:
      (1)   Safety. The security of public funds shall be the primary concern
of the Jersey County Treasurer when considering depositories and investments.
      (2)   Liquidity. To allow availability of funds within the time frame
desired while considering the budgetary constraints of the entrusting entity.
      (3)   Yield. The return on investment will be dependent upon minimizing
the risk of the investment, budgetary constraints, cash flow requirements, and
the legal restrictions on the investment.
   (C)   Guidelines. The stated objectives shall be met by employing the
following guidelines:
      (1)   Employing the “prudent man rule” whereby investment of funds is
based upon “the judgment and care under circumstances then prevailing that
persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence exercised in the management
of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment, considering the
probable safety of their capital, as well as the probable income to be derived
and optimum liquidity required for operations of their local government.”
      (2)   Liquidity will be based on reasonable anticipated fund demands as
instructed by the public entity for whom the funds are being held.
      (3)   All funds shall be deposited in a timely manner to maximize
earnings.
   (D)   Responsibility. According to state statutes, investment of public
funds under the control of the Treasurer will be the direct responsibility of
the Jersey County Treasurer. It will be the responsibility of the Treasurer to
establish a system of control for those involved in the assistance of such
activities.
   (E)   Security control. Only the Treasurer is authorized to establish
financial accounts for the office of the Jersey County Treasurer. Any deposit
accounts above the amount insured by the FDIC will be collateralized. The
account agreements will be audited as part of the yearly county audit by the
county’s designated auditor.
   (F)   Reporting. All investment transactions will be recorded by the
Treasurer or the Treasurer’s staff. If requested, a quarterly report will be
presented to the County Board. This report will list fund balances, investment
activities and all other information deemed pertinent.
   (G)   Eligible investments.
      (1)   Jersey County will limit its investments to those explicitly listed
in the Illinois Compiled Statutes, including the Illinois Trust Local
Government Investment Pools. The diversification of the county’s portfolio,
within the allowed investments, will be the sole responsibility of the County
Treasurer.
      (2)   The Jersey County Treasurer will have the sole responsibility to
select the financial entities that will act as depositories for public funds.
The Treasurer will take necessary measures when selecting financial
institutions. Examples include, but are not limited to: security, size,
location, community relations and any other necessary factors deemed pertinent
in selecting financial institutions.
   (H)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Neither the County Treasurer nor
their staff shall have any personal interest in the investments that the office
has authorized.
   (I)   Bonding. The County Treasurer and office deputies will be bonded at a
rate determined by the County Board.
(Ord. passed 4-11-2023)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which
no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Ethics.
      (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
33.081 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
33.082 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of §§
33.080 through
33.083 to the local enforcement authorities, the State’s Attorney or any other
law enforcement official may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days,
and may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   A violation of §
33.081 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney for the county
by filing in the Circuit Court an information, or sworn complaint, charging
such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of
criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of
the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. A violation of §
33.082 may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the
county, or, if an Ethics Commission has been created, by the Commission through
the designated administrative procedure.
      (5)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
33.081 or
33.082 is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Ord. passed 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Hotel and Motel Tax
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Imposition of tax
   
34.03   Registration
   
34.04   Computation of tax
   
34.05   Fee deadline
   
34.06   Remittance of fees; use of funds
   
34.07   Exemption
   
34.08   Disbursement of funds
 
   
34.99   Penalty
HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The County Board of Jersey County, Illinois.
   OPERATOR. The owner/operator of each hotel and/or motel within the county,
and the person(s) having a right of property operating said hotel and/or motel,
having been issued a license by virtue of governing laws within the cities,
counties and state.
   TREASURER. The Treasurer of Jersey County, Illinois.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1989)
§ 34.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all occupants of each hotel and/or motel
within the county for the use of renting, leasing or letting of rooms in such
hotel and/or motel.
   (B)   The rate of such tax shall be at the rate of 5% of the gross rental
receipts from each rental, leasing or letting.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Each hotel and/or motel located within the boundaries of the county
shall file a certificate of registration within the office of the Treasurer,
whose office is located at 201 West Pearl, Jerseyville, Illinois, 62052.
Registration forms will be available to each hotel and or motel operator
through the office of the Treasurer of the county.
   (B)   It is the duty of the hotel and/or motel operator to update the
certificate of registration form on an annual basis. The final date for filing
and updating of the certificate of registration shall be December 15 of each
given year hereafter following the effective date of this subchapter. Any new
business coming under license to do business as a hotel and/or motel within the
county shall file a certificate of registration no later than 30 days following
the first day of operation as a new hotel and/or motel business.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1989)
§ 34.04 COMPUTATION OF TAX.
   (A)   Each operator shall file an occupancy tax return each and every month
following the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   The return shall contain the total dollar gross receipts received from
room occupancy rentals along with the total amount due and payable to the
county heretofore required by the adoption of this subchapter. Occupancy tax
returns will be available to each hotel and/or motel operator through the
office of the Treasurer of the county. A copy of the occupancy tax return form
is attached hereto and marked Exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified
herein and incorporated by reference.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1989)
§ 34.05 FEE DEADLINE.
   All tax fees due the county shall be due and payable to the county the
fifteenth day of the month immediately following the month of collection.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.06 REMITTANCE OF FEES; USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to this tax, all fees due and owing to the county and
collected by the County Treasurer shall be made payable to the Treasurer,
Jersey County, Illinois. Upon collection of said funds the Treasurer shall
transfer said funds to a separate account or fund established by the County
Board through its Finance Committee. Ten percent of said funds shall be
retained by the county to reimburse the County Treasurer and other county
offices for their administrative expenses in the implementation of this
subchapter. Said amounts can be transferred to the General Fund monthly at the
monthly discretion of the Treasurer and the Finance Committee of the County
Board.
   (B)   The funds remaining in said account, that result from the tax from
each operator, shall remain in this account and be expended to promote tourism;
conventions; expositions; theatrical, sports and cultural activities within the
county or otherwise to attract nonresident overnight visitors to the county.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1989)
§ 34.07 EXEMPTION.
   Gross receipts received by each hotel and/or motel operator from renting,
leasing or letting of rooms from permanent residents at such hotel and/or motel
are hereby exempt from taxation by the county. The renting, leasing or letting
of rooms by a hotel and/or motel which are located within a city, village or
incorporated town that impose a tax under the Municipal Hotel Operators’
Occupation Tax, being 65 ILCS 5/8-3-14, are also exempt from collection
hereunder.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1989)
§ 34.08 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Funds generated from the hotel tax shall be used for the promotion of
tourism in the county through funding marketing activities and promotion of
individual events in the county that highlight the historical, cultural and
agricultural heritage of the county.
   (B)    The purpose of funding of events from the Tourism Fund is to bring
tourists from outside of the county into the county; encourage overnight stays
in motels, hotels and bed and breakfast establishments located in the county;
provide an environment for collateral tourist commercial activity in county
businesses, and perpetuate a climate for the growth in the tourism industry in
the county.
   (C)    Requests for the funding of events shall be submitted to the Tourism
Committee of the County Board through the completion of the Tourism Fund
application form. The information requested in the formal application, or
provided in a comparable format, is supplied for consideration of the grant
request. In order to ensure that adequate study and consideration is given to a
particular event or request for funding, applications for funding shall be made
no later than two months prior to the date of the event for which funding is
sought.
   (D)   No funding will be granted to an event organized to solely benefit or
serve to profit a business, private group of individuals, or a single
individual.
   (E)   No funding will be granted for fundraising events sponsored by
churches, schools or other organizations whose purpose and proceeds are not
dedicated to the goal of encouraging tourism in the county. Grant funding shall
not be issued by the county to an individual or organization that owes any
personal taxes or real estate taxes that are delinquent in payment to the
county. Grant funding shall not be issued to a person or persons or an
organization with unpaid fines or costs assessed by the Circuit Court of the
Seventh Judicial Circuit of Jersey County.
   (F)   (1)   Funding requests for events sponsored by not-for-profit
organizations, shall be accompanied with a copy of the most recent annual and
financial reports submitted to the Illinois Secretary of State’s office. In
addition, a copy of the most recent organization audit or financial statement
is also required as part of the application.
      (2)   In order to determine their purpose and membership, not-for-profit
organizations seeking funding for events shall also submit a copy of their by-
laws and a listing of their current officers and members of their board of
directors.
   (G)   Funding requests for events held in municipalities that collect and
expend funds derived from a hotel tax shall make application to that funding
municipality prior to applying to the county. The results of the funding
application to the municipality shall be attached to the county application.
Any funding received from other tax-collecting entities must be reported on the
county application.
   (H)   Applications for funding from the county shall contain a detailed plan
for the expenditure of the funds. The aforementioned plan shall contain
information related to advertising of the event in print or electronic media.
   (I)   (1)   The purpose of the Tourism Fund is the encouragement of tourism
and publicizing the county as a tourism destination.
      (2)   No expenditures shall be made for construction projects or as a
reimbursement for construction costs, or for costs related to building
maintenance, physical upkeep of grounds, or custodial expenses of facilities
and structures or the purchase of property.
   (J)   In order to ensure that there are adequate funds available for the
development and marketing of tourism in the county, the County Board reserves
the right to approve grant requests at a lesser level than that sought in the
application.
(Res. passed 3-11-2003; Ord. passed 9-13-2022)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A 1% late penalty will be due and payable to the county should any
hotel and/or motel operator fail to file the hotel and motel use tax return by
the end of each month, and an additional 1% each month thereafter. The State’s
Attorney of the county shall enforce said penalties at the request of the
County Treasurer, according to law. The tax herein levied and imposed shall be
paid in addition to all other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the
operator to pay the amount of the tax to the Treasurer as provided by the
Treasurer and or as otherwise provided. Every operator shall keep records of
occupancy and such records shall be made available upon demand by the Treasurer
or a duly authorized agent or employee of the Treasurer or a duly authorized
agent or employee of the county and shall be preserved for a period of three
years. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Treasurer or a
duly authorized deputy of the Treasurer in the enforcement of §§ 34.041 through
34.08. If the State’s Attorney of the county must bring an action of law to
enforce payment of the tax in addition to the penalties herein, the operator
shall be liable for the cost of such collection including reasonable attorney
fees, said fees accruing to the county.
(Ord. passed 1-9-1989)
CHAPTER 35: LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
35.01   County FCC-911 public safety answering point
   
35.02   Probation community service
§ 35.01 COUNTY FCC-911 PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT.
   The County Board designates the office of the County Sheriff as authorized
established P.S.A.P. (public safety answering point) for the purpose of FCC 911
for the county. The Board designates the Sheriff of the county as the 911
Coordinator and Supervisor for this established 911 P.S.A.P. The Sheriff’s
Department dispatch center will receive and handle all calls that are received
on the designated 911 phone, and assure all required emergency or non-emergency
services are dispatched immediately. All incoming calls received at the 911
P.S.A.P. by land line or cellular phone will be answered immediately with
priority service. The County Sheriff’s Department dispatch center is fully
operational 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The County Sheriff’s Department
911 Coordinator will assure all dispatch personnel answering the 911 phone
calls and dispatching the proper agencies to handle each call received. This
section authorizes all area L.E.C.’s (local exchange carriers) to provide 911
translations.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2002)
§ 35.02 PROBATION COMMUNITY SERVICE.
   (A)   PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY SERVICE means uncompensated labor for a not-for-
profit organization or public body whose purpose is to enhance physical, or
mental stability of the offender, environmental quality or the social welfare
and which agrees to accept public or community service from offenders and to
report on the progress of the offender and the public or community service to
the court or to the authorized diversion program that has referred the offender
for public or community service. PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY SERVICE does not include
blood donation or assignment to labor at a blood bank. For the purposes of this
section, BLOOD BANK has the meaning ascribed to the term in § 2-124 of the
Illinois Clinical Laboratory and Blood Bank Act.
   (B)   SITE means a not-for-profit organization, public body, church,
charitable organization or individual agreeing to accept community service from
offenders and to report on the progress of ordered or required public or
community service to the court or to the authorized diversion program that has
referred the offender for public or community service.
   (C)   The county boards of the several counties in this state are authorized
to establish and operate agencies to develop and supervise programs of public
or community service for those persons placed by the court on probation,
conditional discharge or supervision.
   (D)   The programs shall be developed in cooperation with the circuit courts
for the respective counties developing such programs and shall conform with any
law restricting the use of public or community service.
   (E)   Neither the state, any local government, probation department, public
or community service program or site, nor any official, volunteer or employee
thereof acting in the course of their official duties shall be liable for any
injury or loss a person might receive while performing public or community
service as ordered either by the court or by any duly authorized station or
probation adjustment, teen court, community mediation or other administrative
diversion program authorized by the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 for a violation
of a penal statute of this state or a local government ordinance (whether
penal, civil or quasi-criminal) or for a traffic offense; nor shall they be
liable for any tortious acts of any person performing public or community
service, except for willful, wanton misconduct or gross negligence on the part
of such governmental unit, probation department or public or community service
program or site or on the part of the official, volunteer or employee.
   (F)   No person assigned to a public or community service program shall be
considered an employee for any purpose, nor shall the County Board be obligated
to provide any compensation to such person.
(730 ILCS 115/1) (Meeting minutes 9-12-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Probation Community Service Act, see 730 ILCS 115/
CHAPTER 36: COUNTY FEES
Section
Civil Fees and Criminal and Traffic Assessments to be Charged by the Clerk of
the Circuit Court
   
36.001   Criminal, traffic and civil fees in Circuit Court
Building Fees
   
36.015   Building permit fees
   
36.016   Commercial solar energy systems
   
36.017   Storm water management development
   
36.018   Subdivision fees
   
36.019   Floodplain fees
   
36.020   Board of Appeals fees
   
36.021   Cell tower installation fees
   
36.022   County Code Administrator inspection fee
   
36.023   Wind energy conversion system
County Recorder of Deeds Fees
   
36.035   Fees
County Clerk Fees
   
36.050   Fees
Sale in Error Fee
   
36.065   Fee
Regulating Nuisances
   
36.080   Purpose
   
36.081   Definitions
   
36.082   Nuisance violations with fines defined
   
36.083   Abatement procedures
   
36.084   Validity
Regulating Residential and Commercial Construction
   
36.095   Purpose
   
36.096   Definitions
   
36.097   Residential, commercial or other structural construction regulations
defined
   
36.098   Floodplain inspections and occupancy permits
   
36.099   Jurisdiction
Substance Abuse Prevention Services
   
36.110   Fine
County Law Enforcement Fees
   
36.125   Purpose
   
36.126   Traffic offenses defined
   
36.127   Minor offenses defined
Sheriff’s Fees
   
36.140   Fees
   
36.141   Civil process fees
 
   
36.999   Penalty
CIVIL FEES AND CRIMINAL AND TRAFFIC ASSESSMENTS TO BE CHARGED BY THE CLERK OF
THE CIRCUIT COURT
§ 36.001 CRIMINAL, TRAFFIC AND CIVIL FEES IN CIRCUIT COURT.
   (A)   Civil fees and criminal assessments shall meet the requirements of
Section 27.1b of the Clerks of Courts Act, being 705 ILCS 105/27.1b, and the
Criminal and Traffic Assessment Act, being 705 ILCS 105/135 et seq.
   (B)   Fees in civil matters shall be assessed and distributed as set forth
herein, in compliance with Section 27.1b of the Clerks of Courts Act, being 705
ILCS 105/27.1b.
   (C)   The fees for filing a complaint, petition or other pleading initiating
a civil action shall be as set forth in the schedules below in accordance with
case categories established by the State Supreme Court:
      (1)   Schedule 1. $316 to be divided as follows:
         (a)   $45 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
deposited as follows:
            1.   Court Automation Fund: $20;
            2.   Court Document Storage Fund: $20; and
            3.   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $5.
         (b)   $11 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and deposited as
follows:
            1.   Access to Justice Fund: $2; and
            2.   Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9.
         (c)   $260 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and deposited as
follows:
            1.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $100;
            2.   Court System Fund: $100;
            3.   Judicial Security Fund: $50; and
            4.   Law Library Fund: $10.
      (2)   Schedule 2. $266 to be divided as follows:
         (a)   $45 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
deposited as follows:
            1.   Court Automation Fund: $20;
            2.   Court Document Storage Fund: $20; and
            3.   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $5.
         (b)   $11 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
            1.   Access to Justice Fund: $2; and
            2.   Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9.
         (c)   $210 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
            1.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $50;
            2.   Court System Fund: $100;
            3.   Judicial Security Fund: $50; and
            4.   Law Library Fund: $10.
      (3)   Schedule 3. $99 to be divided as follows:
         (a)   $22 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
deposited as follows:
            1.   Court Automation Fund: $10;
            2.   Court Document Storage Fund: $10; and
            3.   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $2.
         (b)   $11 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
            1.   Access to Justice Fund: $2; and
            2.   Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9.
         (c)   $66 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
            1.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $26;
            2.   Court System Fund: $15;
            3.   Judicial Security Fund: $15; and
            4.   Law Library Fund: $10.
      (4)   Schedule 4. $0.
   (D)   The fees for filing an appearance in a civil action shall be as set
forth in the schedules below in accordance with case categories established by
the State Supreme Court:
      (1)   Schedule 1. $191 to be divided as follows:
         (a)   $45 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
distributed as follows:
            1.   Court Automation Fund: $20;
            2.   Court Document Storage Fund: $20; and
            3.   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $5.
         (b)   $11 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
            1.   Access to Justice Fund: $2; and
            2.   Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9.
         (c)   $135 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
            1.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $55;
            2.   Court System Fund: $35;
            3.   Judicial Security Fund: $35; and
            4.   Law Library Fund: $10.
      (2)   Schedule 2. $119 to be divided as follows:
         (a)   $10 to be retained by the Clerk of the Circuit Court and
distributed as follows:
            1.   Court Automation Fund: $5;
            2.   Court Document Storage Fund: $5; and
            3.   Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund: $0.
         (b)   $9 to be remitted to the State Treasurer and distributed as
follows: Supreme Court Special Purposes Fund: $9; and
         (c)   $100 to be remitted to the County Treasurer and distributed as
follows:
            1.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $46;
            2.   Court System Fund: $22;
            3.   Judicial Security Fund: $22; and
            4.   Law Library Fund: $10.
      (3)   Schedule 3. $0
   (E)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, the following miscellaneous
fees are to be deposited in the County General Fund to be used for purposes
related to the operation of the court system in the county.
      (1)   Miscellaneous fees.
         (a)   Alias summons or citation: $5;
         (b)   Jury services: $212.50;
         (c)   Change of venue: $40;
         (d)   Petition to vacate or modify:
            1.   If filed within 30 days: $50;
            2.   If filed after 30 days: $75; and
            3.   Notice sent to Secretary of State: $40.
         (e)   Appeals preparation:
            1.   If record is 100 pages or less: $50;
            2.   If record is between 100 and 200 pages: $100; and
            3.   If record is 200 pages or more: additional fee of $0.25 per
page.
         (f)   Garnishment, wage deduction and citation proceedings:
            1.   Amount in controversy $1,000 or less: $15;
            2.   Amount in controversy greater than $1,000 and not more than
$5,000: $30; and
            3.   Amount in controversy greater than $5,000: $50.
         (g)   Collections:
            1.   All collections (except state and county maintenance and child
support cases): 2.5% of the amount collected and turned over;
            2.   In child support and maintenance cases: $36 annually to be
deposited in the Child Support Maintenance Fund;
            3.   Certifications to Secretary of State pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/7-
703, the Family Financial Responsibility Law: $5; and
            4.   In proceedings to foreclose a delinquent real estate tax lien,
the State’s Attorney shall receive a fee of 10% of the total amount realized
from the sale of real estate sold in the proceedings.
         (h)   Mailing: $10 plus the cost of postage;
         (i)   For each certified copy of a judgment, following the first copy:
$10;
         (j)   Certification, authentication and reproduction:
            1.   Each certification or authentication for taking acknowledgment
of a deed or other instrument in writing with the seal of office: $6; and
            2.   Reproduction of any document contained in the Clerk’s files:
               a.   $2 for the first page;
               b.   $0.50 per page for the next 19 pages; and
               c.   $0.25 per page for all additional pages.
         (k)   For each record search, within a division or municipal district:
$6 for each year searched;
         (l)   For each page of hard copy print output, when case records are
maintained on an automated medium: $6;
         (m)   Performing a marriage in court: $10;
         (n)   For filing each deed of voluntary assignment: $20; for recording
a deed of voluntary assignment: $0.50 for each 100 words;
         (o)   Expungement petition: $60 and an additional fee of $4 for each
certified copy of an order to expunge arrest records;
         (p)   Probate filings:
            1.   For each account (other than one final account) filed in the
estate of a decedent or ward: $25; and
            2.   Filing a claim:
               a.   Amount claimed greater than $150 and not more than $500:
$25;
               b.   Amount claimed greater than $500 and not more than $10,000:
$40; and
               c.   Amount claimed greater than $10,000: $60.
            3.   For filing a claim, petition or supplemental proceeding based
upon an action seeking equitable relief: $60;
            4.   For a jury demand: $137.50;
            5.   For each certified copy of letters of office, of court orders
or other certifications: $2 per page; and
            6.   For each exemplification: $2 plus the fee for certification.
         (q)   For correction of the case number, case title or attorney
computer identification number, if required by rule of court, on any document
filed in the Clerk’s office: $25.
      (2)   Unpaid fees.
         (a)   Unless a court-ordered payment schedule is implemented or the
fee requirements of this section are waived by court order, the Clerk is
authorized to add to any unpaid fees and costs a delinquency amount equal to
15% of the unpaid fees that remain unpaid after 90 days.
         (b)   Delinquency amounts collected pursuant to this provision shall
be deposited into the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund to
defray additional administrative costs incurred by the Clerk in collecting
unpaid fees and costs.
   (F)   Assessments shall be imposed in criminal, traffic, conservation and
non-traffic matters in accordance with the schedules set forth in the Criminal
and Traffic Assessment Act, 705 ILCS 135/1-5 et seq., and shall be distributed
as set forth herein.
      (1)   Schedule 1. Generic felony offenses. The Clerk shall collect $549
and remit as follows:
         (a)   $354 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $255 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $85;
               b.   Court System Fund: $60;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $50;
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $55; and
               e.   CASA Fund: $5.
            5.   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
            6.   $4 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
            7.   $20 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund; and
            8.   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund.
         (b)   $195 to the State Treasurer.
      (2)   Schedule 2. Felony DUI offenses. The Clerk shall collect $1,709 and
remit as follows:
         (a)   $399 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $300 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $100;
               b.   Court System Fund: $85;
               c.   Judicial Security: $55;
               d.   State’s Attorney: $55; and
               e.   CASA Fund: $5.
            5.   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
            6.   $4 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
            7.   $20 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund; and
            8.   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund.
         (b)   $1,110 to the State Treasurer. $200 to the treasurer of the unit
of local government of the arresting agency.
      (3)   Schedule 3. Felony drug offenses. The Clerk shall collect $2,215
and remit as follows:
         (a)   $355 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund; and
            4.   $255 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $85;
               b.   Court System Fund: $60;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $50;
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $55;
               e.   CASA Fund: $5.
               f.   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
               g.   $4 State’s Attorneys Records Automation Fund;
               h.   $20 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund; and
               i.   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund.
         (b)   $1,861 to the State Treasurer.
      (4)   Schedule 4. Felony sex offenses. The Clerk shall collect $1,314 and
remit as follows:
         (a)   $354 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $255 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $85;
               b.   Court System Fund: $60;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $50;
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $55; and
               e.   CASA Fund: $5.
            5.   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
            6.   $4 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
            7.   $20 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund; and
            8.   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund.
         (b)   $960 to the State Treasurer.
      (5)   Schedule 5. Generic misdemeanor offenses. The Clerk shall collect
$439 and remit as follows:
         (a)   $282 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
            5.   $185 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $55;
               b.   Court System Fund: $50;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $50;
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $25; and
               e.   CASA Fund: $5.
            6.   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
            7.   $4 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
            8.   $10 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund; and
            9.   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund.
         (b)   $155 to the State Treasurer; and
         (c)   $2 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency.
      (6)   Schedule 6. Misdemeanor DUI offenses. The Clerk shall collect
$1,381 and remit as follows:
         (a)   $322 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
            5.   $225 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $85;
               b.   Court System Fund: $55;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $50;
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $30; and
               e.   CASA Fund: $5.
            6.   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
            7.   $4 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
            8.   $10 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund; and
            9.   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund.
         (b)   $707 to the State Treasurer; and
         (c)   $352 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency.
      (7)   Schedule 7. Misdemeanor drug offenses. The Clerk shall collect $905
and remit as follows:
         (a)   $282 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
            5.   $185 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $55;
               b.   Court System Fund: $50;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $50;
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $25; and
               e.   CASA Fund: $5.
            6.   $4 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
            7.   $10 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund;
            8.   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund; and
            9.   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund.
         (b)   $621 to the State Treasurer; and
         (c)   $2 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency.
      (8)   Schedule 8. Misdemeanor sex offenses. The Clerk shall collect
$1,184 and remit as follows:
         (a)   $282 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund;
            5.   $185 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $55;
               b.   Court System Fund: $50;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $50;
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $25; and
         e.   CASA Fund: $5.
            6.   $10 to the Child Advocacy Center Fund;
            7.   $4 to the State’s Attorney Records Automation Fund;
            8.   $10 to the County Jail Medical Costs Fund; and
            9.   $20 to the Probation and Court Services Fund.
         (b)   $900 to the State Treasurer; and
         (c)   $2 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency.
      (9)   Schedule 9. Major traffic offenses. The Clerk shall collect $325
and remit as follows:
         (a)   $203 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund; and
            5.   $150 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $30;
               b.   Court System Fund: $30;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $55;
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $25; and
               e.   CASA Fund: $10.
         (b)   $97 to the State Treasurer; and
         (c)   $25 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency.
      (10)   Schedule 10. Minor traffic offenses. The Clerk shall collect $226
and remit as follows:
         (a)   $168 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund; and
            5.   $115 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $35;
               b.   Court System Fund: $25;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $30; and
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $25.
         (b)   $46 to the State Treasurer; and
         (c)   $12 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency.
      (11)   Schedule 10.5. Truck weight and load offenses. The Clerk shall
collect $260 and remit as follows:
            1.   $168 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
               a.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
               b.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
               c.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
               d.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund; and
               e.   $115 to the County General Fund to be distributed as
follows:
                  i.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $35;
                  ii.   Court System Fund: $25;
                  iii.   Judicial Security Fund: $30; and
                  iv.   State’s Attorney Fund: $25.
            2.   $92 to the State Treasurer.
      (12)   Schedule 11. Conservation offenses. The Clerk shall collect $195
and remit as follows:
         (a)   $168 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund; and
            5.   $115 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $40;
               b.   Court System Fund: $25;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $25; and
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $25.
         (b)   $25 to the State Treasurer; and
         (c)   $2 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency.
      (13)   Schedule 12. Dispositions under supreme court rule 529 (no court
appearance required traffic offenses). The Clerk shall collect $164 and remit
as follows:
         (a)   $100 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund; and
            5.   $47 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $32;
               b.   Court System Fund: $5;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $5; and
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $5.
         (b)   $14 to the State Treasurer; and
         (c)   $50 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency
      (14)   Schedule 13. Petty offense, business offense or non-traffic
ordinance violation. The Clerk shall collect $100 and remit as follows:
         (a)   $75 to the County Treasurer, who shall deposit the money as
follows:
            1.   $20 to the Court Automation Fund;
            2.   $20 to the Court Document Storage Fund;
            3.   $5 to the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative
Fund;
            4.   $8 to the Circuit Court Clerk Electronic Citation Fund; and
            5.   $22 to the County General Fund to be distributed as follows:
               a.   Circuit Clerk Filing Cost: $10;
               b.   Court System Fund: $5;
               c.   Judicial Security Fund: $5; and
               d.   State’s Attorney Fund: $2.
         (b)   $25 to the treasurer of the unit of local government of the
arresting agency.
   (G)   (1)   Unless a court ordered payment schedule is implemented or the
assessment requirements of this section are waived by court order, the Clerk is
authorized to add to any unpaid assessments a delinquency amount equal to 15%
of the unpaid assessments that remain unpaid after 90 days.
      (2)   Delinquency amounts collected pursuant to this provision shall be
deposited into the Circuit Court Clerk Operation and Administrative Fund to
defray additional administrative costs incurred by the Clerk in collecting
unpaid assessments.
(Res. 2019-, passed 5-14-2019)
BUILDING FEES
§ 36.015 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
  Min. Cost Cost per Sq. Ft.
                                                                          Cost
                                                                   Min.   per
                                                                   Cost   Sq.
                                                                          Ft.
    Limited permits (100 sq. ft. and less than 1,250 sq. ft.)      $50
1.     Accessory buildings, pole barns, decks (over 25 sq. ft.)
    (plus storm water and occupancy permit fees)
2.  Demolition permits                                             $50
                                                                          $20.57
    Limited permits (over 1,250 sq. ft.)                           $50    x 1.06
3.                                                                        x
                                                                          0.002
       Accessory buildings, pole barns
                                                                          $50 x
4.  Manufactured home permits                                      $50    1.06 x
                                                                          0.003
    Residential permits (180 days + 90-day extension)              $100
                                                                          $65.73
       New construction (living area minimum 400 sq. ft.)              x 1.06
                                                                          x
                                                                          0.002
                                                                          $17.07
       Attached garage                                                 x 1.06
                                                                          x
                                                                          0.002
                                                                          $20.57
       Unattached garage                                               x 1.06
5.                                                                        x
                                                                          0.002
                                                                          $12.23
       Unfinished basement                                             x 1.06
                                                                          x
                                                                          0.002
                                                                          $18.80
       Finished basement                                               x 1.06
                                                                          x
                                                                          0.002
                                                                   half the cost
       *2nd 90-day extension                                    of original
                                                                   permit fee
                                                                          cost x
    Commercial permits (180 days + 90-day extension)               $100   1.06 x
6.                                                                        0.003
       New construction, commercial development, additions
       *extension fee to be determined on project type
7.  Certificate of occupancy (residential and commercial)          $20
8.  Temporary occupancy permit (60 days)                           $100
    Plan review fee
9.     Residential plan review                                  $50
       Commercial plan review                                   $100
    Signs and billboards                                                   
                                                                   $30 for first
                                                                   30 sq. ft.
       Signs less than 249 sq. ft.                              and $0.30 for
                                                                   each sq. ft.
                                                                   thereafter
10.                                                                $800
                                                                   (each
       Billboard 250 sq. ft.—600 sq. ft.                      sign
                                                                   on
                                                                   same
                                                                   pole)
       Annual renewal permit fee for single side sign           $125
       Annual renewal permit fee for double side sign           $250
                                                                   sq. ft. x
    Storm water management fee                                     0.04
                                                                   residential
11.    Assessed on all buildings placed on permeable ground     sq. ft. 0.04
                                                                   mobile home
                                                                   project cost
                                                                  x 0.002
                                                                   commercial
12. Variance application fee                                       $2,000
13. Additional inspections                                         $100
 
(Res. passed 4-9-2019; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord.
revised 8-8-2023)
§ 36.016 COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
 
Building permit fee/commercial rate project cost x 1.06 x 0.003
Special use application fee         $125,000
 
(Res. passed 4-9-2019; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord.
revised 8-8-2023)
§ 36.017 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT.
 
Disturbance of one acre or more of full plan                 $200
Disturbance of 10,000 sq. ft. soil and erosion plan required no charge
 
(Res. passed 4-9-2019; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord.
revised 8-8-2023)
§ 36.018 SUBDIVISION FEES.
 
Application fee (preliminary and final plats) $600 $25 per lot
Review and inspections of improvement plans   1% of the estimated cost
 
(Res. passed 4-9-2019; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord.
revised 8-8-2023)
§ 36.019 FLOODPLAIN FEES.
 
1. Minor development permit                                                      $50
      Improvement to structure, accessory building
   Development permit                                                            $400
2.    Elevation of structure, any human-made change to real estate, dredging,
   filling, grading, paving, excavation, mining, drilling operations or storage
   of equipment or materials
3. Floodplain occupancy permit                                                   $25
      Includes inspection of structure for compliance
4. Variance request fee                                                          $2,000
 
(Res. passed 4-9-2019; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord.
revised 8-8-2023)
§ 36.020 BOARD OF APPEALS FEES.
 
Board of Appeals fee                                    $200
   Does not include floodplain or storm water decisions
 
(Res. passed 4-9-2019; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord.
revised 8-8-2023)
§ 36.021 CELL TOWER INSTALLATION FEES.
 
Cell tower installation permit (equipment   $500 non-refundable application fee
shelter subject to fees)                    $20 per vertical ft.
   Additional antenna on existing structu$200
 
(Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord. revised 8-8-2023)
§ 36.022 COUNTY CODE ADMINISTRATOR INSPECTION FEE.
 
County Code Administrator inspection fee                $50
   Special request or abuse of construction inspections
The county may assess fees for the County Code Administrator’s time, milage
and processing fees.
 
(Res. passed 4-9-2019; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021)
§ 36.023 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM.
 
Building permit fee/commercial rate project cost x 1.06 x 0.003
Special use application fee         $125,000
 
(Ord. revised 8-8-2023)
COUNTY RECORDER OF DEEDS FEES
§ 36.035 FEES.
 
Recorded Document     Fee
Standard land records $79
Non-standard          $106
Plat/condo            $106
Non-land/UCC records  $70
 
(Res. passed 9-11-2018)
COUNTY CLERK FEES
§ 36.050 FEES.
Certified Copy of Document Fee
Certified Copy of Document          Fee
Assumed name certificate            $20
Assumed name - change               $20
Birth record (1st copy)             $16
Birth record (additional copies)    $8
Death record (1st copy)             $20
Death record (additional copies)    $12
Marriage license                    $50
Marriage record (1st copy)          $16
Marriage record (additional copies) $8
Notary certificate: by mail         $15
Notary certificate: in person       $15
Tax redemption fee                  $59
 
(Res. passed 9-11-2018)
SALE IN ERROR FEE
§ 36.065 FEE.
   A sale in error fee of $60 is established to be paid by the purchaser of any
property of a sale held under 35 ILCS 200/21-330.
(Res. passed 8-14-2018)
REGULATING NUISANCES
§ 36.080 PURPOSE.
   The following acts, conduct and conditions in this subchapter are hereby
declared and defined to be nuisances, and when committed, performed or
permitted to exist by any person, within the jurisdiction of the county, are
hereby declared to be unlawful and prohibited.
(Ord. passed 12-12-2017)
§ 36.081 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle, as that term is defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-217,
whether situated upon private, public or municipal property, which, for a
period of seven consecutive days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been
removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered,
damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power, or any vehicle, whether situated upon private,
public or municipal property, that is not currently registered or licensed by
the Illinois Secretary of State or similar licensing authority of another
state.
   ANIMAL. Cattle, swine, horses, mules, donkeys, sheep, dogs, cats, goats,
rabbits or any other animal, and chickens, turkeys, geese, pigeons, doves,
ducks or other fowl, any reptile including snakes, lizards and turtles.
   COMMON LAW NUISANCES. Any act or offense which is a nuisance according to
the common law of the state, or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the
ordinances of the county. In addition, the County Code Administrator shall be
authorized to abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within
this subchapter, shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable or unlawful
use by a person of property, real or personal, or from his or her own improper,
indecent or unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a
right of another, or of the public, and produces such material annoyance,
inconvenience, discomfort or hurt that the law will presume an actionable
nuisance. Nuisances may be abated which are public or which are both public and
private in nature.
   COUNTY CODE ADMINISTRATOR. The officer appointed by the Board of the county
for the administration and enforcement of the subchapter.
   DEMOLITION. The removal of a structure that is so dilapidated and out of
repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human
habitation or occupancy.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; wastes resulting from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
   HAZARDOUS OR DILAPIDATED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle with a substantial
number of “essential parts”, as defined by 625 ILCS 5/1-118, either damaged,
removed or altered or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of
being driven under its own motor power or which, by its general state of
deterioration, poses a threat to the public’s health, safety and welfare.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance, element, compound, mixture or solution
as defined in 415 ILCS 5/3.215.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste, or combination of wastes, which because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may
cause a hazard to humans or the environment.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of Environmental Health of the County Health
Department.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Any solid waste (including garbage, trash and sanitary
waste in septic tanks) derived from households (including single and multiple
residences, hotels and motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters,
campgrounds, picnic grounds and day-use recreation areas).
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open dump.
(415 ILCS 5/3.300)
   OWNER. The lawful or registered owner of any motor vehicle and the bailee,
if any, of said motor vehicle, or any other person legally entitled to
possession of same.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, state agency or any other legal entity or their
legal representative, agent or assigns.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture
and bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin
cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete,
glass, crockery and other mineral wastes; street rubbish, including, but not
limited to, street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt, and contents of
litter receptacles, but REFUSE does not mean earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial
processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing wastes, boiler
house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
   STANDARD FARMING PRACTICE. The science or occupation in farming of
agricultural practice which is recognized as one in a general usage for the
preparation, growing, harvesting and storing of agronomic commodities, or the
production of farm animals.
   WASTE. Any garbage, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply
treatment plant, or air pollution control facility or other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semi-solid, or contained gaseous material.
   WEEDS. Any plant as defined in Part 220 of the Illinois Noxious Weed Law,
being 505 ILCS 100/ and Ill. Admin. Code Tit. 8, Ch. I, Subch. f, pt. 220, as a
primary or secondary noxious weed, unplanted brush, or any unmanaged grass that
exceeds one foot in height.
(Ord. passed 12-12-2017)
§ 36.082 NUISANCE VIOLATIONS WITH FINES DEFINED.
 Fine
                                                                                   Fine
Abandoned, Dilapidated Buildings and Demolition                                     
   Any structure which has been damaged by fire or other structures that have
become rundown, dilapidated, decayed as to endanger the safety of the public, or   $500
provide harborage for rodents, insects or other like vermin or pests
   To own or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation due to lack of repa$500
or unsanitary conditions
   Failure to comply with a demolition order within the time prescribed, the
County Code Administrator shall cause the structure to be demolished and removed
within designated time period. Cost of demolition and removal fees shall be
charged against the real estate and a lien filed upon the real estate
Abandoned, hazardous vehicles
   To cause a derelict vehicle or other like vehicle of conveyance to remain on
any public or private property, except in state licensed salvage yards. An         $500
abandoned vehicle as defined as that which is not currently licensed and not in    for
mechanical condition for operation. Exception: members of the United States Armed  each
Forces who are stationed on duty outside of the state and did not have the         vehicle
opportunity to make application or renew the license and registration of the
vehicle in a timely manner
Animal Pests
   All diseased animals running at large                                        $500
   To store or maintain any kennel, stable, barn, house, coop or other areas whe$300
pets are kept in a manner which may harbor insects or dangerous to individuals
Animals
   To cause the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or noisome substance to
be collected or deposited in any place under his or her ownership or control to    $300
the prejudice of others
   To throw or deposit any carcass of an animal or other filth in any watercours$300
lake, pond, well or common sewer, street or public highway
Health Hazards
   Any human-made hole, cistern, well or depression on any property which may   $150
endanger the safety of the public
   Any private sewage disposal system that is unsafe, failed or constitutes a   $200
health hazard, unsanitary condition, or is otherwise dangerous to human life
Illegal Dumping, Junk
   To illegally dump abandoned furniture, vehicles, appliances, chemicals, used
tires, demolition debris, pipes, garbage or the like in pastures, streams,         $750
ravines, or along roadsides
   Junk storage: to store, keep, or maintain outside of building debris, household
fixtures and appliances; old iron or metal; used lumber, bricks, blocks or other
building salvage materials; parts; and machinery or equipment not in an operable
condition, where such matter is an actual danger or detriment to life, safety,
health or peaceful enjoyment of the property of surrounding property owners;       $750
provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to a properly licensed
junkyard, land used for agricultural purposes or other permitted outdoor storage
use which is in full compliance with all of the county ordinances and state
regulations
Open Burning
   No person shall place in any container or dump any material which may be likely
to take fire, be set afire or allow the open burning of refuse or any other waste,
construction debris, tires, commercial waste, garbage or conduct any salvage       $500
operation by open burning. Exceptions: landscape waste, cooking and campfires on
private property and public areas where specified, agricultural waste as defined
in 35 Ill. Adm. Code 237.120(a)(1)
   State EPA law and county ordinances prohibit the burning debris of any kind  $1,500
other than yard waste                                                              (via
                                                                                   IEPA)
Waters
   Stagnant water: to permit foul or stagnant water to pond or stand upon any
premises that pose a potential breeding place for mosquitoes. Ponds related to     $500
farming are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter
   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring, river,   $500
stream, pond or lake
Weeds
   Any person who may permit, suffer or allow “weeds”, as herein defined in Part
220 of the Illinois Noxious Weed Law, being 505 ILCS 100/ and Ill. Admin. Code     $250
Tit. 8, Ch. I, Subch. f, pt. 220, upon private or public property
   Any person who may permit the growth of grasses 12 in. or more upon private o$150
public property
 
(Ord. passed 12-12-2017; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord.
revised 8-8-2023)
§ 36.083 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Prior to the opening of a complaint file on a condition of a public
nuisance, a formal complaint must be filed with the County Code Administrator
or the County Health Officer.
   (A)   In matters related to formal complaints of public nuisances,
inspection assignments shall be made by the County Code Administrator or by the
Health Officer.
   (B)   The County Board may demolish, repair or enclose or cause the
demolition, repair or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings or
uncompleted and abandoned buildings with the territory of the county under the
provisions of the Counties Code 55 ILCS 5/5-1121.
   (C)   In matters related to public nuisance complaints, all necessary steps
shall be taken to adequately investigate and seek a mediated resolution of the
situation whereby a reasonable period of time shall be provided to the
respondent party to correct the violation of the regulation. If a condition of
a public nuisance is found to exist, a reasonable period of time of not less
than seven days, or more than 30 days shall be given to the respondent party to
correct the violation of the regulation. The Code Administrator shall have the
authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided the
modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. If,
however, it is determined that the condition of nuisance constitutes an
immediate and serious threat to the public health and safety of the population,
the Code Administrator shall have the authority to issue an immediate abatement
order.
   (D)   If a person notified to abate a nuisance condition shall neglect or
refuse to comply with the requirements of a such a notice within the specified
time, Code Administrator may, at his or her discretion, take the necessary
action to abate the condition through filing of a fine and a report with the
County State’s Attorney for the purpose of enforcement of this subchapter
through the Circuit Court of the county. The cost of any abatement action shall
be collected from the party creating the nuisance, or be added to the taxes on
the property on which the nuisance condition is situated, as well as imposition
of any penalty or fine per 55 ILCS 5/5-41055.
   (E)   If the owner or the individual responsible for the nuisance fails or
neglects to pay the county abatement costs and fines, suit may be instituted
against the owner or individual responsible in the name of the county and
against the owner or individual responsible in any court of competent
jurisdiction to recover the costs of abating the nuisance, together with the
costs of such suit.
(Ord. passed 12-12-2017)
§ 36.084 VALIDITY.
   (A)   Should any section, clause or provision of this subchapter be declared
by the courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this
subchapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
invalid.
   (B)   In any case where a provision of this subchapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety, health or
related code or ordinance, existing on the effective date of this subchapter,
the provision which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and
protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 12-12-2017)
REGULATING RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL CONSTRUCTION
§ 36.095 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is created to hold the property owner, construction
contractor and any sub-contractors liable for failure to notify the County Code
Administrator at the appropriate time regarding inspection of new construction.
(Res. passed 12-12-2017)
§ 36.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. A place for the exchange or buying and selling of merchandise.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any new structure built or any significant addition.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials, including maintenance.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the
jurisdiction of the county that are subject to inundation by the base flood.
      (1)   The FLOODPLAINS of the Macoupin Creek, Mill Creek, Phils Creek,
Piasa Creek, Otter Creek, Illinois and Mississippi Rivers are generally
identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the county prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated April 2, 2009.
      (2)   FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as
identified by the community.
   RESIDENTIAL. The place where one lives; a building used as a home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed.
      (1)   Volunteer labor and materials must be included in this
determination.
      (2)   Damage of less than 50% of the fair market value will be applied to
the repetitive loss calculations.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
(Res. passed 12-12-2017)
§ 36.097 RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL OR OTHER STRUCTURAL CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
DEFINED.
   The following are hereby declared violations of residential and commercial
construction:
   (A)   Failure to obtain a residential permit before starting construction or
the placement of any structure shall result in a $250 fine plus court costs for
each of the property owner, construction contractor and subcontractors;
   (B)   Failure to obtain a commercial permit before starting construction
shall result in a fine of $500 plus court costs for each of the property owner,
construction contractor and sub-contractors; and
   (C)   (1)   Failure to notify the County Code Administrator of the necessity
of an inspection and failure to halt construction until the appropriate
inspections are completed shall result in a fine of $100 plus court costs for
each of the property owner, construction contractor and sub-contractors.
      (2)   Verification of compliance with the Building Code may result in
removal of structural parts for inspection.
(Res. passed 12-12-2017)
§ 36.098 FLOODPLAIN INSPECTIONS AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   (A)   A floodplain development permit is required by the county in addition
to any development requiring state, Corps of Engineers or Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (B)   Any elevation of a structure in the county floodplain shall require a
minimum of four inspections by the County Code Administrator’s Office/Certified
Floodplain Manager as follows:
      (1)   A minimum of four inspections shall be performed during the
elevation process of a structure in the floodplain. A $400 fee shall be paid by
the owner. Each additional inspection shall be at a fee of $100 each;
      (2)   Inspections shall be performed during the posted hours of the
business day of the County Code Administrator/Certified Floodplain Manager.
Inspections performed after hours, weekends or holidays shall result in
additional fee of $100 each;
      (3)   When the reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of
the structure in the floodplain is deemed complete, an occupancy permit shall
be issued by the County Code Administrator/Certified Floodplain Manager. A fee
of $25 shall be charged for the permit;
      (4)   If the structure is occupied without obtaining the required
floodplain permit or the occupancy permit a fine of $150 will be assessed;
      (5)   Failure to notify the County Code Administrator/Certified
Floodplain Manager of a required inspection shall result in a fine of $100;
      (6)   Failure to obtain a floodplain permit for any substantial
improvement or damage will result in a fine of $250;
      (7)   Structures located on leased ground are required to be inspected
prior to the sale to another person(s) and an occupancy permit is issued.
Failure to request an inspection will result in a fine of $150; and
      (8)   Failure to obtain a development permit for any construction or
development within a floodplain will result in a fine of $300.
   (C)   All monies collected from fines and fees under this section shall be
distributed as follows:
      (1)   Seventy percent to be deposited to the Jersey County General Fund;
and
      (2)   Thirty percent to be deposited to the Jersey County Code
Administrator Automation Fund.
(Res. passed 12-12-2017)
§ 36.099 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter is applicable only outside the corporate limits of a city,
village or incorporated town in the county; or where the county has an
intergovernmental agreement in place with another jurisdiction, city, village
or incorporated town.
(Res. passed 12-12-2017)
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION SERVICES
§ 36.110 FINE.
   (A)   Effective November 1, 2017:
      (1)   A fee of $10 will be assessed in the form of additional court costs
to convictions under 720 ILCS 570/401 Manufacture or Delivery, or Possession
with Intent to Manufacture or Deliver, a Controlled Substance, Counterfeit
Substance or Controlled Substance Analog; and
      (2)   A fee of $10 for each individual convicted or placed on court
supervision for driving while under the influence of alcohol, other drug or
drugs, intoxicating compounds or any combination thereof under 625 ILCS 5/11-
501.
   (B)   The monies will be deposited in the County General Fund. The County
Treasurer will distribute monies collected pursuant to the agreed upon method
of the administrator for the Substance Abuse Prevention Services (SAPS).
(Res. eff. 11-1-2017)
COUNTY LAW ENFORCEMENT FEES
§ 36.125 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is created to regulate traffic and minor offenses within the
county.
(Ord. passed 4-13-2010)
§ 36.126 TRAFFIC OFFENSES DEFINED.
   The following are considered traffic offenses within county limits:
   (A)   Speeding. Exceeding the posted speed limit at any given location;
   (B)   Failure to yield. Failing to stop at a stop sign or yield to
pedestrians or other vehicles within the right-of-way;
   (C)   Improper lane usage. Failing to remain with in your lane of traffic or
using a lane that is not properly designated;
   (D)   No valid driver’s license. Failing to provide a valid driver’s license
at the time of stop or not having a valid driver’s license;
   (E)   Registration violations. Any violation of registration on a motor
vehicle; and
   (F)   Seat belt. It is unlawful to drive a motor vehicle without wearing
your safety belt.
(Ord. passed 4-13-2010) Penalty, see §
36.999
§ 36.127 MINOR OFFENSES DEFINED.
   The following are considered minor offenses within the county limits:
   (A)   Possession of cannabis. Possessing less than 30 grams of a substance
containing cannabis;
   (B)   Drug; paraphernalia. Possessing any item used to ingest drugs;
   (C)   Consumption/possession of alcohol by a minor. Any person under the age
of 21 is prohibited from consuming or possessing alcohol;
   (D)   Illegal transportation of alcohol. It is prohibited to transport open
alcohol in a motor vehicle;
   (E)   Disorderly conduct. It is prohibited to act in a manner that alarms
and disturbs another;
   (F)   Intoxicated pedestrian. It is unlawful to walk in a public place while
intoxicated;
   (G)   Deceptive practice. It is unlawful to write a check with the knowledge
that there are insufficient funds to cover said check;
   (H)   Curfew violations. It is unlawful for a person under the age of 17 to
be in public after the hours of 11:00 p.m.; and
   (I)   Failure to possess valid insurance card. It is unlawful to fail to
carry a valid insurance card in a motor vehicle.
(Ord. passed 4-13-2010) Penalty, see §
36.999
SHERIFF’S FEES
§ 36.140 FEES.
   The County Sheriff’s Department is authorized to charge the following for
its services effective February 1, 2007.
Background checks                      $6 for background check
Copies of reports
   Accident and offense reports     $5 per copy
   Photos, if available             $5 per photo
   Unless photo is 8.5 in. X 11 in. $10 per photo
Fingerprinting                         $10 per fingerprinting
Medical treatment request
   Prisoners who request additional
treatment
      Dentist                    $15
      House doctor               $15
      Prescriptions              $3
Processing fee
   For prisoners posting bond       $25 fee added to bond amount
Sex offender registration              First time: $20 fee with an annual fee
                                       of $10
 
(Ord. passed 2-20-2007)
§ 36.141 CIVIL PROCESS FEES.
County Sheriff’s Department Process Fees
County Sheriff’s Department Process Fees
Brighton             $60
Delhi                $50
Dow                  $50
East Hardin          $65
Eldred (R.R.)        $70
Elsah                $65
Fidelity             $55
Fieldon              $50
Godfrey (R.R.)       $60
Grafton              $60
Jerseyville          $45
Jerseyville (R.R.)   $50
Kane                 $45
Medora               $65
Nutwood              $55
Eviction             $100
Service of a warrant $45
All fees must be paid in advance
 
   (A)   If papers come in with a non-current address or no address, an
additional $10 is charged along with the normal fee for process.
   (B)   If more than one summons or more than one defendant, $15 is charged
along with the normal fee for process. Example: a defendant served in Brighton.
The fee is $60. The second defendant also at the same address, the fee is $15
for the second paper.
(Ord. passed 10-11-2005; Ord. passed 9-13-2022)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any portion of the
International Property Code Maintenance or §§
36.015 through
36.023 shall, upon conviction in the County Circuit Court, be subject to a fine
of no less than $50 and up to $750 per day for each violation. Each day that
such violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
 
Fines
Failure to notify the Code Administrator of a required $100 plus court costs
inspection
Failure to obtain a commercial permit prior to         $500 plus court costs
construction
Failure to obtain a residential permit prior to        $250 plus court costs
construction
 
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any portion of §§
36.080 through
36.084 shall, upon conviction in the County Circuit Court, be subject to a fine
of up to $750 for each violation. Each day that such violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense. This county may also seek injunctive relief for
an order compelling abatement of the violation. In addition for fines, the
county may assess applicable fees for the Code Administrator or Environmental
Health Officer’s time, mileage and processing fees. Fees shall not exceed $500
for each violation under the code.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys or willfully
fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
36.080 through
36.084 shall be subject to a fine of no less than $50 up to $750 for each
violation. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (3)   The Board of the county may exercise their powers to recover the
costs incurred of the demolition, repair, enclosure or removal of dangerous and
unsafe structures or uncompleted and abandoned mobile homes, manufactured homes
and other structures by placing a lien on the real estate. Court costs shall be
included in the lien and said lien shall be recorded with the County Recorder
of Deeds.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation, who violates, disobeys or willfully
fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
36.095 through
36.099 shall be subject to a fine of no less than $50 up to $750 for each
violation. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense. Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home or any other structure
from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy or
have been cited as a nuisance shall be fined $500. Each day that such violation
exists shall be considered a separate offense. Each day any willful violation
of any provision of §§
36.095 through
36.099 shall constitute a separate offense for purposes of fines and costs.
   (E)   The following is the set fee schedule for said violations of §§
36.126 and
36.127:
Consumption/possession of alcohol by minor          $300*
Curfew violations                                   $200*
Deceptive practice                                  $200*
Disorderly conduct                                  $300*
Drug paraphernalia                                  $500**
Fail to yield                                       $200*
Failure to possess valid insurance card             $20*
Failure to reduce speed (single car accidents only) $200*
Illegal transportation of alcohol                   $300*
Improper lane usage (single car accidents only)     $200*
Intoxicated pedestrians                             $200*
No valid driver’s license                         $200*
Possession of cannabis (less than 30 grams)         $400**
Registration violations                             $200*
Seat belt                                           $55*
Speeding                                            $200*
*Fines must be paid at first appearance date
**Fines must be paid within 30 days of first appearance date
 
(Ord. passed 4-13-2010; Res. passed 12-12-2017; Res. passed 4-9-2019; Ord.
revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021; Ord. revised 8-8-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
      
51.   DRINKING WATER
CHAPTER 50: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Permits
   
50.02   Adoption by reference
   
50.03   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or extend
individual sewage disposal systems within the county unless he or she holds a
valid permit issued by the County Health Department. Such permit and
application for a permit shall be made on forms provided by the Health
Department.
   (B)   A permit shall only be issued to a private sewage disposal
installation contractor licensed by the state or by the County Health
Department or to a homeowner installing his or her own private sewage disposal
system. To have a county license, the licensee must have passed a county test
approved by the state or hold a valid a state license.
   (B)   There shall be a fee charged for a construction permit and for a
county private sewage disposal system contractor license. The fee schedule
shall be as approved by the Board of Health.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   In addition to those provisions set forth in §
50.01 and
50.03, this chapter shall be interpreted and enforced in accordance with
provisions set forth in the unabridged form of the current Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/, and Ill. Admin Code Tit. 77, Ch. I,
Subch. R, pt. 905, Private Sewage Disposal, and any subsequent amendments or
revisions thereto, three copies of which shall be on file in the office of the
County Clerk, which publication is incorporated herein and adopted by reference
as part of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1986)
§ 50.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Private sewage disposal systems constructed prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall comply with any provisions of this chapter deemed
necessary by the Health Department.
   (B)   A private sewage disposal system installed either by a homeowner or by
a licensed contractor shall not be covered or placed in operation until the
installation shall have been inspected and written approval issued by the
Health Department.
   (C)   If an inspection by the Health Department determines that any portion
of the installed system has been covered which will prevent the same from being
readily viewed, the Health Department may give 15 days’ notice in writing to
the property owner to uncover the backfilled or covered portions of the system.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1986)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each day the violation exists constitutes a separate offense. The
State’s Attorney of the county shall bring such actions in the name of the
people of the state or may bring action for an injunction to restrain such
violation or to enjoin the operation of any such establishment causing such
violation.
(Ord. passed 11-10-1986)
CHAPTER 51: DRINKING WATER
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Prohibitions
   
51.04   Waiver, exceptions and certification of minimal hazard
   
51.05   Exclusion
   
51.06   Notice
   
51.07   Enforcement
 
   
51.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Setback area descriptions
   
Appendix B: Additional definitions
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred upon counties by 55 ILCS 5/5-15001 et
seq. (Planning); 55 ILCS 5/5-1041 et seq. (Plats); 55 ILCS 5/5-15016
(Groundwater Ordinances); counties and municipalities, in addition to the
above, by 50 ILCS 805/1 et seq. (Local Land Resource Management Planning); 415
ILCS 55 et seq. (Groundwater Protection); 415 ILCS Tit. I; 415 ILCS 5/2(a)(iv);
and 415 ILCS 5/4(g), (m), (r), (t), and (x) (Environmental Protection Act); 415
ILCS 5/14 et seq. (Water Supplies); 415 ILCS 30/1 et seq. (Water Well
Construction); and in the interest of securing the public health, safety and
welfare; to preserve the quality and quantity of groundwater resources in order
to assure a safe and adequate water supply for present and future generations;
and to preserve groundwater resources currently in use and those aquifers
having a potential for future use as a public water supply, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply to all properties located within the minimum setback
area established under this chapter, and the maximum setback area established
under the chapter. The county is authorized by law to prevent, abate or punish
any pollution or injury to a public water supply.
(Ord. passed - -1995)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Except as stated in this chapter, and unless a different meaning of a
word or term is clear from the context, the definition of words or terms used
in this chapter shall be the same as those used in the Act and the Illinois
Groundwater Protection Act.
      ACT. The Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/1.
      AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      APPENDIX A. The map which is adopted and incorporated as a part of this
chapter which established overlay areas in addition to other ordinances of the
county in which uses may be additionally restricted by this chapter.
      MAXIMUM SETBACK AREA. The area around a community water supply well,
including any minimum setback area, established under 415 ILCS 5/14.3 of the
Act and this chapter, and described in Appendix A.
      MINIMUM SETBACK AREA. The area around a community water supply well
established under 415 ILCS 5/14.1 through 14.2 of the Act and this chapter, and
described in Appendix A.
      PRIMARY, SECONDARY AND ROUTE SOURCES. Those new potential uses and
activities identified and listed by the local government, Illinois Pollution
Control Board or the Agency and hereby incorporated by reference in Appendix B.
   (C)   The references to the Environmental Protection Act, the Illinois
Groundwater Protection Act or other statutes of the state includes their
present form, and as hereinafter amended.
(Ord. passed - -1995)
§ 51.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
51.04 or
51.05, no person shall place a new potential primary source, new potential
secondary source or new potential route within the minimum setback area.
   (B)   Except as provided in §§
51.04 or
51.05, no person shall place a new potential primary source within the maximum
setback area.
   (C)   Except as provided in §§
51.04 or
51.05, no person shall alter or change an existing primary source, secondary
source or potential route in a manner that would be prohibited by a new source
or route.
(Ord. passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 WAIVER, EXCEPTIONS AND CERTIFICATION OF MINIMAL HAZARD.
   (A)   If, pursuant to the Act, the owner of a new potential primary source,
new potential secondary source or a new potential route is granted a waiver by
the Agency or an exception by the State Pollution Control Board (other than
landfilling or land treating), such owner shall be deemed to have a waiver or
exception to the same extent from §
51.03(A).
   (B)   If, pursuant to the Act, the owner of a new potential primary source,
new potential secondary source or new potential route is issued a certificate
of minimal hazard by the Agency, such owner shall not be subject to §
51.03(A) to the same extent that such owner is not subject to the Act.
   (C)   Any action by the Agency or the State Pollution Control Board pursuant
to this section shall not be final until the county has had at least 30 days’
notice of such proposed action and has had the opportunity to present evidence
concerning its interest.
(Ord. passed - -1995)
§ 51.05 EXCLUSION.
   (A)   Section
51.03(A) shall not apply to new common sources of sanitary pollution as
specified pursuant to 415 ILCS 5/17 of the Act and the regulations adopted
thereunder by the Agency.
   (B)   However, no such common sources may be located within the applicable
maximum distances from a community water supply well specified in
Appendix A.
(Ord. passed - -1995)
§ 51.06 NOTICE.
   The County Board finds that proper notice and an opportunity for comment has
been given to the public and to all interested parties prior to the adoption of
the minimum and maximum setback areas described herein, and prior to the
adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1995)
§ 51.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter may be enforced by the state, its agents and designers, and
shall be subject to the penalties, sanctions and remedies provided by the laws
of the state.
(Ord. passed - -1995)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties, sanctions and remedies described in this
chapter, the county hereby declares that any violation of this chapter is a
threat to its public water supply and constitutes a public nuisance. The county
shall be empowered to punish, abate or remedy such nuisances as otherwise
provided by law.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties, sanctions and remedies described in this
chapter, the placement of new potential primary source, new potential secondary
source or new potential route within the minimum setback area in violation of §
51.03(A) in unlawful, and such person shall be liable to the county for a fine
of $500 per day for each day such placement continues.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties, sanctions and remedies described in this
chapter, the placement of new potential primary source within the maximum
setback area in violation of §
51.03(B) is unlawful, and such person shall be liable to the county for a fine
of $500 per day for each day such placement continues.
(Ord. passed - -1995)
APPENDIX A: SETBACK AREA DESCRIPTIONS
   (A)   Minimum setback area. All that area lying within 400 feet of the three
water supply wells, the approximate location thereof being described as
follows:
      (1)   Well #1: 2,200 feet south and 2,000 feet west of the northeast
corner of Section 5, Township 7 North, Range 13 West, Jersey County, Illinois,
IEPA Well I.D. #60113;
      (2)   Well #2: 2,200 feet south and 2,500 feet west of the northeast
corner of Section 5, Township 7 North, Range 13 West, Jersey County, Illinois,
IEPA Well I.D. #60114; and
      (3)   Well #3: 2,600 feet south and 2,300 feet west of the northeast
corner of Section 5, Township 7 North, Range 13 West, Jersey County, Illinois,
IEPA Well I.D. # not available.
   (B)   Maximum setback area. All that area lying within 1,000 feet of the
three water supply wells, the approximate location thereof being described as
follows:
      (1)   Well #1: 2,200 feet south and 2,000 west of the northeast corner of
Section 5, Township 7 North, Range 13 West, Jersey County, Illinois, IEPA Well
I.D. #60113;
      (2)   Well #2: 2,200 feet south and 2,500 feet west of the northeast
corner of Section 5, Township 7 North, Range 13 West, Jersey County, Illinois,
IEPA Well I.D. #60114; and
      (3)   Well #3: 2,600 feet south and 2,300 feet west of the northeast
corner of Section 5, Township 7 North, Range 13 Wet, Jersey County, Illinois,
IEPA Well I.D. # not available.
(Ord. passed - -)
APPENDIX B: ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS
   The words and terms defined in this Appendix B have the meaning given under
the Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS, Tit. I, being 415 ILCS 5/1, and
apply to Illinois Groundwater Protection Act, 415 ILCS 55/1, and the Illinois
Water Well Construction Code, 415 ILCS 30/3.
   COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY. A public water supply which serves or is intended to
serve at least 15 service connections used by residents or regularly serves at
least 25 residents.
   CONTAMINANT. Any solid, liquid or gaseous matter, any odor or any form of
energy from whatever source.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or
placing of any waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water or into
any well so that such waste or hazardous waste or any constituent thereof may
enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters,
including groundwaters.
   GENERATOR. When used in connection with hazardous waste, means any person
whose act or process produces hazardous waste.
   GROUNDWATER. Underground water which occurs within the saturated zone and
geologic materials where the fluid pressure in the pore space is equal to or
greater than atmospheric pressure.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE.
      (1)   Means:
         (a)   Any substance designated pursuant to § 311(b)2(A) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act (P.L. 92-500), being 33 U.S.C. § 1321(b)(2)(A), as
amended;
         (b)   Any element, compound, mixture, solution or substance designated
pursuant to § 102 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
and Liability Act of 1980 (P.L. 96-510), being 42 U.S.C. § 9601(14), as
amended;
         (c)   Any hazardous waste;
         (d)   Any toxic pollutant listed under § 307(a) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (P.L. 92-500), being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), as amended;
         (e)   Any hazardous air pollutant listed under § 112 of the Clean Air
Act (P.L. 95-95), being 42 U.S.C. § 7410(a)(6), as amended; and
         (f)   Any imminently hazardous chemical substance or mixture with
respect to which the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
has taken action pursuant to § 7 of the Toxic Substance Control Act (P.L. 94-
469), being 12 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., as amended.
      (2)   The term does not include petroleum, including crude oil or any
fraction thereof which is not otherwise specifically listed or designated as a
hazardous substance under divisions (1)(a) through (1)(f) of this definition,
and the term does not include natural gas, natural gas liquids, liquefied gas
and such synthetic gas.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste, or combination of wastes, which because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may
cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an increase in
serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or pose a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
improperly treated, stored, transported or disposed of, or otherwise managed,
and which has been identified, by characteristics or listing, as hazardous
pursuant to § 3001 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (P.L.
94-580), being 42 U.S.C. § 6921, or pursuant to PCS regulations.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulations of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
   MUNICIPAL WASTE. Garbage, general household and commercial waste landscape
waste and construction or demolition debris.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any city, village or incorporated town.
   NON-COMMUNITY WATER SUPPLY. A public water supply that is not a community
water supply.
   POTABLE. Generally fit for human consumption in accordance with accepted
water supply principles and practices.
   POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE.
      (1)   Any unit at a facility or site not currently subject to a removal
or remedial action which:
         (a)   Is utilized for the treatment, storage or disposal of any
hazardous or special waste not generated at the site;
         (b)   Is utilized for the disposal of municipal waste not generated at
the site, other than landscape waste and construction and demolition debris;
         (c)   Is utilized for the landfilling, land treating, surface
impounding or piling of any hazardous, or special waste that is generated on
the site or at other sites owned, controlled or operated by the same person; or
         (d)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 75,000 pounds above
ground, or more than 7,500 pounds below ground, of any hazardous substances.
      (2)   A NEW POTENTIAL PRIMARY SOURCE is:
         (a)   A potential primary source which is not in existence or for
which construction has not commenced at its location as of January 1, 1988;
         (b)   A potential primary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary or, if the primary is not permitted, the boundary
in existence as of January 1, 1988; or
         (c)   A potential primary source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components constructed
within a two-year period exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility.
      (3)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   POTENTIAL ROUTE.
      (1)   Abandoned and improperly plugged wells of all kinds, drainage
wells, all injection wells, including closed loop heat pump wells and any
excavation for the discovery, development or production of stone, sand or
gravel.
      (2)   A NEW POTENTIAL ROUTE is:
         (a)   A potential route which is not in existence or for which
construction has not commenced at its location as of January 1, 1968; or
         (b)   A potential route which expands laterally beyond the currently
permitted boundary or, if the potential route is not permitted, the boundary in
existence as of January 1, 1988.
      (3)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE.
      (1)   Any unit at a facility or site not currently subject to a removal
or remedial action, other than a potential primary source, which:
         (a)   Is utilized for the landfilling, land treating or surface
impounding of waste that is generated on the site or at other sites owned,
controlled or operated by the same person, other than livestock and landscape
waste, and construction and demolition debris;
         (b)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 but more than
75,000 pounds above ground, or more than 2,500 but not more than 7,500 pounds
below ground, of any hazardous substances;
         (c)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 25,000 gallons above
ground, or more than 500 gallons below ground, of petroleum, including crude
oil or any faction thereof which is not otherwise specifically listed or
designated as a hazardous substance;
         (d)   Stores or accumulates pesticides, fertilizers or road oils for
purposes of commercial application or for distribution to retail sales outlets;
         (e)   Stores or accumulates at any time more than 50,000 pounds of any
de-icing agent; or
         (f)   Is utilized for handling livestock waste or for treating
domestic wastewaters other than private sewage disposal systems as defined in
the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225.
      (2)   A NEW POTENTIAL SECONDARY SOURCE is:
         (a)   A potential secondary source which is not in existence or for
which construction has not commenced at its location as of July 1, 1988;
         (b)   A potential secondary source which expands laterally beyond the
currently permitted boundary or, if the secondary source is not permitted, the
boundary in existence as of July 1, 1988, other than an expansion for handling
of livestock waste or for treating domestic wastewaters; or
         (c)   A potential secondary source which is part of a facility that
undergoes major reconstruction. Such reconstruction shall be deemed to have
taken place where the fixed capital cost of the new components constructed
within a two-year period exceed 50% of the fixed capital cost of a comparable
entirely new facility.
      (3)   Construction shall be deemed commenced when all necessary federal,
state and local approvals have been obtained, and work at the site has been
initiated and proceeds in a reasonably continuous manner to completion.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
community water supply or a non-community water supply.
   REGULATED RECHARGE AREA. A compact geographic area as determined by the PCB,
the geology of which renders a potable resource groundwater particularly
susceptible to contamination.
   RESOURCE GROUNDWATER. Groundwater that is presently being or in the future
capable of being put to beneficial use by reason of being of suitable quality.
   SETBACK ZONE. A geographic area, designated pursuant to the Act, containing
a potable water supply well or a potential source or potential route, having a
continuous boundary, and within which certain prohibitions or regulations are
applicable in order to protect groundwaters.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Any industrial process waste, pollution control waste or
hazardous waste, except as may be determined pursuant to § 22.9 of this Act.
   STORAGE. When used in connection with hazardous waste, means the containment
of hazardous waste, either on a temporary basis or for a period of years, in
such a manner as not to constitute disposal of such hazardous waste.
   TREATMENT. When used in connection with hazardous waste means any method,
technique or process, including neutralization, designed to change the
physical, chemical or biological character or composition of any hazardous
waste so as to neutralize such waste or so as to render such waste non-
hazardous, safer for transport, amenable for recovery, amenable for storage or
reduced in volume. Such term includes any activity or processing designed to
change the physical form or chemical composition of hazardous waste so as to
render it non-hazardous.
   WELL. A bored, drilled or driven shaft, or dug hole, the depth of which is
greater than the largest surface dimension.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   IMPOUNDMENT
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Public transportation
§ 70.01 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   The county shall hereby provide public transportation within the
county or counties limits.
   (B)   The County Board Chairperson is hereby authorized and directed by the
County Board to execute and file on behalf of the county a grant application to
the State Department of Transportation.
   (C)   The County Board Chairperson is hereby authorized and directed by the
County Board to execute and file on behalf of the county all required grant
agreements with the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2015; Ord. 17-3, passed 3-14-2017)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Careless driving
Policy on Establishment and Posting of Speed Limits
   
71.15   Introduction
   
71.16   Statutory speed limits
   
71.17   Limits of authority for alteration of statutory limits
   
71.18   Criteria for selecting speed limits in altered speed zones
   
71.19   Procedures for obtaining prevailing speed data
   
71.20   Supplemental policies
   
71.21   Posting of altered speed limits
 
   
71.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Definitions
   
Appendix B: Sample forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a motor vehicle to accelerate
such vehicle in a manner which is careless or excessive and shall be defined as
follows;
      (1)   Causing tires to break traction, thus emitting a squealing noise;
      (2)   Causing the rear of such vehicle to slide on the pavement in a side
to side motion;
      (3)   Accelerating such vehicle into tailgating position behind another
vehicle; and
      (4)   Accelerating such vehicle in a manner which causes the front of the
vehicle to bounce thus reducing the driver’s control of the vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall in no way apply to acceleration necessary to
prevent or avoid a collision with another motor vehicle or pedestrian.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1989) Penalty, see §
71.99
POLICY ON ESTABLISHMENT AND POSTING OF SPEED LIMITS
§ 71.15 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   Section 11-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (IVC), being 625 ILCS 5/
11-601, specifies statutory speed limits on streets, alleys and highways in
rural and urban areas by various classifications of vehicles. Provisions for
the altering of these statutory speed limits by the local authority having
maintenance jurisdiction or responsibility is defined in 625 ILCS 5/11-604,
subject to certain restrictions.
   (B)   Section 11-304 of the IVC requires all traffic control devices placed
by local authorities to conform to the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways (MUTCD). Section 1A-4 of the MUTCD states the
decision to use a sign at a particular location should be based on an
engineering study. Therefor, altered speed limits must be based upon an
engineering and traffic investigation and appropriate signs giving notice of
the altered limit must be erected. Altered speed limits established on the
basis of opinions of either public officials or private individuals have no
legal authority.
   (C)   Speed limits, both statutory and altered, are absolute in character,
and no motorist may legally exceed such limits at any time, regardless of
conditions. Therefor, an altered speed limit shall reflect the optimum, rather
than the adverse driving condition, as drivers are subject to citation even
though traveling at a speed lower than the posted limit if they are driving at
a speed that is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any personal
property.
   (D)   Altered speed limits establish a restraint upon the freedom of the
driver to choose a speed at which the driver desires to travel and therefore
should be imposed only to the extent that their use will facilitate traffic
flow by reducing turbulence in the traffic stream. Driver acceptance is a
prerequisite to effective enforcement. If the regulations are imposed only
where they are needed and necessary, the driver will more readily accept the
need for them. Conversely, an improper or unreasonable low speed limit posting
is often violated by the majority of the motoring public, making enforcement of
the speed limit completely impracticable, with the resultant operating speeds
higher than would exist with a proper and reasonable speed posting.
   (E)   The installation of all signs regulating speed is detailed in the
MUTCD. All signs shall conform to the table of Illinois Standard Signs and the
size shall be in accordance with Table A, Sized Designation in the state
supplement to the national MUTCD.
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
§ 71.16 STATUTORY SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   In the state, the following speed limits established by statute are
applicable to county and township highways.
   (B)   Maximum speed limits are for the areas described and are legally
enforceable with or without posted signs.
      (1)   In urban districts.
         (a)   Streets and highways: 30 mph; and
         (b)   Alleys: 15 mph.
      (2)   Outside urban districts. All vehicles: 55 mph.
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
§ 71.17 LIMITS OF AUTHORITY FOR ALTERATION OF STATUTORY LIMITS.
   When the County Board determines that a maximum speed limit is greater or
less than is reasonable or safe with respect to the conditions found to exist
along any county or township highway, or part or zone there of, within the
county, except those that are under the jurisdiction of the State Department of
Transportation or the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority, the County Board
shall determine and declare by, ordinance, a reasonable and proper absolute
maximum speed limit as follows:
   (A)   Does not exceed 55 mph;
   (B)   Increases the limit within an urban district to not more than 55 mph;
   (C)   Decreases the limit within an urban district to not less than 20 mph;
   (D)   Decreases the limit outside of an urban district to not less than 35
mph, except as otherwise provided in division (E) below;
   (E)   Decreases the limit within a residence district to not less than 25
mph, except as otherwise provided in division (C) above;
   (F)   Not more than six alterations shall be made per mile, and the
difference in limit between adjacent altered speed zones shall not be more than
ten mph; and
   (G)   Minimum speed limits may be posted at any locations where it has been
determined that the slow vehicles are impeding the flow of traffic.
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
§ 71.18 CRITERIA FOR SELECTING SPEED LIMITS IN ALTERED SPEED ZONES.
   (A)   Basic investigation.
      (1)   The prevailing speed of free flowing traffic has been recognized by
most transportation agencies as the basic parameter for use in establishing
speed limits either higher or lower than the statutory speed limits set by 625
ILCS 5/11-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      (2)   Prevailing speed shall be determined by use of two separated sets
of data, which are:
         (a)   Eighty-fifth percentile speed;
         (b)   Upper limit of the consecutive ten mph that have the most
observations, also known as the upper limit of the ten mph pace;
         (c)   The prevailing speed shall be determined by computing the
average of the measured values for the criteria listed above; and
         (d)   Based on the assumption that a majority of motorists will drive
at a speed, which they judge to be safe and reasonable, the selected speed
limit in five mph increments should not differ from the established prevailing
speed by more than three mph unless justified by supplementary investigations.
   (B)   Optional supplementary investigations.
      (1)   Selected speed limit. The selected speed limit may differ from the
established prevailing speed by more than three mph when justified by further
investigation. Such investigation may include the study of any or all the
following conditions:
         (a)   Accident rate;
         (b)   Access control;
         (c)   Pedestrian activity; and
         (d)   Parking.
      (2)   Accident rate. If the accident rate, based on all reportable
accidents (intersection and non-intersection), within the proposed zone is 50%
higher than the county average accident rate for the same classification of
highway, the prevailing speed may be reduced by 5%. If the accident rate is
more than twice the county average rate for the same classification of highway,
the prevailing speeds may be reduced by 10%. Minor accidents not reportable
under state statutes are not to be considered in computing accident rates.
      (3)   Access control. The effect of driveways and other entrances will be
determined by using an access control number. For this purpose, a field
entrance or driveway to a single-family dwelling shall have a conflict number
of one.
         (a)   Minor commercial entrances and driveways serving multiple family
residential units and minor street intersections shall have a conflict number
of five and major commercial entrances or major street intersections shall have
a conflict number of ten.
         (b)   If the total access conflict number within a proposed zone
exceeds the rates shown in the table, the prevailing speed may be reduced by
the percentages indicated.
 
Access Conflict Rate (Conflicts Per Mile) Prevailing Speed Reduction (Percent)
0—40                                    0%
41—60                                   5%
61 or more                                10%
 
      (4)   Pedestrian activity.
         (a)   Where no sidewalks are provided or where sidewalks are located
immediately behind the curb and the total pedestrian traffic exceeds ten per
hour for any three hours within any eight-hour period, the prevailing speed may
be reduced by 5%.
         (b)   Pedestrians crossing the route may be included if the point of
crossing is not protected by some other form of speed control or intersection
control device. This reduction may be applied only once in the establishment of
any particular zone.
      (5)   Parking. Where parking is permitted adjacent to the traffic lanes,
the prevailing speed may be reduced by 5%.
      (6)   Percentage corrections. Percentage corrections for any or all of
the above factors may be applied to the prevailing speed of free-flowing
traffic, but in no case shall the resulting speed limit differ from the
prevailing speed by more than ten mph or by 20% of the prevailing speed,
whichever is less. Posted limits shall always be in five mph increments.
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
§ 71.19 PROCEDURES FOR OBTAINING PREVAILING SPEED DATA.
   (A)   Spot speed studies are to be analyzed to determine the eighty-fifth
percentile speed and the upper limit of the ten mph pace. The EIGHTY-FIFTH
PERCENTILE SPEED is defined as the speed at which 85% of the vehicles are
traveling at or below. The TEN MPH PACE is defined as the ten mph range
containing the most vehicles.
   (B)   Spot speed studies should be made as close to the center of the
proposed zone as is practicable. If the zone is in excess of one mile in
length, studies should be made every mile. If the difference in prevailing
speed between the two adjacent locations is less than five mph, the lower value
should be used. If the difference in prevailing speed is over five mph,
consideration should be given to designating two separate zones.
   (C)   Care must be exercised to be sure that the data is collected in such a
manner and at such times that it is a true indication of normal conditions.
Such conditions are assumed to prevail under clear weather conditions, dry
pavement, following the morning peak traffic hours and prior to the evening
peak traffic hours on any weekday except holidays. The traffic study shall not
be taken the day prior to a holiday or the day after a holiday. Observations
should not be made immediately following a spectacular accident or during a
period of greater than normal police enforcement. Every effort should be made
to conceal the fact that speeds are being recorded.
   (D)   Speeds should be observed for a total of 100 passenger cars and pickup
trucks in each direction (a maximum of three hours of observation can be
imposed on low volume highways). Speed of trucks over four tons shall not
included in the data for determining an altered limit.
   (E)   Where data collection is difficult on low traffic volume rural
subdivision streets, the sample sizes reduced. Speed studies need not be
conducted on every subdivision street each time a zone is proposed. Speed
studies conducted on a representative sample of subdivision streets would be
acceptable. Speed data or other criteria from these representative streets
could then be applied to any other similar streets.
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
§ 71.20 SUPPLEMENTAL POLICIES.
   The following additional policies shall be observed in establishing and
posting speed zones.
   (A)   Normally, isolated curves and turns, areas of restricted sight
distance, no passing zones and the like will not be considered as areas for
speed zones. Advisory speed signs may be used in connection with the
appropriate warning signs at such locations, and such condition shall not be
considered as influencing a lower limit for the entire zone.
   (B)   Except on divided highways, different speeds for traffic in opposite
directions shall not be posted.
   (C)   A speed zone shall begin at the point or as near in advance of the
point as possible where such speed zone is warranted and shall end at the point
or as near to the point as possible where the zone is not warranted.
   (D)   Minimum speed limits, when used, shall provide for an allowable speed
range of not less than ten mph nor more than 15 mph,. No minimum speed of less
than 30 mph shall be used.
   (E)   No sign in the speed limit series (R2) shall be mounted on the same
post as another sign, except that the basic speed limit sign (R2-1) may be
mounted below the town name sign (I1-1100 or I1-1101) or county route marker
sign (M1-5).
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
§ 71.21 POSTING OF ALTERED SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed zone ahead sign (R2-5c), together with a corresponding
regulatory speed plate (R2-I101), shall be erected in advance of any speed zone
that is ten mph or more under the limit in a preceding statutory limit.
   (B)   (1)   The speed zone ahead sign shall be placed approximately 500 to
600 feet in advance of all altered speed zones in accordance with § 2 B-14 of
the MUTCD and shall always be followed by a basic speed limit sign (R2-1)
erected at the beginning of the zone where the altered speed limit applies.
      (2)   On divided and one-way facilities having two or more lanes in one
direction, signs shall be posted on both sides of the highway for all signs
described above.
      (3)   Additional speed limit signs as described in division (D) below, in
the same zone need not be posted on both sides of the road.
   (C)   The difference in the speed limit from one altered speed zone to an
adjacent altered speed zone shall not be more than ten mph.
   (D)   Speed limit signs for altered zone shall be erected:
      (1)   At the beginning of each zone where the speed limit is altered;
      (2)   At the point of change from one zone to another; and
      (3)   At additional locations within the zone where it is necessary to
remind the motorist of the limit that applicable.
   (E)   Signs shall not be erected until the speed limits are approved and are
officially authorized.
   (F)   The distance between basic speed limit sign installations in altered
speed zones should be as follows:
 
Speed Limit (mph) Minimum Distance       Maximum Distance
30 or less        660 feet or 2 blocks   1,320 feet or 4 blocks
35 or 40          990 feet or 3 blocks   1,980 feet or 6 blocks
45 or 50          1,320 feet or 4 blocks 2,640 feet or 8 blocks
 
   (G)   The recommended distances between speed signs do not apply to the
posting of statutory limits.
   (H)   The size of speed limit signs shall conform with Table A, Size
Designation in the Illinois Supplement to the national MUTCD. The size of the
speed zone ahead and the first speed limit sign should be based on the speed
limit preceding the zone. The size of the remaining signs is based on the speed
in the zone.
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
71.01 shall be punishable by a fine of $25, and may be satisfied without court
appearance by payment of total fine and costs of $50.
(Ord. passed 9-13-1989)
APPENDIX A: DEFINITIONS
   (A)   The following definitions are from the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS
5/.
      BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including a highway
when within any 600 feet along such highway there are buildings in use for
business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels, banks
or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy at
least 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300 feet collectively on both sides
of the highway.
      RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
         (a)   The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of 300 feet or more buildings in use for business.
         (b)   For purposes of establishing maximum speed limits, a residential
district shall be at least a quarter of a mile long with residences or
residences and buildings in use for businesses spaced no more than 300 feet
apart.
      URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street,
which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling
houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of a quarter
of a mile or more.
   (B)   The structures referred to in the definitions should include only
those that have direct access to the highway. Structures on both sides of the
highway should be counted together in determining tire interval.
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
APPENDIX B: SAMPLE FORMS
Link to PDF of forms here
   1.   An ordinance for the establishment of an altered speed zone
   2.   Application for the establishment of an altered speed zone
   3.   Establishment of speed zones
   4.   Spot speed study
   5.   Condition diagram
FORM 1. AN ORDINANCE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ALTERED SPEED ZONE.
   Resolution of the County Board Of Jersey County, Illinois
   AN ORDINANCE AND RESOLUTION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ALTERED SPEED ZONE
   IT IS HEREBY DECLARED, ORDAINED AND RESOLVED by the County Board of Jersey
County, Illinois, that the statutory maximum vehicular speed limits established
by Section 11-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code are greater, or less,
respectively, that that considered reasonable and proper on the street or
highway, respectively, listed in the Schedule on the reverse side for which
Road District has maintenance responsibility and which is not under the
jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation or the Illinois State
Toll Highway Authority; and,
   BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, ORDAINED AND RESOLVED THAT THIS board has caused to
be made an engineering and traffic investigation upon the respective streets or
highways listed in the Schedule; and,
   BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, ORDAINED AND RESOLVED that, by virtue of Section 11-
604 of the above code, this Board determines and declares that reasonable and
proper absolute maximum speed limits upon those respective streets and highways
described in the Schedule shall be as stated therein; and,
   BE IT FURTHER DECLARED, ORDAINED AND RESOLVED that this ordinance shall take
effect immediately after the erection of signs giving notice of the maximum
speed limits. Said signs shall be erected in conformance with the standards and
specifications contained in the Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
ADOPTED AND PASSED THE ____________ DAY OF __________, 20____
ATTEST:
_____________________________
COUNTY CLERK                        (SEAL)
   SCHEDULE OF ALTERED SPEED ZONES
 
Name of Street Or Highway From: To: Maximum Speed Limits
                                  
 
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
FORM 2. APPLICATION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ALTERED SPEED ZONE.
   APPLICATION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ALTERED SPEED ZONE
An ALTERED SPEED ZONE as referred to in this application is a length of roadway
on which a uniform speed limit at variance with the Statewide statutory limit
is posted.
***********************************************************************************
To the COUNTY BOARD
   In accordance with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets
and Highways, the Highway Department has completed an engineering and traffic
investigation report concerning the street or highway listed below and requests
that an altered speed zone be approved. This application is for the:
Establishment of new zone    Revision of existing zone    Extension of existing
zone
Street or roadway to be zoned
__________________________________________________________
From ________________________________________________________
To __________________________________________________________
                  In or                  Proposed
County_____________   Near ___________________   Length ______________   Speed
__________
The Statements contained in this APPLICATION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN
ALTERED SPEED ZONE and the data submitted obtained from an engineering and
traffic investigation are true and correct, and in conformance with the Highway
Department’s POLICY FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT AND POSTING OF SPEED LIMITS ON COUNTY
AND TOWNSHIP HIGHWAYS.
Date _________________      Submitted By:
__________________________________________
                                       County Engineer
Enclosures:     Copy of Ordinance
          Establishment of Speed Zone
          Spot Speed Study
          Condition Diagram
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
FORM 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF SPEED ZONES.
   JERSEY COUNTY HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHMENT OF SPEED ZONES
                              ZONE NO.__________________
ROUTE _____________________________ FROM
__________________________________________
TO ___________________________________ A DISTANCE OF ______________________
MILES
IN__________________________, ____________________ TOWNSHIP,
_______________COUNTY
I.   Spot Speed Studies (Attached).
 
Check No. 85th% 10 mph Pace Upper Limit
               
               
 
II.   Test Runs.
 
RUN NO. AVERAGE SPEED MPH
        NB or WE SB or EB
1                 
2                 
3                 
4                 
5                 
 
III.   Prevailing Speed.
 
85th percentile avg. ________mph
Upper limit avg.     ________mph
Test run avg.        ________mph
Prevailing speed     ________mph
 
IV.   Existing Speed Limits.
 
Zone being studied    ________mph
Violation rate        __________%
Adjacent Zones N or W ________mph
   Length          ________miles
      S or E    ________mph
   Length          ________miles
 
V. Driveway Conflicts.
 
Residential drives    ______ x 1.0 = ____
Small business drives ______ x 5.0 = ____
Large business drives _____ x 15.0 = ____
Driveway conflict number total ________
(D.C.N.)  =____________________
   Miles          Conflict No./Mile
 
VI. Miscellaneous Factors.
 
Pedestrian volume_________________________
Accident rate ratio:
   Statewide Avg. =_______________
      Route
Parking permitted        Yes No
 
VII. Prevailing Speed Adjustment
 
Driveway adjustment          _________%
Pedestrian adjustment        _________%
Accident adjustment          _________%
Parking adjustment           _________%
      Total (max 20%)  _________%
mph x  % =                        
Prevailing speed Adjustment (Max. 9 mph)
   Adjusted prevailing spe_______mph
 
VIII. Revised Speed Limit.
 
Recommended speed limit    _______mph
Anticipated violation rate _________%
Recommended by              
   Organization_____________________
      Date_______________________
   Approved by______________________
      Date _______________________
 
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
FORM 4. SPOT SPEED STUDY.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd66bd3de78db96292dc50bd76968459045c499c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1192.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd66bd3de78db96292dc50bd76968459045c499c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1194.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd66bd3de78db96292dc50bd76968459045c499c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1196.png]
 
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
FORM 5: CONDITION DIAGRAM.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cd66bd3de78db96292dc50bd76968459045c499c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1190.png]
 
(Res. passed 3-13-2007)
CHAPTER 72: IMPOUNDMENT
Section
   
72.01   Vehicle seizure and impoundment
   
72.02   Violations of offenses subject to seizure and impoundment
   
72.03   Exceptions
   
72.04   Notice; towing; release
   
72.05   Hearings
   
72.06   Vehicle possession
   
72.07   Hearing officer
   
72.08   Decision review
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any motor vehicle operated, used or in the physical control of any person,
with the express or implied permission of the owner of record (as registered
with the Secretary of State, State of Illinois), on any public highway within
the county during the commission of or in furtherance of any offense or
violation set forth in §
72.02, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the county.
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 72.02 VIOLATIONS OF OFFENSES SUBJECT TO SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Driving while driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate a motor
vehicle is suspended or revoked (625 ILCS 5/6-303);
   (B)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs,
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof (625 ILCS 5/11-
501);
   (C)   Fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer (625 ILCS 5/11-204) or
aggravating fleeing or attempt to elude a police officer (625 ILCS 5/11-204.1);
   (D)   Drag racing (625 ILCS 5/11-506);
   (E)   Unlawful use of a weapon (720 ILCS 5/24-1);
   (F)   Possession of a controlled substance (720 ILCS 570/402); and
   (G)   Possession of cannabis in excess of 30 grams (720 ILCS 550/4).
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 72.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of §
72.02 shall not apply if at the time of the offense the vehicle was stolen and
the theft was reported to the appropriate police authority within 24 hours
after the theft was discovered, or the vehicle was otherwise operated without
the knowledge and express or implied consent of the registered owner.
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 72.04 NOTICE; TOWING; RELEASE.
   (A)   Whenever an officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle is
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter and the deputy has
arrested the operator or person in physical control of the vehicle for any of
the offenses set forth in §
72.02, the officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility
authorized by the county. Prior to or at the time the vehicle is towed, the
officer shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner or any
person identifying himself or herself as the owner of the vehicle, or any
person who is found to be in physical control of the vehicle at the time of the
allege offense, or the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle owner’s right to
request a preliminary vehicle impoundment hearing to be conducted in accordance
with §
72.05(A) and hearing pursuant to §
72.05(B). The vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of the hearing
(s) provided for in §
72.05, unless the owner of the vehicle or someone on his or her behalf posts
with the county a cash bond in the amount of $200 and pays the towing and
storage charges.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the arresting
officer may release the vehicle prior to towing if the vehicle subject to
seizure and impoundment was not owned by the person placed under arrest and the
registered owner or some other person legally authorized to possess the vehicle
shall arrive at the scene of the arrest prior to the actual removal or towing
of the vehicle and the lawful owner or the person lawfully entitled to
possession of the vehicle possesses a valid operator’s license, proof of
ownership or registration, proof of liability insurance and would not, as
determined by the arresting police officer, indicate a lack of ability to
operate the motor vehicle in a safe manner, or who would otherwise, by
operating the motor vehicle, not be in violation of the State Vehicle Code. If
the vehicle subject to seizure and impoundment is owned by the person under
arrest, the arresting Deputy may, prior to the actual removal of towing of the
vehicle, release the vehicle to another person with the written consent of the
owner, provided that such other person possesses a valid operator’s license,
proof of liability insurance and would not, as determined by the arresting
deputy, indicate a lack of ability to operate the motor vehicle in a safe
manner or who would otherwise, by operating the motor vehicle, not be in
violation of the State Vehicle Code.
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 72.05 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Within ten days after a vehicle is seized and impounded, the Sheriff
or his or her designee shall notify the registered owner of record of the
seized and impounded vehicle by certified mail, return receipt requested, and
first class mail, postage prepaid, of the date, time and location of the
hearing to be conducted. The owner shall appear at the hearing and enter a
determination to contest or not contest the basis for the seizure. The case
will be disposed of at that time by entry of an administrative penalty if a
factual basis exists for the seizure. If the owner elects to contest the basis
for the seizure, the case will be disposed of at the time by entry of an
administrative penalty if a factual basis exists for the seizure. If the owner
elects to contest the basis for the impoundment and seizure, a hearing shall be
held immediately, unless continued by order of the Hearing Officer.
Continuances shall only be granted for good cause shown. All interested persons
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. At any time
prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer may, at the request of the
registered owner of the vehicle or the county, direct witness to appear and
give testimony at the hearing. Subpoenas for the production of witnesses and
records may be issued upon request of either party. The formal rules of
evidence shall not apply at the hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be the
conduct of their affairs. If, after the hearing, the Hearing Officer determines
by a preponderance of the evidence that the vehicle was used or operated in
connection with or during the commission or attempted commission of any offense
set forth in §
72.02, the Hearing Officer shall enter an order finding the owner of record of
the vehicle civilly liable to the county for the towing and storage of the
vehicle as the case may be. If, after proper service of notice, the owner of
record fails to appear at the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall conduct the
hearing absentia and, if appropriate, enter a default order in favor of the
county, a copy of which default order shall be sent to the registered owner via
certified mail, return receipt requested, and first class mail, postage
prepaid. If at the hearing the Hearing Officer finds that no such violation
occurred, the Hearing Officer shall order the immediate return of the vehicle
and cash bond, if posted, to the owner without assessing any penalty.
   (B)   All hearings shall be recorded and said recording shall be the
official record of the proceedings. All findings, decisions and orders of the
Hearing Officer shall be reduced to writings, signed by the Hearing Officer and
served upon all parties within seven days after the hearing by mail or personal
service.
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 72.06 VEHICLE POSSESSION.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by law or by order of the Hearing
Officer, no owner, lien holder of record, or other person shall be legally
entitled to take possession of a seized and impounded vehicle until the bond,
administrative penalty and towing and storage fees have been paid. The
foregoing notwithstanding, whenever a person or other entity with a lien of
record against an impounded vehicle has commenced foreclosure or repossession
proceedings, possession of the vehicle shall be given to that person if the
lien holder agrees in writing to refund to the county the amount of the net
proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any amounts required to pay all lien
holders of record, not to exceed the administrative penalty, plus the
applicable towing and storage fees.
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 72.07 HEARING OFFICER.
   The Hearing Officer shall be the sitting resident judge in the county.
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 72.08 DECISION REVIEW.
   Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the Hearing Officer may appeal
that decision pursuant to the provision of the Illinois Administrative Review
Law (735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.).
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If an administrative penalty is imposed, the penalty shall constitute
a debt due and owing to the county. All fines or penalties shall be paid 50%
into the County General Fund and 50% into the State’s Attorney Drug Fund. If a
cash bond has been posted the bond shall be applied to the penalty. If a
vehicle is impounded when a penalty is imposed, the county may seek to obtain a
judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment against the vehicle as provided
by law.
      (1)   Except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter, all vehicles
shall continue to be impounded until the penalty is paid to the county and any
applicable towing and storage fees are paid to the towing entity of county, as
the case may be, in which case possession of the vehicle shall be given to the
person who is legally entitled to possess the vehicle, if the vehicles is sold
or otherwise disposed of to satisfy a judgment and lien as provided by law.
      (2)   If the administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage
fees are not paid within 30 days after the expiration of time in which
administrative review of the Hearing Officer’s determination may be sought, or
within 30 days after an action seeking administrative review has been resolved
in favor of the county, whichever is applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed
unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the
disposition of unclaimed vehicles under the State Vehicle Code.
   (B)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle operated, used or in the
physical control of any person, with the express or implied permission of the
owner of record, on any public highway within the county during the commission
of or in furtherance of any offense or violation set forth in §
72.02, may be liable to the county for a civil penalty in an amount not to
exceed $200, in addition to any towing and storage fees.
(Res. passed 8-12-2008)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The statutory maximum vehicular speed limits established by 625 ILCS
5/11-601 of the State Vehicle Code are greater, or less, respectively, that
that considered reasonable and proper on the street or highway, respectively,
listed in the schedule below for which Road District has maintenance
responsibility and which is not under the jurisdiction of the State Department
of Transportation or the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority.
   (B)   This Board has caused to be made an engineering and traffic
investigation upon the respective streets or highways listed in the schedule.
   (C)   By virtue of 625 ILCS 5/11-604 of the State Vehicle Code, this Board
determines and declares that reasonable and proper absolute maximum speed
limits upon those respective streets and highways described in the schedule
shall be as stated therein.
   (D)   These regulations shall take effect immediately after the erection of
signs giving notice of the maximum speed limits. Said signs shall be erected in
conformance with the standards and specifications contained in the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
 
Name of                            Maximum Road
Streets or  From     To            Speed   District    Ord./Res. Date Passed
Highway                            Limits  Responsible
All streets
located     Located in Section 8
within      and 17 of Elsah        30 mph  Elsah       Res.      3-13- 2007
Joywood     Township
Estates
Subdivision
All streets
located     Located in Section 27
within      of Piasa Township      30 mph  Piasa       Res.      2-13- 2008
Piasa Lake
Subdivision
Beltrees    Elsah    East                  Jersey
Road (CH    Village  approximately 35 mph  County      Res.      11-10- 2009
23)         limits   1,600 feet
            Cemetery North                 Jersey
Elsah Road  Road     approximately 25 mph  County      Res.      11-10- 2009
                     0.5 miles
 
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The County Highway Engineer has determined that the placement of
certain stop signs is necessary for the protection of those traveling through
the county.
   (B)   The County Highway Engineer has further determined that the particular
placement of the following stop signs is the least restrictive means available
to control traffic while protecting those traveling county highways, pursuant
to the Illinois Department of Transportation Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways.
   (B)   New stop signs shall be purchased installed and maintained at the
following locations, requiring traffic to stop at said locations:
      (1)   Beatty Mound Road, northbound, and Crystal Lake Road, westbound;
      (2)   North Centennial Road, westbound, at the intersection with Costello
Road;
      (3)   Oak Rest Road, northbound, at the intersection with Prairie Dell
Road;
      (4)   Red Oak Lane, westbound, at the intersection with Lageman Lane; and
      (5)   Stone Circle Drive, northbound, at the intersection with Delhi
Road.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2005)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Purpose of this chapter
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Enforcement
   
90.04   Animals running at large
   
90.05   Impoundment and redemption
   
90.06   Redemption other than owner
   
90.07   Enforcement officers not responsible
Health and Safety Hazards
   
90.20   Inoculation of dogs
   
90.21   Inoculation tags
   
90.22   Dogs that bite
   
90.23   Reimbursement to animal bite victims
   
90.24   Dangerous and vicious dogs
Intergovernmental Agreement
   
90.35   Facility owned and maintained by city
   
90.36   Duration of agreement
   
90.37   City responsibilities
   
90.38   County responsibilities
   
90.39   Procedure regarding animals
   
90.40   No liability and indemnification
   
90.41   Liability insurance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 PURPOSE OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The county will operate an animal control program in accordance with
the Animal Control Act, and through an intergovernmental agreement with the
City of Jerseyville. The purpose of the animal control program is to protect
the public from rabies and from vicious and dangerous dogs by controlling and
impounding animals under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   This chapter applies to unincorporated areas of the county, and issues
that are not specifically addressed in this subchapter will be handled in
accordance with the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog when unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended by
its owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person would
believe poses a serious and imminent threat of serious physical injury or death
to a person or a companion animal in a public place.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that, without justification, attacks and causes serious
physical injury or death to a person or a companion animal; or any individual
dog that has been found to be a dangerous dog upon three separate occasions.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021)
§ 90.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The county shall provide an animal control officer, who may issue and serve
citations and orders for violations of this chapter. The animal control officer
is authorized by this chapter to carry a firearm in accordance with the Animal
Control Act.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 510 ILCS 5/5
§ 90.04 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Every owner of an animal shall contain such animal to the confines of
the owner’s real property, unless the animal is under restraint, and shall not
permit such animal to be at large. Any animal found running at large in the
county may be apprehended by the animal control officer and impounded in the
animal control facility.
   (B)   Any animal running at large within the county whose capture endangers
or threatens the safety of an animal control officer, police officer, Sheriff
or Deputy Sheriff, or endangers the safety of any person within the county, may
be slain by an animal control officer, police officer, Sheriff or Deputy
Sheriff.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   When any dog or cat is apprehended and impounded, the animal shall be
scanned for the presence of a microchip and examined for other means of
identification, such as identification tags, tattoos or rabies license tags.
   (B)   The county shall give notice of not less than seven business days to
the owner, if known. Such notice shall be mailed to the last known address of
the owner.
   (C)   (1)   All dogs and cats which have been impounded in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter shall be humanely dispatched or disposed of by
the pound as stray dogs in accordance with the laws that exist, or may
hereafter exist, when not redeemed by the owner within a period of not less
than seven business days from the date of impoundment, excepting Sundays and
holidays.
      (2)   In case the owner of the impounded dog desires to make redemption
thereof, he or she may do so on the following conditions and prior to the
release of the animal:
         (a)   The owner shall present proof to the Secretary of the County
Board, or other official designated by the County Board, of current rabies
inoculation;
         (b)   The owner shall make payment to the Secretary of the County
Board, or other official designated by the County Board, for the rabies
inoculation and tag fee; and
         (c)   The owner shall reimburse the county, on a pro-rated basis for
the cost of board, transportation cost and medical expenses of the dog or cat,
at such rate as is set by the Board, for the period it was impounded.
(Agreement entered into 1-12-2016; Ord. passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 REDEMPTION OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   Upon expiration of seven business days from the date of impoundment,
except Sundays and holidays, an unclaimed dog or cat, which has been deemed
suitable for adoption by the animal control officer or Administrator, may be
adopted by any person other than the owner upon payment to the animal control
officer, Administrator or delegate the adoption fee and sterilization deposit;
provided that every dog or cat redeemed must have attached to its collar, or
proof must be provided within 72 hours of, the rabies registration tag of the
county.
   (B)   No animal shall be adopted from the animal control facility unless
sterilized at the cost of the new owner. Any animal adopted from the animal
control facility shall be sterilized pursuant to an adoption agreement. Any
owner who fails to sterilize his or her adopted animal pursuant to the terms of
the agreement shall be in violation of the law. Ownership of any adopted animal
not sterilized shall revert to the animal control facility, and the animal is
subject to immediate impoundment by the animal control officer.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS NOT RESPONSIBLE.
   The county, its representatives or anyone enforcing the provisions of this
chapter shall not be held responsible for any accident or disease that may
happen to any dog.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021)
HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARDS
§ 90.20 INOCULATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog four or more months of age shall cause such dog
to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually or at such
intervals as hereafter may be promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
Evidence of such inoculation shall be entered upon a certificate, the form of
which shall be approved by the County Board, and the certificate shall be
signed by the licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine.
   (B)   The veterinarian administering the vaccine shall cause the certificate
of inoculation to be distributed as follows:
      (1)   Two copies shall be given to the owner at the time of inoculation;
      (2)   The owner shall file one copy with the County Board office, or
other county office designated by the County Board, within 30 days after the
date of inoculation; and
      (3)   One copy shall be retained by the veterinarian administering the
inoculation for a period of five years, or such period as set by the Department
or the County Board.
   (C)   Anyone that owns a dog that is not vaccinated for rabies will be
issued a written warning and will be given seven business days to get the dog
vaccinated for rabies.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Inoculation of dogs required, see 510 ILCS 5/8
§ 90.21 INOCULATION TAGS.
   (A)   The owner of a dog shall, within 30 days after such dog has been
inoculated against rabies, procure an inoculation tag from the county. The cost
of the tag shall be determined and set by the County Board. The owner of a dog
shall cause the inoculation tag to be attached to a collar or harness to be
worn by the animal whenever the animal is not confined in a secure enclosure
place. Valid rabies inoculation tags and certificates from other counties shall
be honored while the animals are in transit or until the dog owner has
established residence in this county.
   (B)   The registration/inoculation tag fee to be charged to the owner of
animals in the county shall be, for annual registration:
      (1)   For each animal which is spayed or neutered: $5; and
      (2)   For each animal which is not spayed or neutered: $15.
   (C)   A licensed veterinarian may procure serially numbered inoculation tags
from the county, at a fee set by the Board, and issue one tag with each
inoculation certificate at the time of inoculation. A licensed veterinarian
shall collect such tag fee from the owner at the time the inoculation tag is
dispensed.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 90.22 DOGS THAT BITE.
   (A)   Confinement required. Whenever the animal control officer receives
information that any person has been bitten by a dog, the officer shall have
such dog confined and observed by a licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   Places of confinement.
      (1)   Owner’s residence. If the animal control officer or veterinarian is
presented evidence that such dog has been inoculated against rabies within the
time prescribed by law prior to the biting, such dog shall be confined in the
house of its owner or in a manner that will prohibit such dog from biting any
person for a period of ten days. At the end of the ten-day period, the dog
shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian.
      (2)   Confinement elsewhere. If there is no evidence that the dog has
been inoculated against rabies within the time prescribed by law prior to the
biting, such dog shall be confined in the city dog pound, or confined at any
private pound or kennel where it may be observed at any time by a licensed
veterinarian. Such confinement shall be for a period of ten days. At the end of
the ten-day period, the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian and
their report submitted to the animal control officer.
   (C)   Expense of confinement. Any expense incurred in the handling of any
dog shall be borne by the owner or keeper of the dog.
   (D)   Conditions of release. The owner or keeper of any confined dog have
the dog properly inoculated against rabies and purchase an inoculation tag from
the county before such dog is released from confinement.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23 REIMBURSEMENT TO ANIMAL BITE VICTIMS.
   The county is not obligated to pay to any person or resident of the county
from the Animal Control Fund any amount for the purchase of human rabies anti-
serum, the purchase of human vaccine, any costs for the administration of the
serum or vaccine or any amount for medical care which may have been provided to
human bite victims.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021)
§ 90.24 DANGEROUS AND VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Authority to kill vicious dogs. If any vicious dog, when it is
necessary for the protection of any person or property, cannot safely be taken
up and impounded, such dog may be slain by any police officer; provided,
however, that in all cases where any dog slain has bitten any person or caused
an abrasion of the skin of any such person, it shall be the duty of the police
officer slaying such dog to immediately deliver the carcass and brain to the
State Department of Public Health.
   (B)   Determination of dangerous dog. The animal control officer must visit
the premises to determine if the dog is a dangerous dog by definition.
   (C)   Conditions for keeping dangerous dog. If a dog is determined to be
dangerous, the following are required in order to keep the dog:
      (1)   A six-foot fenced pen with a fenced top and fenced or concrete
bottom enclosing the premises, with a locked door and a “Beware of Dog” sign
easily visible;
      (2)   The dog is to be secured with a metal chain; and
      (3)   If the dog is taken outside the fenced pen, the dog must have a
metal chain, not exceeding six feet in length, and be muzzled.
   (D)   Euthanization. Upon the occurrence of an attack, the owner or keeper
of the dog shall be required, after the dog has been confined for ten days by
the animal control officer, to arrange for the humane euthanization of said dog
by a licensed veterinarian. The cost of such shall be borne by the owner or
keeper of the dog. A licensed veterinarian shall inspect the dog at the
occurrence of the bite and after impoundment for ten days.
(Ord. passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT
§ 90.35 FACILITY OWNED AND MAINTAINED BY CITY.
   The City of Jerseyville maintains an animal control facility within the city
and the City Council and the County Board believe that it is in the best
interests of the citizens of the city and the county to share the usage of the
new facility. The city maintains an animal control facility on real property
owned by the city, and the city will continue to own and maintain said
facility, both inside and outside, for the duration of this agreement.
(Agreement signed 1-12-2016)
§ 90.36 DURATION OF AGREEMENT.
   This agreement shall be in full force and effect up to and until one party
provides the other party with six months written notification of the intention
to withdraw from the agreement.
(Agreement signed 1-12-2016)
§ 90.37 CITY RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The city animal control officer and/or other city employees will:
   (A)   Do all daily cleaning of the facility, both inside and outside;
   (B)   Do all feeding, watering and caring for the animals;
   (C)   Do all euthanasia of the animals, as required; and
   (D)   Provide all labor to stock all food, cleaning and euthanasia supplies,
as needed.
(Agreement signed 1-12-2016)
§ 90.38 COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The county will pay for:
   (A)   All utility usage charges for electricity, natural gas and water used
at the facility;
   (B)   All food, litter, cleaning and euthanasia supplies;
   (C)   Trash dumpster rental;
   (D)   Freezer rental or purchase; and
   (E)   Costs of disposal of euthanized animals.
(Agreement signed 1-12-2016)
§ 90.39 PROCEDURE REGARDING ANIMALS.
   The county animal control officer or other county employee will have access
to the garage at the animal control facility to deliver and drop off any animal
picked up in the county and they shall complete an in-take card, including the
animal owner’s name, address and telephone number, if possible, and any other
relevant information about the animal or its owner.
(Agreement signed 1-12-2016)
§ 90.40 NO LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   The city shall not be responsible or liable for any negligent, willful or
intentional act, error or omission of the county animal control officers or
other county employees or agents, and the county shall indemnify and hold the
city harmless from any and all costs or expenses thereon, including attorney
fees and court costs related thereto. The county shall not be responsible or
liable for any negligent, willful or intentional act, error or omission of the
city animal control officers or other city employees or agents, and the city
shall indemnify and hold the county harmless from any and all costs or expenses
thereon, including attorney fees and court costs related thereto.
(Agreement signed 1-12-2016)
§ 90.41 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Each party will maintain liability insurance coverage for injuries or
damages to the person or property of the other party or any third party caused
or related to that party’s participation in the use and operation of the animal
control facility as stated herein.
(Agreement signed 1-12-2016)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.07 or
90.20 through 90.24, for which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $750.
   (C)   Failure to comply with §
90.04 is a violation for which such person shall pay a penalty of $25 for first
violation, $50 for second violation occurring within any 12-month period and
$100 for the third and each subsequent violation within any 12-month period. A
dog found running at large to the provisions of this chapter a second or
subsequent time must be spayed or neutered within seven business days at the
owner’s expense after being reclaimed unless already spayed or neutered.
   (D)   The owner shall pay into the Animal Control Fund an additional
impoundment fee as prescribed by the Board as a penalty for the first offense
and for each subsequent offense of violating §
90.05: $25 for the first offense; $35 for the second offense; $45 for the third
offense; and $55 for the fourth offense and each successive time.
   (E)   If the owner of a dog does not comply with the provisions of §
90.20, the owner will be issued a $50 ticket and the dog will be impounded.
(Agreement entered into 1-12-2016; Ord. passed 9-14-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Authority, counties, see 55 ILCS 5/5-1071.1
   Source, animals, see 510 ILCS 5/15
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Unlawful display of fireworks
   
91.03   Pyrotechnic displays
   
91.04   Consumer displays
   
91.05   Adoption by reference
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.1 to 1.3G FIREWORKS. Those fireworks used for professional outdoor
displays and classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334 or UN0335 by the United
States Department of Transportation under 49 C.F.R. § 172.101.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition and labeling regulations of the U.S. Consumer Products
Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
classified as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States Department of
Transportation under 49 C.F.R. § 172.101. CONSUMER FIREWORKS shall not include
snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as “party
poppers”, “booby traps”, “snappers”, “trick matches”, “cigarette loads” and
“auto burglar alarms”; sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other
devices in which paper or plastic caps containing 0.25 grains or less of
explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy
pistol paper or plastic caps that contain less than 0.20 grains of explosive
mixture; the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY or CONSUMER DISPLAY. The detonation, ignition or
deflagration of consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible effect.
   CONSUMER OPERATOR. An adult individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup and discharge of the consumer fireworks display and who has completed the
training required in 425 ILCS 35/2.2.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. 1.3G or special effects fireworks or as further defined
in the Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 227.
   LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR. An individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup and discharge of the pyrotechnic display and who is licensed pursuant to
the Pyrotechnic Operator Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 227.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, company,
consortium, joint venture or commercial entity.
   PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY. The detonation, ignition or deflagration of display
fireworks or flame effects to produce visual or audible effects of a
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged, and as may be further defined in the Pyrotechnic
Operator Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or allow to be displayed
consumer fireworks and/or display fireworks in the unincorporated areas of the
county without a permit.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)
§ 91.03 PYROTECHNIC DISPLAYS.
   (A)   Pyrotechnic displays of display fireworks in the unincorporated areas
of the county shall be permitted upon compliance with the following conditions.
      (1)   All persons shall file an application for a pyrotechnic display
permit at least 15 days in advance of the date of the pyrotechnic display.
      (2)   The application for a pyrotechnic display permit shall contain
identifying information for the person sponsoring the display, the exact
location of the display, the exact date and time of the display, and
identifying information for the individual who is the licensed lead pyrotechnic
operator supervising the display.
      (3)   The application shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance
from an insurance company licensed to do business in the state evidencing a
minimum of $1,000,000 in liability coverage.
      (4)   The application shall also be accompanied by a current and valid
copy of the lead pyrotechnic operator’s license.
      (5)   The application shall also be accompanied by a written approval
letter or permit issued by the Chief of the Fire Department providing fire
protection coverage to the area of the display, or his or her designee, in
accordance with state law.
      (6)   After the permit has been granted, the possession, use and display
of display fireworks shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted
hereunder shall be transferable.
      (7)   No permit shall be required for supervised displays of state or
county fair associations.
      (8)   Applicant shall pay a fee in the amount of $25 plus a Clerk’s fee
in the amount of $20 to the County Clerk.
   (B)   Provided that the application requirements have been met by the
applicant, a pyrotechnic fireworks display permit shall be issued by the County
Clerk.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)
§ 91.04 CONSUMER DISPLAYS.
   (A)   All persons shall file an application for a consumer display permit at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the consumer display.
      (1)   The application for a consumer display permit shall contain
identifying information for the person sponsoring the display, the exact
location of the display, the exact date and time of the display, and
identifying information for the consumer operator handling the display who
shall have received training from a consumer fireworks training class approved
by the office of the State Fire Marshal.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a certificate of insurance
from an insurance company licensed to do business in the state evidencing a
minimum of $100,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
      (3)   The application shall also be accompanied by a current and valid
copy of written proof that the consumer operator handling the display has
received training from a consumer fireworks training class approved by the
office of the State Fire Marshal.
      (4)   The application shall also be accompanied by a written approval
letter or permit issued by the Fire Chief providing fire protection coverage to
the area of the display, or his or her designee, in accordance with state law.
      (5)   The applicant shall also be subject to a criminal background check
as a condition of issuing a permit.
      (6)   After the permit has been granted, the possession, use and display
of display fireworks shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit granted
hereunder shall be transferable.
      (7)   The applicant shall pay a fee in the amount of $25 plus a Clerk’s
fee in the amount of $20 to the County Clerk .
   (B)   Provided that the application requirements have been met by the
applicant, a consumer fireworks display permit shall be issued by the County
Clerk.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)
§ 91.05 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The rules and regulations, as may from time to time be amended, for the
administration of the Pyrotechnic Use Act (425 ILCS 35/0.01 et. seq.) by the
State Fire Marshal, including, but not limited to, National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) 1123 guidelines for outdoor displays, NFPA 1126 guidelines
for proximate audience displays, audience proximity distances for consumer
display fireworks and the list of approved consumer fireworks are adopted
herein by reference as if set out in length herein.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty offense punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2007)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Declaration of policy
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws, in order that the safety and general welfare, peace and health
of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the county to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless
of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the county that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the county, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability in
the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2015)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes any building, structure or portion thereof,
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building and structure or
housing accommodations within the corporate limits of the county.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2015)
§ 92.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning, any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other persons, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the county:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
county or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale of the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence, or anticipated presence, of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located; and
      (7)   For any owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of the proposed buyer or tenant.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,000.
   (B)   Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   This section shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the
county to specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-9-2015)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Nuisance defined
   
93.04   Abatement procedures
   
93.05   Conflict
   
93.06   Jurisdiction
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is created to regulate and abate public nuisances.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2006)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Cattle, swine, horses, mules, donkeys, sheep, dogs, cats, goats,
rabbits or any other animal, and chickens, turkeys, geese, pigeons, doves,
ducks or other fowl, any reptile including snakes, lizards or turtles.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of Environmental Health of the County Health
Department or his or her designated agent.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any condition which may pose a potential threat to public
safety and health.
   STANDARD FARMING PRACTICE. Any agricultural practice which is recognized as
one in wide and general usage for the preparation, growing, harvesting and
storing of agronomic commodities, or for the production of farm animals.
   WEEDS. Any plant defined in the Illinois Compiled Statutes as a primary or
secondary noxious weed, implanted brush or any unmanaged grass that exceeds one
foot in height.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2006)
§ 93.03 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   The following, except in conjunction with standard farming practices, are
hereby declared public health nuisances when affecting the health and well
being of persons residing with the county:
   (A)   To cause the carcass of any animal, or any offal, manure, trash,
sewage discharge, rubble, filthy or putrid substance, or any other offensive or
annoying substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place, public
or private, to the prejudice of others;
   (B)   To throw or deposit any offal, manure, sewage, garbage, trash, litter
or other offensive matter, or the carcass of any animal in any watercourse,
lake, pond, spring, well, street or public thoroughfare;
   (C)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake;
   (D)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (E)   Ponds and pools of stagnant water that pose a potential breeding place
for mosquitoes. Ponds or waterways related to standard farming practices are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter;
   (F)   All growths of weeds situated on public or private property;
   (G)   Dense smoke, noxious or annoying fumes and odors, vapors, gas, dust,
soot, cinders or other airborne particles in unreasonable or toxic quantities.
The presence of airborne dust or odors related to standard farming practices is
exempt from the provisions of this chapter;
   (H)   All buildings, walls or other structures which have been damaged by
fire or have become dilapidated, rundown or decayed and are so situated as to
endanger the safety of the public, and or provide a harborage for rodents,
insects or other like vermin or pests;
   (I)   To cause a derelict automobile, truck or other like vehicle of
conveyance to remain on any public or private property, except in licensed
salvage yards. A DERELICT AUTOMOBILE, TRUCK OR OTHER LIKE VEHICLE OF CONVEYANCE
shall be defined as that which is not currently licensed and not in mechanical
condition for operation, and is not kept under suitable cover or adequately
concealed from public view. An exception to this chapter shall be provided to
members of the United States armed forces who are stationed on duty outside of
the state and did not have the opportunity to make application or renew the
license and registration of the vehicle in a timely manner;
   (J)   Any human-made hole, cistern, well or depression on any property,
public or private, which may endanger the health and safety of the public;
   (K)   Any deposit of discarded lumber, trash, building material, rubble or
any other material on any public or private property, which may endanger the
health and safety of the public;
   (L)   Any structure, or any collection of material or refuse on public or
private property where rats, flies or other like vermin and pests may exist or
breed;
   (M)   To maintain any kennel, stable, barn, house, coop, pen, yard or other
area or structure of confinement where animals, including pets, are kept in an
unsanitary condition whereupon an odor or insect nuisance is created; and
   (N)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the City of Jerseyville to
possess, distribute or use 1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole,
cannabicyclohexaneoi, JWH-108, JWH-073 and HU-210 or any product containing any
of these chemical components or derivatives, commonly known as “K2" or “spice”,
a synthetic version of marijuana, hereinafter collectively referred to as “K2".
(Ord. passed 3-14-2006; Ord. passed 11-9-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ABATEMENT PROCEDURES.
   Prior to the opening of a complaint file on a condition of a public
nuisance, a formal complaint must be filed with the County Health Department.
   (A)   In matters related to formal complaints of public nuisances,
inspection assignments shall be made by the Health Officer of the County
Department of Health.
   (B)   (1)   In matters related to public nuisance complaints, all necessary
steps shall be taken to adequately investigate and seek a mediated resolution
of the situation whereby a reasonable period of time shall be provided to the
respondent party to correct the violation of the chapter. If a condition of a
public nuisance is found to exist, a reasonable period of time of not less than
seven days, or more than 45 days shall be given to the respondent party to
correct the violation of the chapter.
      (2)   If, however, it is determined that the condition of nuisance
constitutes an immediate and serious threat to the public health and safety of
the population, the Health Officer shall have the authority to issue an
immediate abatement order.
   (C)   If a person notified to abate a nuisance condition shall neglect or
refuse to comply with the requirements of such a notice within the specified
time, the Health Officer may, at his or her discretion, take the necessary
action to abate the condition through the filing of a report with the County
State’s Attorney for the purpose of enforcement of this chapter through the
Circuit Court of the county. The cost of any abatement action shall be
collected from the party creating the nuisance, or be added to the taxes on the
property on which the nuisance condition is situated, as well as imposition of
any penalty or fine.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2006)
§ 93.05 CONFLICT.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with a provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety, health or related code
or ordinance, existing on the effective date of this chapter, the provision
which establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the
health and safety of the people shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2006)
§ 93.06 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter is applicable only outside the corporate limits of a city,
village or incorporated town in the county.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2006)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any portion of this
chapter shall, upon conviction in the County Circuit Court, be subject to a
fine of up to $500 for each violation. Each day that such violation exists
shall constitute a separate offense. This county may also seek injunctive
relief for an order compelling abatement of the violation. All monies collected
from fines under this chapter shall go to the General Fund of the county for
use to defray the county and Health Department costs of investigating and
abating nuisances as defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Violation of §
93.03(N) by possession, distribution or use of K2 or said products shall be
punishable by a fine of up to $100 and incarceration of up to 30 days in jail
for the first offense, and up to $750 and up to 30 days in jail for the second
and each subsequent offense.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2006; Ord. passed 11-9-2010)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   RAFFLES
      
111.   FOOD SANITATION
      
112.   FARMER’S MARKETS
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: RAFFLES
Section
   
110.01   General licensing
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Ineligible businesses
   
110.04   Restrictions
   
110.05   Supervision
   
110.06   Records
   
110.07   Gambling
   
110.08   Intergovernmental agreements
§ 110.01 GENERAL LICENSING.
   Pursuant to 230 ILCS 15/2 et seq., the following system for the licensing of
organizations to operate raffles in the county is as follows.
   (A)   The application must be signed by the president or executive director
or head of the entity applying for the same.
   (B)   The duration of the license shall be limited to one year or less,
depending on the type of raffle and frequency.
   (C)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
license in a single raffle shall not exceed $100,000.
   (D)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed $100.
   (E)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
is 364 days.
   (F)   The fee for each license is $10.
   (G)   Licenses issued pursuant to this section shall be valid for one raffle
or for a specified number of raffles to be conducted during a specified period
not to exceed one year and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of
this act.
   (H)   Upon written application received by the County Clerk, the
Chairpersonof the County Board shall, within 30 days of receipt of said
application, either grant or deny said license.
   (I)   This chapter only applies to areas outside of the corporate limits of
any city, town or village located in the county, unless said city, town or
village, pursuant to a written agreement, jointly accepts this chapter or the
system for the of licensing of organizations to operate raffles within these
corporate boundaries.
   (J)   Authorized organizations conducting an authorized bingo may also
conduct a raffle when the winner is limited to a person playing bingo and said
raffle may be limited to bingo players only.
   (K)   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans’ organizations that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five years immediately before making application for a license
and which have had during that entire five-year period a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a non-profit fundraising
organization that the licensing authority determines is organized for the sole
purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group
of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident or disaster.
   (L)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct raffles or chances
without having first obtained a license therefor pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   The license and application for license must specify the area or
areas within the county in which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the
time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued, the time of
determination of winning chances and the location or locations at which winning
chances will be determined.
      (3)   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not-for-profit character of the prospective licensee organization, signed
by the presiding officer of that organization.
(Res. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses
who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and
civic interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE. An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit
an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL. An organization or organization or institution organized and
operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by
methods common to schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably
in their scope and intensity with the course of study presented in tax-
supported schools.
   FRATERNAL. An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as, to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
   LABOR. An organization composed of workers organized with the objective or
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-
for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
   RELIGIOUS. Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS. An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit.
(Res. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 110.03 INELIGIBLE BUSINESSES.
   The following are ineligible for any license under this chapter:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   (D)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (A),
(B) or (C) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which
such a person is active or employed;
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not; and
   (F)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (A), (B) or
(C) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as
defined in this chapter.
(Res. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 110.04 RESTRICTIONS.
   The conducting of raffles is subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person, except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization,
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   (F)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
(Res. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 110.05 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the
supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization.
   (B)   (1)   The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of an amount
determined by the County Clerk in favor of the organization conditioned upon
his or her honesty in the performance of his or her duties.
      (2)   Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the County Clerk not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation.
The County Clerk and Board Chairperson may waive this bond requirement.
(Res. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 110.06 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same non- profit
organization pursuant to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue
of the state, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expenses and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the County Clerk,
its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the
distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this chapter.
   (D)   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Res. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 110.07 GAMBLING.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than
raffles as provided for herein.
(Res. passed 7-11-1995)
§ 110.08 INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The County Board Chairperson is hereby authorized to enter into
intergovernmental agreements with any municipality which desires to have these
or any successor regulations enforced within that municipality.
   (B)   (1)   The City of Jerseyville hereby authorizes the county to enforce
this chapter as adopted or as amended in the future within the limits of the
City of Jerseyville.
      (2)   The county hereby agrees to enforce said chapter within the city
limits of Jerseyville pursuant to the city’s stated authorization.
      (3)   Either party may terminate this agreement for any reason by giving
the other 30 days’ written notice.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City of Jerseyville from adopting
its own raffle ordinance at any time, the adoption of which shall automatically
terminate this agreement.
(Res. passed 7-11-1995)
CHAPTER 111: FOOD SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption by reference
   
111.02   Definitions
Permit Requirements
   
111.15   Permit requirements
   
111.16   Permit issuance
   
111.17   Permit length
   
111.18   Permit renewal
   
111.19   Permit updates
   
111.20   Permit suspension
   
111.21   Permit revocation
   
111.22   Permit classifications
   
111.23   Permit fees
   
111.24   No valid permit
   
111.25   Embargo and condemnation
   
111.26   Employee health
   
111.27   Construction and remodeling
Administration and Enforcement
   
111.40   Inspection schedule
   
111.41   Inspection report
   
111.42   Right of entry
   
111.43   Hearings before the Health Officer
   
111.44   Hearing before the County Health Department Committee
   
111.45   Re-inspection fees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   In addition to those provisions set forth herein, this chapter hereby
adopts by reference the current edition and subsequent revisions of the
following:
      (1)   State Department of Public Health Food Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 750
and the most current version of the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) Food
Code adopted by Illinois;
      (2)   Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, 410 ILCS 625;
      (3)   Bed and Breakfast Act, 50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.; and
      (4)   Jersey County Health Department Food Program Compliance and
Enforcement Policy.
   (B)   Three copies of each shall be on file with the office of the County
Clerk.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or ordinary and usual
sense, except where used in a technical sense or where context or the intent of
the County Board indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULTERATED. The condition of any food:
      (1)   If it bears or contains any poisonous or deleterious substance in a
quantity which may render it injurious to health;
      (2)   If it bears or contains any added poisonous or deleterious
substance for which no safe tolerance has been established by regulation or
more than such tolerance of one that has been established;
      (3)   If it consists in whole or in part of any filthy, putrid or
decomposed substance or it is otherwise unfit for human consumption;
      (4)   If it has been processed, prepared, packed or held under unsanitary
conditions whereby it may have been contaminated with filth or whereby it may
have been rendered injurious to health;
      (5)   If it is in whole or in part the product of a diseased animal or
animal which has died otherwise than by slaughter; or
      (6)   If its containers are composed in whole or in part of any poisonous
or deleterious substance which may render the contents injurious to health.
(410 ILCS 620/10)
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms
for rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a 12-month period; meals may
be provided to the guests only as allowed by the Bed and Breakfast Act (50 ILCS
820); this term shall not include motels, hotels, boarding homes or food
service establishments.
(50 ILCS 820/2.a)
   FOOD. Any raw, cooked, or processed edible substance, ice, beverage, or
ingredient used or intended for use or sale in whole or in part for human
consumption, or chewing gum.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   An operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves, vends food
directly to the consumer, or otherwise provides human consumption, such as a
restaurant, satellite or catered feeding location, catering operation if the
operation provides food directly to a consumer or to a conveyance used to
transport people, market, vending location, conveyance used to transport
people, institution or food pantry; and relinquishes possession of food to a
consumer directly, or indirectly, through a delivery service such as home
delivery of grocery orders or restaurant takeout orders, or delivery service
that is provided by common carriers. (77 Ill. Adm. Code 750)
      (2)   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT includes:
         (a)   An element of the operation, such as transportation vehicle or a
central preparation facility, that supplies a vending location or satellite
feeding location, unless the vending or feeding location is permitted by the
regulatory authority; and
         (b)   An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location. This inclusion applies regardless
of where consumption is on or off the premises and where there is a charge for
food.
      (3)   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT does not include:
         (a)   An establishment that offers only prepackaged foods that are not
time/temperature controlled for safety;
         (b)   A produce stand that only offers whole, uncut fresh fruits and
vegetables;
         (c)   A food processing plant, including those that are located on the
premises of a food establishment;
         (d)   A kitchen in a private home, such as a small family daycare
provider or a bed and breakfast operation as defined in the Bed and Breakfast
Act that prepares and offers food to guest;
         (e)   A private home that receives catered or home delivered food; a
closed family function where food is prepared or served for individual family
consumption; or
         (f)   A cottage food operation. (77 Ill. Adm. Code 750.10)
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Jersey County Health Department.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT COMMITTEE. Three members of the Jersey County Board of
Health.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Director of Environmental Health at Jersey County Health
Department or his or her authorized representative.
   MISBRANDED. The presence of any written, printed or graphic matter upon or
accompanying food or containers of food which is false or misleading.
   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A vehicle-mounted food establishment designed and
operated to be readily movable.
   NOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. Those organizations recognized as such pursuant
to the laws of the state. This definition does not include organizations in
possession of any annual liquor license (not a special event license) or a
state sales tax number for commercial purposes (not tax exempt numbers).
   PERMIT HOLDER. Anyone or his agents applying to license a food service
establishment, retail food store, mobile food establishment, or temporary food
establishment pursuant to this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, co-partnership, company,
corporation, trustee, lessee, receiver, association, municipality or any
political subdivision or department thereof, or any other entity, or its agent.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food service establishment that operates at
a fixed location for three or more than 14 consecutive days but less than 14
consecutive days in connection with a single event or celebration.
   TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD (FORMERLY “POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS
FOOD” (PHF)).
      (1)   TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD means a food that requires
time/temperature control for safety (TCS) to limit pathogenic microorganisms’
growth or toxin formation.
      (2)   TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY includes:
         (a)   An animal food that is raw or heat-treated; a plant food that is
heat-treated or consists of raw seed sprouts, cut melons, cut leafy greens, cut
tomatoes or mixtures of cut tomatoes that are not modified in a way so that
they are unable to support pathogenic microorganisms growth or toxin formation,
or garlic-in-oil mixtures that are not modified in a way so that they are
unable to support pathogenic microorganisms growth or toxin formation; and
         (b)   Except as specified in division (3)(d) below of this definition,
a food that because of the interaction of its Aw and pH values is designated as
product assessment required (PA).
      (3)   TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL for safety food does not include:
         (a)   An air-cooled hard boiled egg with shell intact, or an egg with
shell intact that is not hard boiled, but has been pasteurized to destroy all
viable salmonellae;
         (b)   A food is an unopened hermetically sealed container that is
commercially processed to achieve and maintain commercial sterility under
conditions of non-refrigerated storage and distribution;
         (c)   A food that because of its pH or Aw value, or interaction of Aw
and pH values, is designated as a non-TCS food;
         (d)   A food that is designated as product assessment required (PA) in
Table A or B (most current FDA Food Code) of this definition and has undergone
a product assessment showing that the growth or toxin formation of pathogenic
microorganisms that are likely to occur in that food is precluded due to:
            1.   Intrinsic factors including added or natural characteristics
of the food such as preservatives, antimicrobials, humectants, acidulants or
nutrients;
            2.   Extrinsic factors including environmental or operational facts
that affect the food such as packaging, modified atmosphere such as reduced
oxygen packaging, shelf life and use, or temperature range of stand and use; or
            3.   A combination of intrinsic and extrinsic factors.
         (e)   A food that does not support the growth or toxin formation of
pathogenic microorganisms in accordance with one of the divisions (3)(a)
through (3)(d) above of this definition even though the food may contain a
pathogenic microorganism or chemical or physical contaminant at a level
sufficient to cause illness or injury.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 111.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food service
establishment, retail food store or temporary food establishment, within the
county, who does not possess a valid permit issued by the County Health
Department. Only a person who complies with the requirements of this subchapter
shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit. The permit shall not be
transferred from one person to another person, from one food establishment to
another, or from one type to another if the food operation changes the type of
operation specified in the application and the change is not approved. A valid
permit shall be posted in every food establishment so as to be clearly visible
to all customers. A valid permit is one that is not suspended, revoked, or
expired.
   (B)   The following establishments shall be exempt from the provision of
this chapter:
      (1)   Establishments which have only non-perishable and/or non-time/
temperature control for safety food and whose principle order of business is
not to sell food for human consumption.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a food service establishment, retail
food store, mobile food establishment or temporary food establishment must
comply with existing Jersey County Zoning Provisions, where applicable, and
shall make written application for a permit on forms provided by the Health
Department with a $25 plan review fee. An applicant shall apply for a permit at
least 14 calendar days before the date planned for opening a food
establishment.
   (B)   A permit applicant or permit holder shall submit to the Health Officer
properly prepared plans and specifications for review and approval before the
construction of a food establishment, the conversion of an existing structure
for use as a food establishment, the remodeling of a food establishment or a
change of type of food operation if the Health Officer determines that plans
and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance with this code.
   (C)   To qualify for a permit an applicant shall:
      (1)   Be an owner of the food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of the “Illinois Department of Public
Health Food Service Sanitation Code,” 77 Ill. Adm. Code 750 and the most
current version of the FDA Food Code adopted by Illinois;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the food establishment and to provide
required information on the permit application; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.17 PERMIT LENGTH.
   The permit length for food service establishments, mobile food
establishments, and retail food stores shall be issued annually by the Health
Officer beginning on the first day of the month following the effective date of
this chapter. Permits issued after this date, but within the next 12-month
period, shall have their permit fee pro-rated. The Health Department has seven
business days to issue a permit or request more information.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.18 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   Annual renewal of permits shall be required for continued operation of
the establishment. Any person desiring to renew a permit shall make a written
application on forms provided by the Health Department.
   (B)   All permit fees for the annual renewal of permits are due January 31
of the calendar year. Persons failing to submit the appropriate fee and renewal
application by the above renewal due date shall be assessed a past due payment
penalty fee of $50 per week and the appropriate permit fee. Failure to submit
the total fee and application by the above-described renewal date may result in
a lapse of the permit.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.19 PERMIT UPDATES.
   (A)   The permit holder has an affirmative and continuing requirement to
update the original and all renewal applications. As a result, the permit
holder must inform the Health Officer of any changes in the information listed
in these applications within 30 days.
   (B)   Failure to comply with this section’s requirements or knowingly
furnishing false information on the original or renewal applications shall be
grounds for immediate suspension or revocation of any permit issued pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.20 PERMIT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Permit for food service establishments, retail food stores, mobile
food establishments or temporary food establishments may be suspended by the
Health Officer upon notice to this permit holder of same. Reasons for
suspending the permit include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter after
notification by the Health Officer;
      (3)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter within the
time established by the Health Officer;
      (4)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the Health Officer
access to the permit holders’ building or records;
      (5)   Failure to update the original and renewal applications, as
required by this chapter;
      (6)   Knowingly furnishing false information on the original or renewal
applications; or
      (7)   Allows serious or repeated code violations to remain uncorrected
beyond the time frames for correction approved, directed, or ordered by the
Health Officer.
   (B)   Upon determining that a suspension is appropriate, the Health
Department shall advise the permit holder in writing, of the intended
suspension. The notice shall be delivered in person by the Health Department or
sent via certified mail. The permit holder may make a written request for a
hearing with the Health Officer within seven calendar days before imposition of
the period of suspension according to the procedures set out in the Hearing
Procedures section.
   (C)   Permits for food service establishments, retail food stores, or
temporary establishments may be suspended by the Health Officer without notice
to the permit holder when, in the judgement of the Health Officer, a condition
exists that will result in an imminent health hazard to the public.
   (D)   Upon deciding that a suspension without notice is appropriate, the
Health Officer shall immediately, without warning or notice, advise the permit
holder of said condition and all food service operations shall be immediately
eliminated.
   (E)   If operations are discontinued and the permit is suspended, the permit
holder shall obtain approval from the Health Officer before resuming
operations.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.21 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits for food service establishments, retail food stores, mobile
food establishments or temporary food establishments may be revoked by the
Health Officer upon notice to the permit holder of same. Reasons for suspending
the permit include, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Serious violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Repeatedly failing to comply with the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Interference with the Health Officer in the performance of his or
her duties, including, but not limited to, failure to allow the Health Officer
access to the permit holder’s building or records;
      (4)   Failure to update the original and renewal applications, as
required by this chapter;
      (5)   Knowingly furnishing false information on the original or renewal
applications;
      (6)   Failure to apply for re-inspection within 30 days of the end of a
suspension period imposed for violations of this provisions of this chapter;
and
      (7)   When the continuous operation of the business has lapsed for over
90 days.
   (B)   Upon determining that a revocation is appropriate, the Health Officer
shall advise the permit holder in writing. The notice shall be delivered in
person by the Health Officer or sent via certified mail. The permit holder may
make a written request for a hearing, within seven calendar days upon receiving
request, with the Health Officer before imposition of the revocation according
to the procedures set out in the Hearing Procedure section.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.22 PERMIT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The Health Department shall annually conduct a category assessment for every
food service establishment, retail food store, and mobile food establishment
operating in the county, pursuant to the local health protection grant rules
established by the State Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.23 PERMIT FEES.
   Annual permit fees may be assessed on each permitted establishment and
collected by the Health Officer and deposited into the Health Department Fund.
Fees shall be based on a schedule determined by the County Board of Health.
Permit fees shall be non-refundable once a permit has been issued by the Health
Officer.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.24 NO VALID PERMIT.
   When a food service establishment, retail food store, or mobile food
establishment is in operation with no valid permit, a fine of $250 shall be
assessed and the facility closed until a valid permit is obtained.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023) Penalty, see §  
111.99
§ 111.25 EMBARGO AND CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   Food may be examined or sampled by the Health Officer to determine
freedom from adulteration or misbranding. The Health Officer may condemn or
embargo (detain) equipment or food when he has probable cause to believe that
any food or piece of equipment may be unwholesome, unfit for use, or an
imminent health hazard exists. The Health Officer may issue an embargo (hold
order) to a permit holder or a person who owns or controls the food without
warning, notice of a hearing, or a hearing on the hold order, or such
conditions include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Food that has been adulterated;
      (2)   Food that has been misbranded or originated from an unapproved
source;
      (3)   Any TCS food found to be in the optimal temperature range for the
growth of pathogenic foodborne bacteria as defined in the Illinois Department
of Public Health Food Service Sanitation Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 750 and the
most current version of the FDA Food Code adopted by Illinois;
      (4)   Where equipment used in the preparation of food products is found
to be in a state of disrepair, unsafe, unsanitary or unsuitable for use in the
preparation, display or service of food; and
      (5)   If food is contaminated because of fire, flood, sewage backup,
power outage, or imminent health hazard.
   (B)   If operations are discontinued and the permit is suspended, the permit
holder shall obtain approval from the Health Officer before resuming
operations.
   (C)   Condemned or embargoed food, food containers or equipment may be
suitably stored by the permit holder unless said storage would pose a risk to
the public health. If a risk exists, immediate destruction shall be ordered by
the Health Officer, or voluntary destruction may be accomplished by the permit
holder. If the permit holder refuses to destroy the condemned food, food
containers, or equipment, the same shall be held under embargo until they have
been proved satisfactory for human consumption by a certified laboratory at the
expense of the permit holder.
   (D)   No person shall remove or alter condemnation or embargo order, notice
or tag placed on food, food containers or equipment by the Health Officer. Said
food, food containers or equipment shall not be relabeled, replaced,
reprocessed, repackaged, altered, disposed of, destroyed or placed back in
service without the permission of the Health Officer, except on order by a
court of competent authority. The permit holder may make a written request for
a hearing with the Health Officer before imposition of condemnation according
to the procedures set out in §
111.43.
   (E)   Hold order notice shall:
      (1)   State the food subject to the order may not be used, sold, moved
from the food establishment, or destroyed without a written release of the
order from the Health Officer;
      (2)   State the specific reasons for placing the food under the hold
order with reference to the applicable provisions of the ordinance and the
hazard or adverse effect created by the observed condition;
      (3)   Completely identify the food subject to the hold order by the
common name, the label information, a container description, the quantity,
Health Officer’s tag or identification information, and location;
      (4)   State the permit holder has the right to an appeal hearing and may
request a hearing by submitting a timely request as specified under § 111.04;
      (5)   State the Health Officer may order the destruction of the food if a
timely request for an appeal hearing is not received; and
      (6)   Provide the name and address of the Health Officer representative
to whom a request for an appeal hearing may be made.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.26 EMPLOYEE HEALTH.
   (A)   The Health Officer shall act when it has reasonable cause to believe
that a food employee or conditional employee has possibly transmitted disease;
may be infected with a disease in a communicable form that is transmissible
through food; may be a carrier of infection agents that cause a disease that is
transmissible through food; or is affected with a boil, an infected wound, or
acute respiratory infection, by: securing a confidential medical history of the
food employee or conditional employee suspected of transmitting disease or
making other investigations as deemed appropriate and requiring appropriate
medical examinations, including collection of specimens for laboratory
analysis, of a suspected food employee or conditional employee.
   (B)   Based on the findings of an investigation related to a food employee
or conditional employee who is suspected of being infected or diseased, the
Health Officer may issue an order to the suspected food employee, conditional
employee, or permit holder instituting one or more of the following control
measures:
      (1)   Restricting the food employee or conditional employee;
      (2)   Excluding the food employee or conditional employee; or
      (3)   Closing the food establishment by summarily suspending a permit to
operate in accordance with § 111.06.
   (C)   Based on the findings of the investigation to control disease
transmission, the Health Officer may issue an order of Restriction and
Exclusion to a suspected food employee or the permit holder without warning,
notice of a hearing, or a hearing if the order:
      (1)   States the reason for the restriction or exclusion that is ordered;
      (2)   States the evidence that the food employee or permit holder shall
provide to demonstrate that the reasons for the restriction or exclusion are
eliminated;
      (3)   States the suspected food employee or the permit holder may request
an appeal hearing; and
      (4)   Provides the name and address of the Health Officer representative
to whom a request for an appeal hearing may be made.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.27 CONSTRUCTION AND REMODELING.
   (A)   Whenever any establishment regulated by the provisions of this chapter
is constructed or remodeled, or whenever an existing structure is converted to
use as an establishment to be regulated by this chapter, plans and
specifications for such construction, remodeling or conversion shall be
submitted to the Health Officer for review and approval before construction,
remodeling or conversion may begin.
   (B)   The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout,
arrangement, mechanical plans and construction materials of work areas, and the
type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities. The Health Officer
shall inspect the proposed establishment prior to the beginning or resumption
of operations to determine compliance with the approved plans and
specifications and the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 111.40 INSPECTION SCHEDULE.
   The Health Department shall conduct routine on-site inspections for each
food service establishment, retail food store, mobile food establishment, and
temporary food establishment operating in the county in accordance with the
guidelines established by the State Department of Public Health, 77 Ill. Adm.
Code Ch. 1, § 615. as.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.41 INSPECTION REPORT.
   Whenever an inspection of an establishment is made, the finding shall be
recorded on a standardized inspection report form pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code
750. One copy of the completed inspection report will be furnished to the
permit holder at the time of the inspection. If violations of this chapter
exist, the inspection report shall serve as official notice to the permit
holder that the establishment is in violation of the provisions of this
chapter. The completed inspection report form shall specify the violations
found by the Health Officer, and shall follow the county Health Department’s
Compliance and Enforcement Procedures.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.42 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Health Officer, after proper identification, shall have access at
any reasonable time to any establishment regulated by this chapter. REASONABLE
TIME for the purpose of this section shall always mean the establishment is
open to the public. The Health Officer shall be permitted to examine all areas
and records of the establishment, which are necessary for their inspection or
investigation.
   (B)   Denial of access as herein provided shall be deemed as interference by
the Health Officer in the performance of their duties, including denial of
access to the permit holder’s building or records. The Health Officer must
inform the permit holder that they are required to allow access to the Health
Officer and access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of their
permit to operate. If access is denied, an order issued by the Health Officer,
or an inspection order, may be obtained according to law.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.43 HEARINGS BEFORE THE HEALTH OFFICER.
   (A)   Any person or permit holder affected by any order or notice issued by
the Health Officer in connection with the enforcement of any section of this
chapter, may request a hearing before the Health Officer.
   (B)   Requests for a hearing must be within seven calendar days of service.
A response to a hearing notice or a request for hearing shall be in written
form and contain the following:
      (1)   An admission or denial of each allegation of fact;
      (2)   A statement as to whether the respondent waives the right to a
hearing; and may also contain;
      (3)   A statement of defense, mitigation, or explanation concerning any
allegation of fact; and
      (4)   A request to the Health Officer for a settlement of the proceedings
by consent agreement if the Health Officer will provide this opportunity.
      (5)   A statement indicating whether the presence of witnesses for the
Health Officer is required; and
      (6)   The name and address of the respondent’s or requester’s legal
counsel, if any.
   (C)   Unless stated elsewhere in this chapter, the Health Officer shall hold
the hearing at the time and place designated by them within 14 days from the
date on which the written request was filed.
   (D)   The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time and place
of hearing not less than five days prior to the date on which the hearing is to
be held.
   (E)   If, as a result of the hearing, the Health Officer finds that strict
compliance with the order or notice would cause undue hardship on the
petitioner, and that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by varying or withdrawing the order of notice, the
Health Officer may modify or withdraw the order of notice as a condition for
such action, may where deemed necessary, make requirements which are additional
to those prescribed in this chapter for the purpose of properly protecting the
public health.
   (F)   The Health Officer shall render a decision within ten days after the
date of the hearing, which shall be reduced to writing and placed on file in
the office of the authorized representative as a matter of public record. Any
person aggrieved by the decision of the Health Officer may seek relief
therefrom through a hearing before the County Board of Health.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.44 HEARING BEFORE THE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT COMMITTEE.
   (A)   If as a result of facts elicited as a result of the hearing, the
Health Department Committee finds that strict compliance with the decision of
the Health Officer would cause undue hardship of the petitioner, and that the
public health would be adequately protected and substantial justice done by
granting a currency from the decision of the Health Officer, the Health
Department Committee may grant a currency and as a condition for such variance,
may, where it deems necessary, make requirements which are additional to those
prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   The Health Department Committee shall render a decision within 30 days
after the date of the hearing which shall be reduced to writing and placed on
file in the office of the Health Officer and a copy thereof shall be served on
this petitioner personally or be delivered to the petitioner by certified mail.
A transcript of the record shall be provided at the expense of the person
requesting the hearing. All witnesses called shall be required to testify under
oath. An appeal from a decision of the Health Department Committee may be made
to the Circuit Court of the county, pursuant to the Illinois Administrative
Review Act, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.45 RE-INSPECTION FEES.
   Effective May 1, 2010, a food service establishment, retail food
establishment and/or a bed and breakfast shall be assessed a noncompliance
penalty fee for the second re-inspection of a violation and an additional
noncompliance penalty fee for all subsequent re-inspection performed to
determine compliance with this chapter. A noncompliance fee schedule shall be
determined by the County Health Department Board.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Health Officer may seek to enforce the provisions of this chapter
and its orders by instituting quasi-criminal proceedings, quasi-civil
proceedings, or temporary or permanent injunctive relief to achieve compliance
with the provisions of this chapter or its orders as provided in law against
the permit holder or other person who violates its provisions.
   (B)   Violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by:
      (1)   A fine of not more than $100 per day for each day of non-
compliance;
      (2)   Each day that a violation remains is a separate violation; and
      (3)   The Health Officer is responsible for initiating action for non-
compliance and may seek injunctive relief in addition to fines for non-
compliance.
   (C)   Once action is initiated by the Health Officer, the county State’s
Attorney, as legal counsel to the Board of Health, shall commence action in the
Circuit Court and seek appropriate remedies at law.
(Ord. 17-2, passed 2-14-2017; Res. passed 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 112: FARMER’S MARKETS
Section
   
112.01   Authorizing sale of baked goods
§ 112.01 AUTHORIZING SALE OF BAKED GOODS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HOME KITCHEN OPERATION.
         (a)   A person who produces or packages non-potentially hazardous food
in a kitchen of that person’s primary domestic residence for direct sale by the
owner or a family member, or for sale by a religious, charitable or non-profit
organization, stored in the residence where the food is made.
         (b)   The following conditions must be met in order to qualify as a
home kitchen operation:
            1.   Monthly gross sales do not exceed $1,000;
            2.   The food is not a potentially hazardous baked food, as defined
in 410 ILCS 625/4; and
            3.   A notice is provided to the purchaser that the product was
produced in a home kitchen.
   (B)   The Department of Public Health or the health department of a unit of
local government may inspect a home kitchen operation in the event of a
complaint or disease outbreak.
   (C)   This section applies only to a home kitchen operation located in a
municipality, township or county where the local governing body has adopted an
ordinance authorizing the direct sale of baked goods as described in 410 ILCS
625/4.
   (D)   Effective July 7, 2014, the organizations listed above shall have the
right to sell items pursuant to said statute.
   (E)   The county shall have discretion to add or remove listed organizations
permitted to sell such goods.
(Res. eff. 7-7-2014)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   Authority
   
113.02   License application
   
113.03   Rules and regulations
   
113.04   Classes of licenses
   
113.05   License fees
   
113.06   Number of licenses authorized to be issued
   
113.07   Appeals process
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of an act of the General
Assembly of the State entitled “An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors” and known
as the State Liquor Control Act and the applicable provisions of said Act,
particularly the definitions of words and phrases, the qualifications of
licenses, the location and types of construction of premises and places of
business and restrictions upon operations and sale contained therein, are
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though written herein. All
rules and regulations not contained in this chapter shall be in accord with the
State Liquor Control Act.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 113.02 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   All licenses issued for the sale of alcoholic liquors shall expire
June 30 following their issuance.
   (B)   A liquor license may only be issued to persons who qualify under one
of the following:
      (1)   The applicants are residents of the county;
      (2)   The applicants are owners of the premises for which the license is
being sought; or
      (3)   The applicants are long-term leasees who provide proof of a
verified lease for not less than one year of the location the license is being
sought with documentation properly recorded with the County Recorder’s office.
   (C)   The applicant shall identify the specific location of the dispensing
and sale of liquor and/or beer by physical address and parcel number(s).
   (D)   An applicant who applies for and receives a license between July 1 and
January 1 shall pay a full year’s fee.
   (E)   An applicant who applies for and receives a license between January 1
and July 1 shall pay one-half of a year’s license fee.
   (F)   A licensee applying for an annual renewal of his or her license must
apply for and receive a renewal license prior to July 1.
   (G)   Licenses for the sale of alcoholic liquors are not transferable.
   (H)   No refunds of any license fees shall be made under any circumstances.
   (I)   These licenses only apply to unincorporated areas of the county and to
municipalities that do not issue liquor licenses.
   (J)   In the case of a partnership, the application and license requirements
shall apply to all individuals of interest in the business enterprise.
   (K)   In the event the applicant is a corporation, a certificate of “good
standing” with the Secretary of State must be provided with the initial
application, as well as a copy of the charter and by-laws, the identified
corporate officers and board of directors, corporate minutes of approval and
identification of the party or parties authorized to sign legal documents.
   (L)   At the time of application, or after the effective date of this
chapter, the applicant shall furnish proof of dram shop insurance by an state-
licensed insurance company with the liability limits required by the state and
a certificate provided with the county as an additional insured party. The term
of the insurance must be concurrent with the term of the local license issued
by the county. All licenses issued by the county will be revoked in the event
that dram shop insurance is cancelled for any reason.
   (M)   No liquor license shall be issued to any individual having a criminal
record containing a conviction of a crime with a state or federal felony
classification.
   (N)   An application for a license when applying for a transfer or creating
a new license will be subject to a fee of $500.
   (O)    A license to sell alcoholic liquors shall not be issued by the county
to any person or persons who owe any personal taxes or real estate taxes that
are delinquent. A license shall not be issued to any person or persons when
there are any personal property taxes or real estate taxes that are delinquent
on the personal property or real estate proposed to be used by the license as a
tavern or place of business to sell alcoholic liquors, even though the taxes
were assessed to a person or persons other than the applicant or applicants. No
license shall be issued to a person with active tax liens on file or who is
otherwise delinquent in the payment of taxes to the State of Illinois through
the Department of Revenue or the federal government through the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS). Neither shall a license be issued to a person or persons
with unpaid fines or costs assessed by the Circuit Court of the Seventh
Judicial Circuit of Jersey County.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021; Ord. passed 9-13-2022)  Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 113.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 shall sell, serve, give or dispense
alcoholic beverages to anyone.
   (B)   Hours of operation allowed on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday
shall be from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m., at which time the licensee or his, her or
their agent or employee shall lock all means of entrance to the premises. All
patrons must be out of the tavern room, bar or place where alcoholic liquors
are sold, and any premises adjoining thereto, by 1:15 a.m.
   (C)   Hours of operation allowed on Friday and Saturday shall be from 6:00
a.m. to 2:00 a.m., at which time the licensee or his, her or their agent or
employee shall lock all means of entrance to the premises. All patrons must be
out of the tavern room, bar or place where alcoholic liquors are sold, and any
premises adjoining thereto, by 2:15 a.m.
   (D)   Hours of operation allowed on Sunday shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 1:00
a.m. All patrons must be out of the tavern room, bar or place where alcoholic
liquors are sold, and any premises adjoining thereto, by 1:15 a.m.
   (E)   The licensee shall be responsible for the actions of his or her agents
or employees in the supervision and enforcement of these provisions.
   (F)   The exception to closing time will be that on New Year’s Eve, closing
time will be 3:00 a.m., with all patrons out of the premises and the premises
locked by the licensee, agent or employee by 3:15 a.m.
   (G)   No nudity, partial nudity or lewd behavior will be allowed in an
establishment that has a liquor license.
   (H)   No commercial activity conducted within the jurisdiction of the county
shall advertise the activity of “bring your own beer” or other alcoholic
beverages for consumption on-site where an admission fee is charged by the
owner of the property or sponsor of the event.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 113.04 CLASSES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Class 1: Tavern or restaurant license.
      (1)   For the sale of all alcoholic liquor at retail for consumption on-
premises or to sell any alcoholic liquor at retail in an original container for
consumption off-premises.
      (2)   This license provides for a “combination” license whereby taverns
have the option to sell all liquor, beer and wine for consumption on-site, as
well as package sales.
   (B)   Class 2: On-premises. For sale at retail of all alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises where sold.
   (C)   Class 3: Package sales only. Retail sales of all alcoholic liquor, not
for consumption on the premises where sold, and only in original packages or
containers.
   (D)   Class 4: Club license. For sale at retail of all alcoholic liquor, for
consumption on the premises where sold by a club.
      (1)   A CLUB is defined as a corporation organized under the laws of the
state, not for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common
object, other than the sale of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by
its members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests with a membership of not less than 100 members,
provided that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors
or other officers chosen by its members, and no member or any officer, employee
or agent of the club is paid, directly or indirectly, or receives, in the form
of a salary or other compensation, any profits from the sale of alcoholic
liquors to the members of the club, or guests of a member of the club
accompanied by a member, beyond the amount of the salary of an employee fixed
by the members of the club or by the Board of Directors or by its officers out
of the general revenue of the club.
      (2)   Sales of alcoholic liquors by a club to persons who are not members
of the club, unless accompanied by a member as the guest of said member, shall
be grounds for revocation of any liquor licenses issued to said club.
   (E)   Class 5: Temporary license for non-profit or fundraising events. Not-
for-profit organizations that are registered with the Secretary of State and
are conducting fundraising as authorized by state statute qualify for the
acquisition of a Class 5 license. Registration documentation as a not-for-
profit organization shall be provided upon application.
   (F)   Class 6: Special event. A license for short-term use that does not
extend past a term of two consecutive days. A special event license shall not
be issued for more than two events per month held at the same address and
parcel number location.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 113.05 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for licenses for a full year shall be as follows:
   (A)   Class 1 license (combination license): $1,000;
   (B)   Class 2 license (all liquor for consumption on-premises): $700;
   (C)   Class 3 license (package sales only for off-premises): $500;
   (D)   Class 4 license (club): $1.20 per members of such club as shown by
membership lists as of June 1 of each year for which license is required;
   (E)   Class 5 license for not for profit: No charge for not-for-profit
organizations that are registered with the Secretary of State and are
conducting fundraising as authorized by state statute. Registration
documentation as a not-for-profit organization shall be provided upon
application; and
   (F)   Class 6 license: $250.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 113.06 NUMBER OF LICENSES AUTHORIZED TO BE ISSUED.
 
License Class Number of Issued Licenses
Class 1       6
Class 2       6
Class 3       4
Class 4       5
Class 5       3
Class 6       3
 
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 113.07 APPEALS PROCESS.
   (A)   Within 14 days of a violation, the County Liquor Commissioner shall
make a decision on proper sanctions according to penalties listed herein.
Notice of that decision shall be sent to the licensee within 14 days of said
decision.
   (B)   A licensee may appeal any decision of the County Liquor Commissioner
by delivering a letter to the Liquor Commissioner within 14 days of the notice
of sanction, indicating his, her or their intent to appeal.
   (C)   It shall be the Liquor Commissioner’s responsibility to set an appeal
date within 30 days of the notice of appeal. The hearing shall take place
before the Liquor Commission whereby all evidence may be presented to the
Liquor Commission by the licensee or his, her or their representative, in
request that the sanction be overturned or amended.
   (D)   If the decision by the Liquor Commissioner is upheld by the Liquor
Committee, the licensee may appeal to the Circuit Court through the County
Circuit Clerk’s office.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, makes
false statements or otherwise violates any of the provisions of this chapter in
obtaining a license shall, for a first offense, be fined not less than $200,
nor more than $500, and be subject to discretionary suspension of his, her or
his, her or their liquor license.
   (B)   For a second or subsequent offense, violators may be fined not less
than $200, nor more than $1,000, or by imprisonment in the county jail of not
more than six months or by both such fine and imprisonment. In addition,
violators shall have their license revoked by the County Liquor Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 2-9-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
131.   TRUANCY
      
132.   TOBACCO
CHAPTER 130: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Unlawful possession of cannabis
   
130.02   Unlawful distribution of controlled substances
   
130.03   Unlawful possession of drug paraphernalia
Bath Salts
   
130.15   Purposes
   
130.16   Definitions
   
130.17   General prohibition
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   This section is intended to apply to possession of cannabis under ten
grams.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CANNABIS. Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any parts of the plant cannabis sativa, whether growing
or not, the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any such part of such
plant, and any compounded manufacture, sale, derivative, mixture or preparation
of derivatives, including its natural occurring or synthetically produced
ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis, but shall not include mature
stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from
seeds of such plant, any other compound manufactured, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of such mature stalks, oil, cake or the sterilized seed of such
plant which is incapable of germination.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess less than ten
grams of a substance containing cannabis in the county.
(Ord. 16-4, passed 10-11-2016; Ord. passed 4-11-2017) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL DISTRIBUTION OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   The County Board hereby declares that opiate abuse, addiction, morbidity and
mortality has created a serious public health and safety crisis in county and
is a public nuisance.
(Res. passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   The language outlined under 720 ILCS 600/3.5 is adopted, codified and
incorporated into this code of ordinances as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 17-4, passed 6-13-2017)
BATH SALTS
§ 130.15 PURPOSES.
   This subchapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the county by prohibiting the possession,
distribution or delivery of any substance containing MDPV as hereinafter
defined, it being the specific finding of the county that such substances have
a dangerous effect upon anyone using said substances and have no medicinal or
beneficial purposes.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2011)
§ 130.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DELIVER. The actual, constructive or attempted transfer from one person to
another of MDPV, whether or not there is an agency relationship, and includes a
sale.
   DISTRIBUTE. To deliver other than by administering or dispensing MDPV.
   MDPV. Includes any material, compound, mixture or preparation containing any
quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect on the central
nervous system, including their salts, isomers and salts of isomers of 3.4
Methylenedioxyprovalerone, Methylone, Mephedrone, 4-methoxymethcathinone, 4-
Fluormethcathinine and 3-Fluoromethcathinone.
   POSSESS. With the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance,
either actually or constructively in control of a substance. A person has
actual POSSESSION if he or she has the substance on his or her person or with
easy reach and convenient control. A person who, although not in actual
POSSESSION, has the power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or
control over the substance either directly or through another person or persons
is in CONSTRUCTIVE POSSESSION of it.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2011)
§ 130.17 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, distribute or deliver any
substance containing MDPV as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-10-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Cannabis.
      (1)   Generally. Any person who violates §
130.01 shall pay a fine of $200 plus court costs.
      (2)   Unlawful possession of cannabis under 21 years of age; penalties.
         (a)   First offense.
            1.   Fine of not more than $200 plus court costs; and
            2.   Six hours of community service work.
         (b)   Second offense.
            1.   Fine of not more than $200 plus costs;
            2.   Twenty hours of community service work; and
            3.   Compete drug evaluation.
         (c)   Third offense.
            1.   Fine of not more than $200 plus costs;
            2.   Thirty hours of community service work; and
            3.   Complete drug evaluation and recommended treatment.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
130.03 shall pay a fine of $200 plus court costs.
(Ord. passed 4-11-2017; Ord. 17-4, passed 6-13-2017)
CHAPTER 131: TRUANCY
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Violation
   
131.04   Enforcement
   
131.05   Operation
   
131.06   Implementation
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   Absenteeism from school by students under the age of 18 has become a
significant problem, and in many instances police records establish that
persons under the age of 18 who are frequently absent from school become
involved in offenses of vandalism, drug abuse, alcohol consumption, disorderly
conduct and other offenses constituting crimes in the state. The purpose of
this chapter is to take appropriate action to cause a reduction in absenteeism
from school by students under the age of 18.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2011)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHRONIC OR HABITUAL TRUANT. A Jersey County student between the ages of 7
and 18 years of age who is absent without valid cause from attendance for 5% or
more of the previous 180 regular attendance days in school.
   JERSEY COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT. One or more of the following school districts
situated in Jersey County, Illinois:
      (1)   Jersey Community Unit School District 100; and
      (2)   Southwestern Community Unit School District 9.
   JERSEY COUNTY STUDENT. A student under the age of 18 enrolled in one of the
Jersey County School Districts.
   PARENT/GUARDIAN. The natural, legal guardian or other person having custody
or control of a Jersey County student.
   TRUANT. A Jersey County student who is absent from attendance in school
without valid cause for such absence.
   TRUANT OFFICER. A truant officer employed by one or more of the Jersey
County School Districts, or by the Calhoun, Greene, Jersey and Jersey Regional
Office of Education, under 105 ILCS 5/3-13.
   VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE. Illness, observation of a religious holiday, death
in the immediate family, family emergency and/or other such situations beyond
the control of the Jersey County student, as determined by the Board of
Education of the Jersey County School District in which the student is
enrolled, or such other circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the
parent/guardian for the safety or health of the Jersey County student.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2011)
§ 131.03 VIOLATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any county student to be absent from
attendance, without valid cause for absence, for all or any part of a school
day in the County School District in which the county student is enrolled. It
is the responsibility of the parent/guardian who has custody or control of any
child between the ages of seven and 18 to cause that child to:
      (1)   Enroll in one of the County School Districts (thereby becoming a
county student); and
      (2)   Attend some public school in the district wherein that child/county
student resides the entire time it is in during the regular school term, and/or
any summer or other special term in which the county student may be enrolled.
   (B)   (1)   Both a county student, and that student’s parent/guardian, may
be charged and convicted with the violation of this chapter when the student
shall be found to be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   However, the payment of all applicable fines imposed against the
county student or the parent/guardian for a given violation by either the
parent/guardian or the county student shall operate to relieve the non-paying
party from any obligation to pay fines arising from the same violation.
   (C)   No conviction shall be entered or fine imposed upon any student or
parent/guardian for the violation of this chapter where such student is:
      (1)   Attending a parochial or private school for the entire time it is
in session during its regular school term; or
      (2)   Attending or otherwise participating in an alternative education or
home schooling program for the entire time such program shall be in session or
operation.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2011) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The truant officers of any county school district or of the Calhoun,
Greene, Jersey and Jersey Regional Office of Education, the Sheriff and Deputy
Sheriffs of the county, and any other law enforcement officer of any city,
village or political subdivision within the county, together with any other law
enforcement officer lawfully exercising jurisdiction within the county, are
hereby empowered to enforce this chapter by the issuance of tickets, specifying
the date and time of violation, and the County School District or enrollment of
the truant county student, and are hereby given discretion to determine whether
the violation shall be dealt with by the issuance or a written or verbal
warning or by the issuance of a ticket, and whether such ticket may be disposed
of by the payment of the minimum required fine to the Circuit Clerk of the
county, or whether a court appearance will be required.
   (B)   All tickets issued hereunder shall be delivered by the issuing officer
to the County Circuit Clerk, who shall assign to the same a case number for
each ticket and shall notify both the State’s Attorney, the issuer and the
offender of all court dates for each ticket.
   (C)   Upon the, issuance of a ticket hereunder, a violation of this chapter
shall be prosecuted by the State’s Attorney as a petty offense, pursuant to the
Illinois Code of Criminal Procedure. All tickets issued hereunder must be
prosecuted within 12 months of issuance.
   (D)   The Sheriff and Deputy Sheriffs of the county may, upon request of
parent or legal guardian, detain said truant and return him or her to the
appropriate school grounds or to a location specified by said parent or legal
guardian. Detention may only last for a reasonable amount of time for said
Sheriff or Deputy to ascertain the proper location of transport for said
truant.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2011)
§ 131.05 OPERATION.
   The terms and provisions of this chapter shall be in addition to, not in
substitution for or in replacement of, any provisions, laws or regulations
concerning truancy (including, but not limited to, 105 ILCS 5/26-7 through 5/
26-8(b), 5/26-10, and 5/26-11), except that this chapter shall supersede any
and all truancy ordinances previously enacted by the County Board.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2011)
§ 131.06 IMPLEMENTATION.
   This chapter shall be effective upon its lawful adoption by the County Board
and the Board of Education of one or more of the County School Districts. The
chapter shall be binding upon each County School District when adopted and
approved by the Board of Education for that County School District. If any one
or more of the Boards of Education of the County School Districts fail or
decline to adopt this chapter, such failure or declination shall not effect the
enforcement of the chapter within those County School Districts wherein their
Boards of Education have adopted this chapter. The chapter may also be adopted
and approved by any city or village situated within any County School District,
with the understanding that the failure or declination of any city or village
to adopt this chapter shall not effect the enforcement of this chapter if it
adopted by the County Board and the Board of Education for the County School
District within which the city or village is situated. The adoption and
implementation of the terms of this chapter shall be deemed an
intergovernmental agreement under 5 ILCS 220/3 and related statutes.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2011)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any county student violating, or parent/guardian of a county student
violating, the terms of this chapter, which shall be punished as a petty
offense, shall be subject to the following fines, not to exceed the limitations
set forth in 55 ILCS 5/5-1113 upon conviction:
      (1)   A fine of not less than $25 shall be imposed for the first
violation by a student during a given school year;
      (2)   A fine of not less than $50 shall be imposed for the second
violation by a student during a given school year; and
      (3)   A fine of not less than $100 shall be imposed for the third
violation by a student during a given school year.
   (B)   Each day, or portion thereof, upon which a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate violation, with each separate violation being subject to
a separate penalty, as provided herein.
(Ord. passed 1-14-2011)
CHAPTER 132: TOBACCO
Section
   
132.01   Sale to minors
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 SALE TO MINORS.
   (A)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase any cigarette, cigar,
smokeless tobacco, other tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative
nicotine product in any of its forms.
   (B)   No person under 18 years of age shall possess any of the products
listed in division (A) above.
   (C)   The products listed in division (A) above shall be defined as stated
in 720 ILCS 675/1(a- 9).
(Ord. passed 9-12-2023) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of §
132.01 shall be punishable by a fine of up to $100. In addition to the fine,
applicable court costs may be assessed.
(Ord. passed 9-12-2023)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS AND COMMERCIAL BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE
SYSTEMS
      
152.   DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
      
153.   STORM WATER
      
154.   MANUFACTURED HOMES
      
155.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
156.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
157.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
International Residential Code
   
150.001   Adopted
   
150.002   Revisions
International Building Code
   
150.015   Adopted
   
150.016   Amendments
International Mechanical Code
   
150.030   Adopted
   
150.031   Revisions
International Existing Building Code
   
150.045   Adopted
   
150.046   Revisions
International Fuel Gas Code
   
150.060   Adopted
   
150.061   Revisions
Illinois Energy Conservation Code
   
150.075   Adopted
   
150.076   Revisions
Life Safety Code (NFPA 101)
   
150.090   Adopted
International Fire Code
   
150.105   Adopted
   
150.106   Revisions
National Electrical Code (NFPA 70)
   
150.120   Adopted
   
150.121   Revisions
Illinois Plumbing Code
   
150.135   Adopted
International Property Maintenance Code
Article 1: Administration
   
150.150   Adopted
   
150.151   Revisions
   
150.152   General
   
150.153   Applicability
   
150.154   Department of Property Maintenance Inspection
   
150.155   Duties and powers of the Code Official
   
150.156   Approval
   
150.157   Violations
   
150.158   Notices and orders
   
150.159   Unsafe structures and equipment
   
150.160   Danger and safeguards
   
150.161   Demolition
   
150.162   Means of appeal
Article 2: Definitions
   
150.175   General
   
150.176   General definitions
Article 3: General Requirements
   
150.190   General
   
150.191   Exterior property areas
   
150.192   Handrails and guardrails
   
150.193   Rubbish and garbage
   
150.194   Extermination
Article 4: Fire Safety Requirements
   
150.205   General
   
150.206   Means of egress
   
150.207   Fire-resistance ratings
   
150.208   Fire protection systems
Article 5: Referenced Standards
   
150.220   Referenced standards
Building Permits and Purpose
   
150.235   Purpose
   
150.236   Definitions
   
150.237   Building setbacks
Wireless Telecommunication Siting and Permits
   
150.250   Purpose and intent
   
150.251   Definitions
   
150.252   Applicability
   
150.253   Application process; fees
   
150.254   Building permit approval process
   
150.255   Construction requirements
 
   
150.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee Schedule, see
Ch. 36
INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 150.001 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been, on file in the
office of the County Clerk for more than 30 days prior to the adoption of this
subchapter, being marked and designated as the International Residential Code,
2018 edition, with referenced standards including Appendices as published by
the International Code Council, together with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes prescribed in §
150.002, and is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set
out in full, as the standards, rules and regulations for the design,
construction, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of buildings and
structural appurtenances in the county. All new residential construction shall
include passive radon resistant radon construction as provided for by Illinois
Public Act 97-0953.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.002 REVISIONS.
   The following sections are hereby revised.
   (A)   Amendments: code references.
      (1)   The additions, insertions, deletions and changes set out in this
section are hereby made to the 2018 International Code Council’s International
Residential Code, as adopted by the County Board.
      (2)   Any reference in the residential code to the “building official”
shall mean the County Code Administrator and Certified Floodplain Manager.
      (3)   Any reference in the International Residential Code to the “name of
jurisdiction” shall mean the County of Jersey.
      (4)   Any reference in the International Residential Code to the “chief
appointing authority” shall mean the County Board, as prescribed by ordinance.
      (5)   Any reference in the International Residential Code to the
“Department of Building Safety” shall mean the County Code Administrator’s
office.
      (6)   Any reference in the International Residential Code to the date or
time at which the provisions of such code became applicable shall mean the
adopted date, which shall be the effective date of the ordinance from which
subchapter article is derived, being November 3, 2021, or as provided by law.
      (7)   If any provision of the International Residential Code is in
conflict with any provision of county ordinance, and any amendments thereto,
the provisions of the latter shall prevail.
   (B)   The following sections of the 2018 International Residential Code, are
hereby added, amended, revised and changed as follows.
   Chapter 1: Scope and Administration
R101.1 Title. Amended: These provisions shall be known as Jersey County and the
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings of Jersey County, Illinois,
will herein be referred to as “this code” or IRC.
   a.   Add the following sentence at the end of this section: In addition,
when other codes, ordinances, or regulations of the county impose more rigid
requirements (as determined by the County Code Administrator), such more rigid
requirements shall apply, notwithstanding any conflict with provisions of this
code.
R101.2 Scope. Amended to read as follows:
R101.2 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the construction,
alteration, movement, enlargement, and demolition of detached one- and two-
family dwellings not more than 3 stories in height with a separate means of
egress and townhouses not more than two stories above the grade plane in height
with a separate means of egress; and accessory buildings, garages, decks,
carports, pole barns (accessory or residential), grain bins or shed in
reference to R105.1 below.
   Exceptions: Modify exception #2 and adding exceptions #3 to read as follows:
   2.   Bed & Breakfast facilities providing accommodations for 5 guest rooms
or less that are also occupied as the single family residence of the proprietor
are permitted to comply with this code.
   3.   Lodge/cottages providing accommodations for 5 guests or less are
permitted to comply with this code.
R102.5 Appendices. Provisions in the appendices shall not apply unless
specifically referenced in the adopting ordinance. Adopted appendices are as
follows:
   a.   Appendix (F), Appendix (H), Appendix (J), Appendix (R), Appendix (S).
R102.7 Existing Structures. Amending: The legal occupancy of any structure
existing on the date of adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue
without change, except as is specifically covered in this code, the
International Property Maintenance Code with amendments or the International
Fire Code, or as deemed necessary by the County Code Administrator or the
Jersey County Board for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and the
public.
   Administration and Enforcement
Section R103 Department of Building Safety.
R103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. Amend: The office of the Jersey County
Code Administrator is hereby created and the official in charge thereof shall
be known as the County Code Administrator.
R103.2 Appointment. Amend: The Jersey County Code Administrator shall be
appointed by the Jersey County Board.
Duties and Powers of the Building Official
R104.6 Right of entry.
Add Rl04.6.1. In the event of a disaster such as windstorm, tornado, flood,
fire, earthquake, bomb blast or explosion, the building official is hereby
authorized to enter and inspect structures within the affected area, subject to
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. When, in the opinion of the
building official, there is imminent danger of an unsafe condition, the
building official shall take emergency measures in accordance with this code.
If the building official determines, after inspection, that a structure is
unfit, the building official shall declare it a public nuisance, cause a report
to be prepared and notify the affected parties in accordance with this code.
Section R105 - Permits.
R105.1 Required. Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, move, or demolish or contractor who desires to
construct, enlarge, alter, move, remove, convert, or demolish of a building or
structure, to erect or construct a sign or billboard of any description, to
erect certain towers, shall first make application to the County Code
Administrator and obtain any required permit.
R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Amend: Exemption from permit requirements of
this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in
any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any other laws or
ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the
following:
Building:
   1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses, and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 100
square feet.
   2.   Fences.
   3.   Retaining walls.
   4.   Water tanks.
   5.   Sidewalks and driveways.
   6.   Pools.
   7.   Siding, window awnings.
   8.   Interior redecorating.
   9.   Roof repairs.
   10.   Decks not exceeding over 25 square feet in area, that are not more
than 30 inches above grade at any point, are not attached to a dwelling do not
serve the exit door required by Section 311.4.
R105.2.1. Emergency repairs. Delete in its entirety.
Add R105.2.4 Damaged building repair. Buildings located in the determined
floodplain of Unincorporated Jersey County that are determined by the building
official to have sustained light or moderate building damage due to fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or other natural disasters shall require a building
permit for repairs. The building permit application will include construction
drawings showing the scope of work and a report prepared, sealed, signed, and
dated by an Illinois-licensed design professional stating that the building
damage is light with no structural damage. The 50% Rule for substantial damage
or substantial improvements will apply.
R105.3.2 Time limitation of application. Amended to read as: An application for
a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days
after the date of filing unless such application has been pursued in good faith
or a permit has been issued; except that the Jersey County Code Administrator
is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods
not exceeding 90 days each. If a second 90 day extension is granted a fee of
one half the original cost of the permit shall be paid before work shall
commence. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated.
R105.5 Expiration. Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work
authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or
if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of
180 days after the time the work is commenced. The building official is
authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time, for periods
not more than 90 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and
justifiable cause demonstrated.
Exception: Carports, decks, demolition, accessory buildings, grain bins, pole
barns, and detached garages must be completed within 180 days from the issuance
of the permit.
R105.8 Responsibility. Amend to read as follows: It shall be the duty of every
person who performs work for the installation or repair of a building,
structure or electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing systems to comply with the
applicable codes adopted by Jersey County.
Rl05.8.1 It shall be the duty and responsibility of every person including the
homeowner or land owner to verify the required building setbacks, subdivision
restrictions if applicable, highway and property lines, and accessibility
standards.
R106 - Construction Documents.
R106.1 Submittal documents. Amended: Submittal documents consisting of auto-cad
construction documents, detailed plans, and other data shall be submitted in
one set with each application for a permit. The Jersey County Code
Administrator is authorized to require; when conditions exist, construction
documents that shall be prepared by an Illinois licensed design engineer.
Submittal of construction documents and other required data shall be retained
by the Jersey County Code Administrator.
Section 108 - Fees.
R108.2 Schedule of Permit Fees. Amended: A permit shall not be valid until the
fees prescribed by the Jersey County Fee Schedule as adopted by the Jersey
County Board have been paid, nor shall an amendment to a permit be released
until the additional fee, if any, has been paid.
R109 - Inspections.
Add Section 109.1.2.1, Backfill inspection, to read as follows:
R109.1.2.1 Backfill inspection. Inspection made after foundation walls are
erected. Prior to backfilling the following systems or components including,
but not limited to, damp/waterproofing, subsurface drainage system, exterior
insulation and anchoring, shall be placed.
Add Section 109.1.2.2 “Concrete slab and under-floor inspection” to read as
follows:
109.1.2.2 Concrete slab and under-floor inspection. Concrete slab and under-
floor inspections shall be made after in-slab or under-floor reinforcing steel
and building plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems or service equipment,
conduit, piping, accessories and other ancillary equipment items are in place,
but before any concrete is placed or floor sheathing installed, including the
subfloor.
R108.7 Re-inspections. A re-inspection fee as set forth in an adopted fee
schedule may be assessed for each inspection or re-inspection when such portion
of work for which inspection is called is not complete or when corrections
called for are not made. This section is not to be interpreted as requiring re-
inspection fees the first time a job is rejected for failure to comply with the
requirements of this code, but as controlling a practice of calling inspections
before the job is ready for such inspection or re- inspection. Re-inspection
fees may also be assessed for the following:
   1.   When the approved plans are not readily available to the inspector;
   2.   For failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is
requested;
   3.   For deviating from plans requiring the approval of the building
official.
To obtain re-inspection, the applicant shall pay the re-inspection fee in
accordance with the fee schedule. In instances where re-inspection fees have
been assessed, no additional inspection of the work will be performed until the
required fees have been paid.
Section 110 - Certificate of Occupancy.
R110.01 Use and Occupancy. Delete Exception 2.
R110.4 Temporary occupancy. Amended as follows: The building official is
authorized to issue a temporary occupancy certificate before the completion of
the entire work covered by the permit, provided that such portion or portions
shall be occupied safely. The building official shall set a time period during
which the temporary certificate of occupancy is valid. There will be a $100.00
fee for a temporary Certificate of Occupancy and shall only be valid for 60
days. No structure or building may be occupied until the fee is paid to the
building official. The fee is non-refundable.
Section 112 - Board of Appeals.
R112.5 Fees. Add the following: A nominal appeal fee to the Board of Appeals
shall be paid as set forth in the Schedule of Fees as adopted by the Jersey
County Board. The appeal shall be valid for 180 days and is non refundable.
Section R112 - Violations.
   Chapter 2: Definitions
R202 Definitions. The following section is hereby amended by adding these terms
to read as follows:
   (a)   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure the use of which is incidental to
that of the main structure and is located on the same lot.
   (b)   BED & BREAKFAST FACILITY. A facility providing accommodations for 5 or
fewer guest that is also occupied as a single family residence by the
proprietor.
   (c)   CABIN. A structure that contains at least one habitable room for
living, sleeping, eating or cooking that is designed, arranged and intended to
be occupied by one or two occupants on a temporary basis. Cabins require a
sanitary sewage system approved by the Jersey County Environmental Health
Department.
   (d)   TOWNHOUSE (DUPLEX). A single-family dwelling unit constructed of two
or more attached units. Each unit extends from foundation to roof, not more
than 2 stories in height, with a separate means of egress, and with an open
space/yard or public way on at least two sides. Each townhouse shall be
considered a separate building with independent exterior walls and shall be
separated by a 2-hour fire-resistance-rated wall assembly.
   Chapter 3: Building Planning
Table R301.2(1) to be amended as follows:
 
Table R301.2(1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
      Wind Design       Subject to Damage              Flood
                        From                           Hazards
            Top
            o-
            grap
            hic
            effec                               Ice
            ts,   Seis                    Win   Barrie             Air
Gro         Spec  mic                     ter   r                  Free Mea n
und         ial   Desig        Fros       Desi  Under              z-   Ann
Sno w Spee  wind  n     Weath  t    Ter-  gn    lay-   NF IP FIRM  ing  ual
Load  d mph regio Cate- er-ing Line mite  Tem p ment               Inde Tem p.
            n, or gory         Dept             Requi              x
            Win                                 red
            d-
            born
            e
            debri
            s
            zone
                               40   Mod /                    4-2-
20    115   No    C     Severe in.  Hea   2     Yes    198 5 2 009 1000 50°F
                                    vy
 
Section R309 - Garages and Carports.
R309.5 Fire sprinklers. Amended as follows: Private garages may be protected by
fire sprinklers where the garage wall has been designed based on Table R302.1
(2), Footnote a. Sprinklers in garages shall be connected to an automatic
sprinkler system that complies with Section P2904. Garage sprinklers shall be
residential sprinklers or quick -response sprinklers, designed to provide a
density of .0.05 gym/ft2. Garage doors shall not be considered obstructions
with respect to fire sprinkler placement.
Section R313 - Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems.
R313.1 Townhouse automatic sprinkler systems. An automatic residential fire
sprinkler system may be installed in townhouses. An automatic residential fire
sprinkler shall be installed if any of the following conditions occur:
   1.   The townhouses are constructed in a group of more than four attached
units.
   2.   Any individual townhouse dwelling unit of a structure with four or
fewer attached townhouses has a floor area greater than 4,000 square feet on
any one story or greater than 8,000 square feet of total floor area for all
stories, excluding non-habitable areas separated from the rest of the building
by a minimum of one-hour fire-resistive construction and containing smoke or
heat detection interconnected with the dwelling unit smoke detectors.
   3.   Bed & Breakfast facilities providing accommodations for more than 5
guest rooms that are also occupied as the single family residence of the
proprietor.
   4.   Lodge/cottages that are constructed less than five (5) feet apart or
over 4000 square feet on any one story or greater than 8000 square feet of
total floor area for all stories, excluding non-habitable areas separated from
the rest of the buildings by a minimum of one-hour fire resistive construction
containing smoke or heat detection interconnected with the dwelling smoke
detectors.
   Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required when additions or alterations are made to existing townhouses that do
not have an automatic residential fire sprinkler system installed.
R313.2 One- and two- family dwellings automatic fire systems. An automatic
residential fire sprinkler system may be installed in one- and two-family
dwellings. An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be required when the
following conditions exist:
   1.   The one- or two-family dwelling has a floor area greater than 4,000
square feet on any one story or greater than 8,000 square feet of total floor
area for all stories, excluding non-habitable areas separated from the rest of
the building by a minimum of one-hour fire resistive construction and
containing smoke or heat detection interconnected with the dwelling smoke
detectors.
   Exception: An automatic residential fire sprinkler system shall not be
required when additions or alterations are made to existing one- and two-family
dwellings that do not have automatic residential fire sprinkler system
installed.
   Chapter 10: Chimneys and Fireplaces
R1005.1 Listing and clearances. Amend to read as follows: Factory-built
chimneys shall be listed and labeled and shall be installed and terminated in
accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instruction. Where, upon
inspection, listing specifications are not present or visible, combustible
materials within 18 inches of the chimney shall be protected with 5/8 inch Type
X gypsum board or equivalent.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
§ 150.015 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the office
of the County Clerk for more than 30 days prior to the adoption of this
subchapter, being marked and designated as the International Building Code,
2018 edition, as published by the International Code Council, for regulating
and governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of every building or
structure or any appurtenances connected or attached to such buildings or
structures. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms
of said Building Code on file in the office of the County Board are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
subchapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in §
150.016.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.016 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
2018 International Building Code Amendments
2018 International Building Code Amendments
Section 101: General
Section 103: Department of Building Safety
Section 104: Duties and Powers of Building Official
Section 105: Permits
Section 107: Submittal Documents
Section 109: Fees
Section 110: Inspections
Section 111: Certificate of Occupancy
Section 113: Board of Appeals
Section 114: Violations
 
101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as “Jersey County” and the 2018
International Building Code of Jersey County, Illinois, will herein be referred
to as “this code” or IBC.
Add Exception 2: Bed & Breakfast facilities providing accommodations for five
(5) guest rooms or less that are also occupied as the single family residence
of the proprietor are permitted to comply with the International Residential
Code.
Add Exception 3: Lodge/Cottages providing accommodations for three (3) guest
rooms or less are permitted to comply with the International Residential Code.
101.4.3 Plumbing. Remove International Plumbing Code and replace with the 2017
Illinois Plumbing Code.
101.4.6 Energy. Remove International Energy Conservation Code and replace with
the latest adopted version of the Illinois Energy Conservation Code as per
State Statute 20 ILCS 3125.
Section 102 Applicability.
Change section 102.6 as follows:
102.6 Existing structures. The legal occupancy of any structure existing on the
date of the adoption of this code shall be permitted to continue without
change, except as is specifically covered in this code, the Existing Building
Code, the Property Maintenance Code, the Fire Code or as deemed necessary by
the building official for the general safety and welfare of the occupants and
the public.
Administration and Enforcement
103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The office of the Jersey County Code
Administrator and Floodplain Manager is hereby created and the official in
charge and in thereof shall be known as the County Code Administrator and
Certified Floodplain Manager.
103.2 Appointment. The Jersey County Code Administrator shall be appointed by
the Jersey County Board.
Section 104 Duties and Powers of Building Official.
Change section 104.4 to read as follows:
104.4 Inspections. The building official is authorized to make all of the
required inspections, or the building official shall have the authority to
accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or individuals. Reports of
such inspections shall be in writing and certified by a responsible officer of
such approved agency or by the responsible individual. The building official is
authorized to engage such expert opinion as deemed necessary to report upon
unusual technical issues that arise, subject to the approval of the appointing
authority. The owner shall provide such special inspections at their cost as
are acquired by the building official.
Add new section as follows:
104.6.1 Disasters. In the event of a disaster such as windstorm, tornado,
flood, fire, earthquake, bomb blast or explosion, the building official is
hereby authorized to enter and inspect structures within the affected area,
subject to constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures.
When, in the opinion of the building official, there is imminent danger of an
unsafe condition, the building official shall take emergency measures in
accordance with this code. If the building official determines, after
inspection, that a structure is unfit, the building official shall declare it a
public nuisance, cause a report to be prepared and notify the affected parties
in accordance with this code.
Section 105 Permits.
105.1 Required. Amend as: Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who
desires to construct, enlarge, alter, move, remove, convert, or demolish of a
building or structure, to erect or construct a sign of any description, to
erect certain towers, shall first make application to the County Code
Administrator and obtain any required permit. Permits are required even though
the structure may be movable. Types of permits:
   1.   One-Two Family Residential Dwelling/Residential Construction (new
construction of dwelling, addition, attached garage, unattached garage,
unfinished basement, finished basement).
   2.   Commercial Building (new construction, additions).
   3.   Demolition Permits (existing structures)
   4.   Limited (accessory building, pole barn, playhouses, containers).
   5.   Decks/Carports/Gazebos/Handicap Ramps.
   6.   Signs/Billboard Permit.
   7.   Floodplain Development Permit (elevation, human-made change to real
estate, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, drilling operations, or
storage of equipment or materials).
   8.   Floodplain Minor Development Permit (improvements, repairs, accessory
building).
   9.   Stormwater Development Permit (disturbance of ground over 10,000 sq.
ft.).
   10.   Occupancy Permit (residential, commercial, or floodplain).
   11.   Platted Subdivision Application.
   12.   Cell Tower Permit.
   13.   Solar Farm Development
   14.   Permits deemed necessary by the County Board
105.1.1 Annual Permit. Delete entirely.
105.2 Work exempt from permit. Amend the following:
Building:
   1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses, and similar uses, proved the floor area does not exceed 120 square
feet.
   2.   Retaining walls.
   3.   Water tanks.
   4.   Sidewalks and driveways.
   5.   Siding/window awnings.
   6.   Interior redecorating.
   7.   Roof repairs.
105.3 Application for Permit. Prior to issuance of building permits, it is the
joint duty of the property owner, the construction contractor, and any sub-
contractor to complete and file with the building official the building permit
application and any other required documentation.
105.3.2 Time, limitation, validity and expiration of application. Permits are
valid for 180 days, if no request for inspection has occurred within the 180
days, the application is considered abandoned and no longer valid.
Extensions: One (1) extension of 90 days with no fee. A Second (2) extension of
90 days with fee of 1/2 original cost of the permit. After 12 months a new
permit application will be required at full cost of fee.
Section 107 Submittal Documents.
107.1 General. Insert energy efficiency documents required by the 2018 Illinois
Energy Conservation Code and amendments.
Section 109 Fees.
109.1 Fees. Work requiring a permit, a fee for each permit shall be paid as
required in accordance with the Permit Fee Schedule as established by the
Jersey County Board. A permit shall not be valid until the fees prescribed have
been paid. Nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional
fee has been paid. Permit fees are non-refundable.
Add new section as follows:
109.1.1 Fees other than herein prescribed. The payment of fees listed in the
Jersey County Fee schedule shall not relieve the applicant or holder of any
permit or any certificate of occupancy from the payment of other fees which
shall be prescribed by law or ordinance for inspections, plan reviews or other
privileges or requirements, both within and without the jurisdiction of the
building official.
109.3 Determination of value of project. The total value of the construction
work shall be submitted in itemized detail at the time of application for
permit, (all finish work, painting, site grading, paving, landscaping,
elevator, other permanent equipment).
Add new section as follows:
109.7 Fees waived for disaster related permits. In the event of a tornado,
earthquake, flood or any other disaster of such magnitude to activate a Federal
Disaster Declaration, the building official is authorized to waive all permit
fees normally collected by the County Code Administrator for repairs or
demolition to correct the damage caused by such disaster. These permit fees
shall be permitted to be waived for a period not to exceed six months or as
otherwise determined by the building official.
Section 10 Inspections.
110.3 Required inspections. Sections 110.3 through 110.3.10 replace “shall
make” or “shall be made” with “may make” or “may be made”.
Section 113 Board of Appeals.
113.4 Appeal fee. Insert an administrative fee for said appeal as set by the
Jersey County Board.
Section 114 Violations.
114.4 Violation of penalties. Insert a fine of not less than $50.00 and not
more than $750.00 for each violation. Each day that such violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
   Chapter 2: Definitions
Section 201 Definitions.
201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Amend to read as follows:
201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in the 2018 Illinois Energy Conservation Code, 2017 National
Electric Code (NFPA 70), or the 2017 Illinois Plumbing Code, such terms shall
have the meanings ascribed to them as in these codes.
Section 202 Definitions.
Modify:
ACCESSIBLE. A site, building, facility, or portion thereof that complies with
Chapter 11 of this code and the Illinois Accessibility Code.
CONSTRUCTION COST. The cost of all construction portions of a project,
generally based upon the sum of the labor and materials used in the performance
of the construction contract and other direct construction cost; does not
include compensation paid to the architect and consultants, the cost of the
land, right-of-way or other costs which are defined in the construction
documents as being the responsibility of the owner.
LICENSED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL. An individual who is licensed to practice their
respective design profession as defined by 225 ILCS 305/21 - Illinois General
Assembly.
PROJECT COST. The total cost of a project including professional compensation,
land cost, furnishings and equipment, financing, and other charges as well as
the construction cost.
   Chapter 10: Means of Egress
Section 1002 Maintenance and Plans. Delete entirety.
Section 1030 Emergency and Rescue.
1030.6 Emergency Escape and Rescue to read as follows:
1030.6 Emergency escapes under decks. Emergency escape windows are allowed to
be installed under decks provided the location of the deck allows the emergency
escape window to be fully opened and provides a clear path not less than 36
inches in height to an open yard or court.
Chapter 16: Structural Design
Section 1612. Insert “County of Jersey”.
Section 1612. Insert “April 2, 2009”.
Chapter 29: Plumbing Systems
Delete in its entirety.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
§ 150.030 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the office
of the County Board of the County of Jersey for more than 30 days prior to the
adoption of this subchapter, being marked and designated as the International
Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix Chapters A, Combustion Air
Openings Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs (see International Mechanical Code
Section 101.2.1, 2018 edition), as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as such in the state for regulating and governing the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
mechanical systems as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of said Mechanical Code on file in the office
of the County Board are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as
if fully set out in this subchapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.031.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.031 REVISIONS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   2018 International Mechanical Code Amendments
Section 101: General.
Section 106: Permits.
   Chapter 1: Scope and Administration
Section 101 - General.
[A] 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Mechanical Code of
Jersey County, herein after referred to as “this code”.
   Administration and Enforcement
Delete Section 106 Permits.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE
§ 150.045 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the office
of the County Code Administration for more than 30 days prior to the adoption
of this subchapter, being marked and designated as the International Existing
Building Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be
and is hereby adopted as the Existing Building Code of the county for
regulating and governing the repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition
and relocation of existing buildings, including historic buildings, as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms
of said Existing Building Code on file in the office of the County Board are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
subchapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in §
150.046.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.046 REVISIONS.
   (A)   The following sections are hereby revised:
 
International Existing Building Code Amendments
Section References
Section 101: General
Section 103: Department of Building Safety
Section 105: Permits
Section 108: Fees
Section 112: Board of Appeals Appendices
 
   Chapter 1: Scope and Administration
Section 101 General.
[A] 101.1 Title. Amend as follows: These regulations shall be known as the 2018
Existing Building Code of Jersey County, Illinois, herein after referred to as
“this code”.
   Administration and Enforcement
Section 103 Department of Building Safety.
[A] 103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. Amend: The office of the Jersey
County Code Administrator is hereby created and the official in charge thereof
shall be known as the County Code Administrator, or herein after referred to as
the “code official”.
[A] 103.2 Appointment. Amend: The Jersey County Code Administrator shall be
appointed by the Jersey County Board.
Section 105: Permits.
[A] 105.1 Required. Amending to read: Any owner or owner’s authorized agent who
intends to repair, add to, alter, relocate, demolish, or change the occupancy
of a building which is regulated by this code, or to cause any such work to be
performed, shall first make application to the Code Official and obtain the
required permit.
[A] 105.1.1 Annual permit. Delete.
[A] 105.2 Work exempt from permit. Amending: Exemptions from permit
requirements of this code shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any
work to be done in any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or
any other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction. Permits shall not be
required for the following:
Building:
   1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage sheds,
playhouses, and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 120
square feet.
   2.   Fences.
   3.   Retaining walls.
   4.   Water tanks.
   5.   Sidewalks and driveways.
   6.   Pools.
   7.   Siding, window awnings.
   8.   Interior redecorating.
   9.   Roof repairs.
   10.   Decks not exceeding over 25 square feet in area, that are not more
than 30 inches above grade at any point, are not attached to a dwelling do not
serve the exit door required by Section 311.4.
[A] 105.2.1. Emergency repairs. Delete in its entirety.
[A] 105.3.2 Time limitation of application. Amend as: An application for a
permit for any proposed work shall be deemed to have been abandoned 180 days
after the date of filing unless such application has been pursued in good faith
or a permit has been issued; except that the Jersey County Code Administrator
is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional periods
not exceeding 90 days each. If a second 90 day extension is granted a fee of
one half the original cost of the permit shall be paid before work shall
commence. The extension shall be requested in writing and justifiable cause
demonstrated.
[A] 105.4 Validity of permit. Amending: Every permit issued shall become
invalid unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced
within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the site by
such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the time
the work is commenced. The Code Official is authorized to grant, in writing, up
to two extensions of time periods not more than 90 days each. If a second 90
day extension is granted a fee of one half the original cost of the permit
shall be paid before work shall commence. The extension shall be requested in
writing and justifiable cause demonstrated.
[A]105.5 Expiration. Delete.
Section 108 Fees.
[A] 108.2 Schedule of permit fees. Amend: For any type of work as specified
herein a permit fee shall be paid as required at the time of filing application
in accordance with the Schedule of Fees as established by the Jersey County
Board.
Section 112 Board of Appeals.
[A] 112.5 Fees. Add the following: A nominal appeal fee to the Board of Appeals
shall be paid as set forth by the Jersey County Board. The appeal shall be
valid for 30 days and is non refundable.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE
§ 150.060 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the office
of the County Code Administrator for more than 30 days prior to the adoption of
this subchapter, being marked and designated as the International Fuel Gas
Code, 2018 edition, Appendix B and Appendix C, and as amended herein, as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
Fuel Gas Code of the county for regulating and governing fuel gas systems and
gas-fired appliances as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code on file in the office of
the County Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this subchapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.061.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.061 REVISIONS.
   The following section is hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert “County of Jersey”.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
ILLINOIS ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
§ 150.075 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the office
of the County Code Administrator for more than 30 days prior to the adoption of
this subchapter, being marked and designated as the Illinois Energy
Conservation Code, 2018 edition, with amendments, as promulgated by the state
per 20 ILCS 3125, effective July 1, 2019, and is hereby adopted as the Energy
Conservation Code of the county for regulating and governing energy efficient
building envelopes and installation of energy efficient mechanical, lighting
and power systems as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of said Energy Conservation Code on file in the office of
the County Code Administrator are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this subchapter, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.076.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.076 REVISIONS.
   The following section is hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert “County of Jersey”.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
LIFE SAFETY CODE (NFPA 101)
§ 150.090 ADOPTED.
   (A)   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the
office of the County Clerk for more than 30 days prior to the adoption of this
subchapter, being marked and designated as the Life Safety Code (NFPA 101),
2014 edition, as published by the National Fire Protection Association, be and
is hereby adopted as the Life Safety Code of the county for regulating and
governing fire prevention and related matters in the construction and
alteration of buildings and other structures in the county; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of said Life Safety Code on
file in the office of the County Clerk are hereby referred to, adopted, and
made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section.
   (B)   Concurrently with the adoption of this Life Safety Code (NFPA 101),
2014 edition, published by the National Fire Protection Association, the county
is also adopting the International Fire Code, 2015 edition, published by the
International Code Council in this section at §§
150.105 and
150.106. While these two codes do not cover all of the same fire prevention and
construction issues, to the extent that they do cover the same issues, the more
stringent requirements shall apply.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-9-2016)
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
§ 150.105 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the office
of the County Code Administrator for more than 30 days prior to the adoption of
this subchapter, being marked and designated as the International Fire Code,
2018 edition, including Appendix Chapters B and D (see International Fire Code
Section 101.2.1, 2018 edition) as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the county for regulating and
governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards
arising from the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of said Fire
Code on file in the office of the County Code Administrator are hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this subchapter, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.106.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.106 REVISIONS.
   (A)   The following section is hereby revised:
   The following sections are hereby revised:
 
International Fire Code Amendments
Section References
Section: References
Section 101: Scope and General Requirements
Section 105: Permits
Section 106: Fees
Section 109: Board of Appeals
 
Chapter 1: General Provisions
Section 101 Scope and General Requirements.
Section 101.1 Insert “County of Jersey”.
Section 105 Permits. Delete Section 105 in its entirety.
Section 106 Fees. Delete Section 106 in its entirety.
Section 109 Board of Appeals. Delete Section 109 in its entirety.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE (NFPA 70)
§ 150.120 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the office
of the County Code Administrator for more than 30 days prior to the adoption of
this subchapter, being marked and designated as the National Electrical Code
(NFPA 70), 2017 edition, published by the National Fire Protection Association,
be and is hereby adopted as the Electrical Code of the county for regulating
and governing the construction and alteration of electrical wiring and
apparatus in the construction and alteration of all buildings or other
structures in the city as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of said Electrical Code on file in the office
of the County Code Administrator are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this subchapter with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.121.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.121 REVISIONS.
   The following section is hereby revised:
   2014 Edition of the International Electrical Code Amendments
 
Section References
Section 210: Branch Wiring
 
   Chapter 2: Wiring and Protection
Section 210: Branch Wiring
210.8 Ground - Fault Circuit - Interrupter Protection for Personnel. Ground-
fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel shall be provided as
required in 210.8(A) through (D). The ground-fault circuit- interrupter may be
installed in a readily accessible location.
   (A)   Dwelling Units. All 125-volt, single-phase, 15 and 20 amp receptacles
installed in the locations specified in 210.8(A)(1) through (10) shall have
ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection for personnel.
   Exceptions: (9) Bathtubs or shower stalls - where receptacles are installed
within 2.8 m (6 ft) of the outside edge of the bathtub or shower stall may have
protection for the installation of a ground-fault circuit-interrupter.
(10) Laundry areas may have protection for the installation of a ground-fault
circuit- interrupter.
210.12 Arc-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection. AFCI protection shall be
provided as required in 210.12(A), (B), and (C). The AFCI may be installed in a
readily accessible location.
   (A)   Dwelling Units. All 120-volt, single-phase, 15- and 20-ampere branch
circuits supply outlets or devices installed in dwelling unit shall be
protected by any of the means described in 210.12 (A)(1) through (6).
III Required Outlets.
210.52(G)(1) Garages. In each attached garage and in each detached garage with
electric power. The branch circuit supplying this receptacle(s) shall not may
supply outlets outside of the garage. At least one outlet shall be installed
for each car space.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.135 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, three copies of which are, and have been on file in the
office of the County Code Administrator for more than 30 days prior to the
adoption of this section, being marked and designated as the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 2017 edition, promulgated by the State of Illinois, pursuant to 225 ILCS
320/35, be and is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of the county, pursuant
to 225 ILCS 320/36, for regulating and governing the minimum standards for the
design, construction, installation and alteration of plumbing and the fixtures,
materials, equipment, piping and related apparatus in the design, construction,
installation, and alteration of all buildings or other structures in the county
as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions, and terms of said Plumbing Code on file in the office of the County
Code Administrator are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section.
Section 2. No amendments.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
ARTICLE 1: ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.150 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, one copy of which is, and has been on file in the office
of the County Code Administrator for more than 30 days prior to the adoption of
this subchapter, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix A, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the county for regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures as herein
provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms
of said Property Maintenance Code on file in the office of the County Code
Administrator and are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this subchapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in §
150.151.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.151 REVISIONS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
2018 International Property Maintenance Code Amendments
Section References
2018 International Property Maintenance Code Amendments
Section References
Section 101: General
Section 102: Applicability
Section 103: Department of Property Maintenance Inspection
Section 106: Violations
Section 107: Notices and Orders
Section 108: Unsafe Structures and Equipment
Section 111: Means of Appeal
Section 302: Exterior of Property
Section 305: Interior Structure
Section 306: Component Serviceability
Section Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
Chapter 5: Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements
Chapter 6: Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
Section 704: Fire Protection Systems
 
   Chapter 1: Scope and Administration
Section 101 General.
101.1 Title. Insert “County of Jersey”.
Section 102 Applicability.
102.3 Application of other codes. Remove the following sentence:
Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside any
provision of the International Zoning Code.
   Chapter 2: Administration and Enforcement
Section 103 Department of Property Maintenance Inspection.
103.5 Fees. Amend to read as follows:
103.5 Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the code official
in carry out its responsibilities under this code shall be as indicated in the
Environmental Fee Schedule as adopted by the Jersey County Board.
Section 106 Violations.
[A] 106.3 Prosecution of violation. Remove “municipality” and insert
“community”.
Section 107 Notices and Orders.
107.5 Penalties. Amend by removing Section 106.4 to read as follows:
107.5 Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall he
as set forth in the Environmental Fee Schedule as adopted by the Jersey County
Board.
Section 108 Unsafe Structures and Equipment.
Section 108. Remove all references to “condemned” or “condemnation” and replace
with “imminent danger”.
Section 111 Means of Appeal.
[A] 111.2 Membership of board. Amend to read as follows:
[A] 112.2 Membership of board. The board of appeals shall consist of not less
than three members who are qualified by experience to pass on matters
pertaining to property maintenance and who are not employees of the
jurisdiction. The code official shall be an ex-officio member but shall not
vote on any matter before the board. The board shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority, and shall serve until such time the member turns a
written notice of resignation or can no longer fulfill their duty.
[A] 111.2.5 Compensation of members. Amend as follows:
[A] 111.2.5 Compensation of members. Compensation of members shall be
determined by the County Board.
Section 112 Stop Work Order.
[A] 112.4 Failure to comply. Insert “less than $50.00 or more than $750.00”.
Section 302 Exterior Property Areas.
302.3 Sidewalks and driveways. Delete.
302.4 Weeds. Insert “twelve (12) inches”.
Section 304 Exterior Structure. Delete in its entirety.
Section 305 Interior Structure. Delete in its entirety.
Chapter 4: Light, Ventilation and Occupancy Limitations
Section 404 Occupancy Limitations.
404.4 Room area. Amend to read as follows:
404.4 Room area. Minimum total square footage of living space cannot contain
less than 400 (26.0m²) square feet. Every bedroom shall contain not less than
70 square feet (6.5.m²) and every bedroom occupied by more than one person
shall contain not less than 50 square feet (4.6m²) of floor area for each
occupant thereof.
404.4.4 Prohibited occupancy. Amend to read as follows:
404.4.4 Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens, portable sheds, accessory buildings,
garages and non-habitable spaces shall not be used for sleeping, habitation,
industrial or commercial use.
Table 404.5 amended.
 
Space          Minimum Area Requirements
               2-4 Occupants  5-7 Occupants 7 or More Occupants
Dining roomª bNo requirement 80            100
Bedrooms       Shall comply with Section 404.4.1
 
   For SI: 1 square foot=0.9299m²
   a. See Section 404.5.2 for combined living room/dining room spaces.
   b. See Section 404.5.1 for limitations on determining the minimum occupancy
are for sleeping purposes.
Chapter 5: Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements
Delete in its entirety.
Chapter 6: Mechanical and Electrical Requirements
Delete in its entirety.
Chapter 7: Fire Safety Requirements.
Section 704 Fire Protection Systems.
[F] 704.1.3 Fire protection systems. Amended to read as follows:
[F] 704.1.3 Fire protection systems. Fire protection systems shall be
inspected, maintained and tested in accordance with the following 2018
International Fire Code, as amended, revised, deleted or added.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.152 GENERAL.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the “Property Maintenance
Code of Jersey County, Illinois”, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all existing
residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards,
and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators
and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for
administration, enforcement and penalties.
   (C)   Intent. This subchapter shall be construed to secure its expressed
intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare in so far as they
are affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and
premises. Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these
provisions shall be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health
and safety as required herein.
   (D)   Severability. If a section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of
this subchapter is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.153 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all matters
affecting or relating to structures and premises, as set forth in §
150.152. Where, in a specific case, different sections of this subchapter
specify different requirements, the most restrictive shall govern.
   (B)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this subchapter or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are
in progress. The requirements of this subchapter are not intended to provide
the basis for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and
devices in existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner
or the owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of
buildings, structures and premises.
   (C)   Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the International Building Code, International
Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code and the ICC Electrical Code.
Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to cancel, modify or set aside
any provision of the International Zoning Code.
   (D)   Existing remedies. The provisions in this subchapter shall not be
construed to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its
officers or agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure
which is dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
   (E)   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this subchapter
shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in
accordance with the manufacturer’s installation instructions.
   (F)   Historic buildings. The provisions of this subchapter shall not be
mandatory for existing buildings or structures designated as historic buildings
when such buildings or structures are judged by the Code Official to be safe
and in the public interest of health, safety and welfare.
   (G)   Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards referenced in
this subchapter shall be those that are listed in §
150.220 and considered part of the requirements of this subchapter to the
prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur between
provisions of this subchapter and the referenced standards, the provisions of
this subchapter shall apply.
   (H)   Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this subchapter, shall be determined by the Code
Official.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.154 DEPARTMENT OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. The Department of Property Maintenance inspection is hereby
created and the executive official in charge thereof shall be known as the Code
Official.
   (B)   Appointment. The Code Official shall be appointed by the chief
appointing authority of the jurisdiction; and the Code Official shall not be
removed from office except for cause and after full opportunity to be heard on
specific and relevant charges by and before the appointing authority.
   (C)   Deputies. In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this
jurisdiction and with the concurrence of the appointing authority, the Code
Official shall have the authority to appoint a deputy Code Official, other
related technical officers, inspectors and other employees.
   (D)   Liability.
      (1)   The Code Official, officer or employee charged with the enforcement
of this subchapter, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not thereby be
rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act required
or permitted in the discharge of official duties.
      (2)   Any suit instituted against any officer or employee because of an
act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and
under the provisions of this subchapter shall be defended by the legal
representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the
proceedings. The Code Official or any subordinate shall not be liable for costs
in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this subchapter; and any officer of the department of property
maintenance inspection, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free
from liability for acts performed under any of its provisions or by reason of
any act or omission in the performance of official duties in connection
therewith.
   (E)   Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the department
in carrying out its responsibilities under this subchapter shall be as
indicated in the following schedule.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.155 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   General. The Code Official shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Rule-making authority. The Code Official shall have authority as
necessary in the interest of public health, safety and general welfare, to
adopt and promulgate rules and procedures; to interpret and implement the
provisions of this subchapter; to secure the intent thereof; and to designate
requirements applicable because of local climatic or other conditions. Such
rules shall not have the effect of waiving structural or fire performance
requirements specifically provided for in this subchapter, or of violating
accepted engineering methods involving public safety.
   (C)   Inspections. The Code Official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The Code Official is authorized to engage such expert
opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise,
subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
   (D)   Right of entry. The Code Official is authorized to enter the structure
or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the Code Official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by
law.
   (E)   Identification. The Code Official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
subchapter.
   (F)   Notices and orders. The Code Official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   (G)   Department records. The Code Official shall keep official records of
all business and activities of the department specified in the provisions of
this subchapter. Such records shall be retained in the official records as long
as the building or structure to which such records relate remains in existence,
unless otherwise provided for by other regulations.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.156 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the Code Official shall have
the authority to grant modifications for individual cases, provided the Code
Official shall first find that special individual reason makes the strict
letter of this subchapter impractical and the modification is in compliance
with the intent and purpose of this subchapter and that such modification does
not lessen health, life and fire safety requirements. The details of action
granting modifications shall be recorded and entered in the department files.
   (B)   Alternative materials, methods and equipment.
         (1)   The provisions of this subchapter are not intended to prevent
the installation of any material or to prohibit any method of construction not
specifically prescribed by this subchapter, provided that any such alternative
has been approved.
         (2)   An alternative material or method of construction shall be
approved where the Code Official finds that the proposed design is satisfactory
and complies with the intent of the provisions of this subchapter, and that the
material, method or work offered is, for the purpose intended, at least the
equivalent of that prescribed in this subchapter in quality, strength,
effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety.
   (C)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, or evidence that a material
or method does not conform to the requirements of this subchapter, or in order
to substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the Code Official
shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of compliance
at no expense to the jurisdiction.
      (1)   Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this subchapter
or by other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and
accepted test methods, the Code Official shall be permitted to approve
appropriate testing procedures performed by an approved agency.
      (2)   Test reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the Code
Official for the period required for retention of public records.
   (D)   Material and equipment reuse. Materials, equipment and devices shall
not be reused unless such elements are in good repair or have been
reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in good and proper working
condition and approved.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.157 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation
to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Notice of violation. The Code Official shall serve a notice of
violation or order in accordance with §
150.158.
   (C)   Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order served in accordance with §
150.158 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil infraction as
determined by the local municipality, and the violation shall be deemed a
strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the
Code Official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter or of the order or direction made pursuant
thereto. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such premises
shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located
and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (D)   Violation penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of this
subchapter, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements
thereof, shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws.
Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (E)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or
premises.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.158 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice to person responsible. Whenever the Code Official determines
that there has been a violation of this subchapter or has grounds to believe
that a violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner prescribed
in divisions (B) and (C) below to the person responsible for the violation as
specified in this subchapter. Notices for condemnation procedures shall also
comply with §
150.159(C).
   (B)   Form. Such notice prescribed in division (A) above shall be in
accordance with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal; and
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
§
150.157(C).
   (C)   Method of service. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified or first-class mail addressed to the last known
address; or
      (3)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
   (D)   Penalties. Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall
be as set forth in §
150.157(D).
   (E)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the Code Official and shall furnish to the Code Official a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.159 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   General. When a structure or equipment is found by the Code Official
to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is
found unlawful, such structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
   (C)   Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
   (D)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Code Official finds that such structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this subchapter, or because
the location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.160 DANGER AND SAFEGUARDS.
   (A)   Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure that
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the Code Official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The Code Official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such structure a notice reading as
follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
Code Official.” It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such structure
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
   (B)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
subchapter, whenever, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the Code Official shall order the necessary
work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such
structure temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described
has been instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the Code
Official deems necessary to meet such emergency.
   (C)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code Official
shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   (D)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Code Official
shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as
expeditiously as possible.
   (E)   Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises or owner’s authorized agent where the unsafe structure is or was
located for the recovery of such costs.
   (F)   Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the Appeals Board, be afforded a hearing as described in this
subchapter   
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.161 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   General. The Code Official shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which in the Code Official’s judgment is so
old, dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to demolish and remove such
structure; or if such structure is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary or to demolish and remove at the owner’s
option; or where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any
structure for a period of more than two years, to demolish and remove such
structure.
   (B)   Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with §
150.158.
   (C)   Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the Code Official shall cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (D)   Salvage materials.
      (1)   When any structure has been ordered demolished and removed, the
governing body or other designated officer under said contract or arrangement
aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable materials at
the highest price obtainable.
      (2)   The net proceeds of such sale, after deducting the expenses of such
demolition and removal, shall be promptly remitted with a report of such sale
or transaction, including the items of expense and the amounts deducted, for
the person who is entitled thereto, subject to any order of a court. If such a
surplus does not remain to be turned over, the report shall so state.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.162 MEANS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of
the Code Official or a notice or order issued under this subchapter shall have
the right to appeal to the Board of Appeals, provided that a written
application for appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision,
notice or order was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim
that the true intent of this subchapter or the rules legally adopted there
under have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this subchapter do
not fully apply, or the requirements of this subchapter are adequately
satisfied by other means.
   (B)   Membership of Board.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals shall consist of a minimum of three members
who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to
property maintenance and who are not employees of the jurisdiction. The Code
Official shall be an ex officio member but shall have no vote on any matter
before the Board.
      (2)   The Board shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority, and
shall serve staggered and overlapping terms.
         (a)   Alternate members. The chief appointing authority shall appoint
two or more alternate members who shall be called by the Board Chairperson to
hear appeals during the absence or disqualification of a member. Alternate
members shall possess the qualifications required for Board membership.
         (b)   Chairperson. The Board shall annually select one of its members
to serve as Chairperson.
         (c)   Disqualification of member. A member shall not hear an appeal in
which that member has a personal, professional or financial interest.
         (d)   Secretary. The chief administrative officer shall designate a
qualified person to serve as Secretary to the Board. The Secretary shall file a
detailed record of all proceedings in the office of the chief administrative
officer.
         (e)   Compensation of members. Compensation of members shall be
determined by law.
   (C)   Notice of meeting. The Board shall meet upon notice from the
Chairperson, within 20 days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated periodic
meetings.
   (D)   Open hearing.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   All hearings before the Board shall be open to the public.
         (b)   The appellant, the appellant’s representative, the Code Official
and any person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be
heard.
         (c)   A quorum shall consist of not less than two-thirds of the Board
membership.
      (2)   Procedure. The Board shall adopt and make available to the public
through the secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence, but
shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
   (E)   Postponed hearing. When the full Board is not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant’s representative shall have the
right to request a postponement of the hearing.
   (F)   Board decision. The Board shall modify or reverse the decision of the
Code Official only by a concurring vote of a majority of the total number of
appointed Board members.
      (1)   Records and copies. The decision of the Board shall be recorded.
Copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the Code Official.
      (2)   Administration. The Code Official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the Board.
   (G)   Court review. Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the
office of the chief administrative officer.
   (H)   Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and orders (other than
imminent danger notices) shall stay the enforcement of the notice and order
until the appeal is heard by the Appeals Board.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
ARTICLE 2: DEFINITIONS
§ 150.175 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purposes of this subchapter, have the meanings shown in this
subchapter.
   (B)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
   (C)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this
subchapter and are defined in the International Building Code, International
Fire Code, International Zoning Code, International Plumbing Code,
International Mechanical Code or the ICC Electrical Code, such terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
   (D)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
   (E)   Parts. Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”,
“building”, “rooming house”, “rooming unit”, “housekeeping unit” or “story” are
stated in this subchapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed
by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.176 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
   BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes
in either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter, or any duly authorized representative.
   CONDEMN. To judge unfit for occupancy.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. The portion of land or property reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The
EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a said lot or
lots.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of such premises.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison spraying, fumigating, trapping or
by any other approved pest elimination methods.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces,
and similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating which
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life-threatening
injury or death at any time.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including, but not limited to, being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under its own
power.
   LABELED. Devices, equipment, appliances or materials to which has been
affixed a label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally
recognized testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the
production of the above-labeled items and by whose label the manufacturer
attests to compliance with applicable nationally recognized standards.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, skylight or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as
a unit.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not sleeping units.
   STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
   VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged and without marring adjacent work.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
ARTICLE 3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.190 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment and exterior property.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this subchapter. A person shall not occupy as
owner-occupant or permit another person to occupy premises that are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and that do not comply with the requirements of
this subchapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping
unit are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that
part of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which
they occupy and control.
   (C)   Vacant structures and land. Vacant structures and premises thereof or
vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition
as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or adversely affect
the public health or safety.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.191 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Sanitation. Exterior property and premises shall be maintained in a
clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property that such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Grading and drainage.
      (1)   Premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of
soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any
structure located thereon.
      (2)   Exception: approved retention areas and reservoirs.
   (C)   Weeds. Premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from
weeds or plant growth in excess of 12 inches. Noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs provided; however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens.
      (1)   Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to
cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be
subject to prosecution in accordance with §
150.157(C) and as prescribed by the authority having jurisdiction.
      (2)   Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any duly
authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the jurisdiction
shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and cut and destroy
the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall be paid by the
owner or agent responsible for the property.
   (D)   Rodent harborage. Structures and exterior property shall be kept free
from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate
rodent harborage and prevent re-infestation.
   (E)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
   (F)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair.
   (G)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   Except as provided for in other regulations, no inoperative or
unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any premises, and
no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly, disrepair or
in the process of being stripped or dismantled. Painting of vehicles is
prohibited unless conducted inside an approved spray booth.
      (2)   Exception: a vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major
overhaul, including body work, provided that such work is performed inside a
structure or similarly enclosed area designed and approved for such purposes.
   (H)   Defacement of property.
      (1)   No person shall willfully or wantonly damage, mutilate or deface
any exterior surface of any structure or building on any private or public
property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore said surface
to an approved state of maintenance and repair.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.192 HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Every exterior and interior flight of stairs having more than four
risers shall have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open portion of
a stair, landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking surface that is
more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below shall have guards.
      (2)   Handrails shall be not less than 30 inches (762mm) in height or
more than 42 inches (1,067 mm) in height measured vertically above the nosing
of the tread or above the finished floor of the landing or walking surfaces.
      (3)   Guards shall be not less than 30 inches (762 mm) in height above
the floor of the landing, balcony, porch, deck or ramp or other walking
surface.
   (B)   Exception. Guards shall not be required where exempted by the adopted
Building Code.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.193 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and
premises, and the interior of every structure, shall be free from any
accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such rubbish in approved
containers.
      (1)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premises
shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the
premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      (2)   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation
shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first removing
the doors.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of
garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved
garbage disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
      (1)   Garbage facilities. The owner of every dwelling shall supply one of
the following: an approved mechanical food waste grinder in each dwelling unit;
an approved incinerator unit in the structure available to the occupants in
each dwelling unit; or an approved leak-proof, covered, outside garbage
container.
      (2)   Containers. The operator of every establishment producing garbage
shall provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved leak-proof
containers provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of such materials
until removed from the premises for disposal.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.194 EXTERMINATION.
   (A)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent re-
infestation.
   (B)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for
extermination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (C)   Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single-
tenant nonresidential structure shall be responsible for extermination on the
premises.
   (D)   Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a nonresidential
structure shall be responsible for extermination in the public or shared areas
of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by failure of
an occupant to prevent such infestation in the area occupied, the occupant
shall be responsible for extermination.
   (E)   Occupant.
      (1)   General. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest-free condition of the structure.
      (2)   Exception. Where the infestations are caused by defects in the
structure, the owner shall be responsible for extermination.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
ARTICLE 4: FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.205 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior
premises, including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain
such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner-occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.206 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be
provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way. Means of
egress shall comply with the International Fire Code.
   (B)   Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the
International Fire Code shall be unobstructed.
   (C)   Locked doors. All means of egress doors shall be readily openable from
the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special
knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that permitted
by the International Building Code.
   (D)   Emergency escape openings.
      (1)   Required emergency escape openings shall be maintained in
accordance with the code in effect at the time of construction, and the
following.
      (2)   Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be operational
from the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools.
      (3)   Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed
over emergency escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear
opening size complies with the code that was in effect at the time of
construction and such devices shall be releasable or removable from the inside
without the use of a key, tool or force greater than that which is required for
normal operation of the escape and rescue opening.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.207 FIRE-RESISTANCE RATINGS.
   (A)   Fire-resistance-rated assemblies. The required fire-resistance rating
of fire-resistance-rated walls, fire stops, shaft enclosures, partitions and
floors shall be maintained.
   (B)   Opening protectives. Required opening protectives shall be maintained
in an operative condition. All fire and smokestop doors shall be maintained in
operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not be blocked or
obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
§ 150.208 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. All systems, devices and equipment to detect a fire, actuate
an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof shall be
maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with the
International Fire Code.
   (B)   Smoke alarms. Single or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be
installed and maintained in Groups R-2, R-3, R-4 and in dwellings not regulated
in Group R occupancies, regardless of occupant load at all of the following
locations:
      (1)   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of bedrooms;
      (2)   In each room used for sleeping purposes; and
      (3)   (a)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings
or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level, provided that the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
         (b)   Single or multiple-station smoke alarms shall be installed in
other groups in accordance with the International Fire Code.
   (C)   Power source.
      (1)   General. In Group R occupancies and in dwellings not regulated as
Group R occupancies, single-station smoke alarms shall receive their primary
power from the building wiring provided that such wiring is served from a
commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms
shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and
without a disconnecting switch other than as required for over-current
protection.
      (2)   Exception. Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated
in buildings where no construction is taking place, buildings that are not
served from a commercial power source and in existing areas of buildings
undergoing alterations or repairs that do not result in the removal of interior
wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic,
crawl space or basement available which could provide access for building
wiring without the removal of interior finishes.
   (D)   Interconnection.
      (1)   General. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling unit in Group R-2, R-3, R-4 and in
dwellings not regulated as Group R occupancies, the smoke alarms shall be
interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will activate
all of the alarms in the individual unit. The alarm shall be clearly audible in
all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Interconnection is not required in buildings which are not
undergoing alterations, repairs or construction of any kind.
         (b)   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be
interconnected where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of
interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an
attic, crawl space or basement available which could provide access for
interconnection without the removal of interior finishes.
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
ARTICLE 5: REFERENCED STANDARDS
§ 150.220 REFERENCED STANDARDS.
   This subchapter lists the standards that are referenced in various sections
of this document. The standards are listed herein by the promulgating agency of
the standard, the standard identification, the effective date and title and the
section or sections of this document that reference the standard. The
application of the referenced standards shall be as specified in §
150.153(H).
                          American Society of
ASME                      Mechanical Engineers        
                          Three Park Avenue
                          New York. NY 10016-5990
Standard Reference Number Title                      Referenced in Code Section
                                                     Number
ASME A17.1/CSA B44-2013   Safety Code for Elevators  606.1
                          and Escalators
                          ASTM International
ASTM                      100 Barr Harbor Drive       
                          West Conshohocken, PA
                          19428-2959
Standard Reference Number Title                      Referenced in Code Section
                                                     Number
                          Performance Specifications
                          for Safety Covers and
F 1346—91 (2010)        Labeling Requirements for  303.2
                          All Covers for Swimming
                          Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs
                          International Code Council
ICC                       500 New Jersey Avenue, NW   
                          6th Floor
                          Washington, DC 20001
Standard Reference Number Title                      Referenced in Code Section
                                                     Number
IBC—15                  International Building     102.3, 201.3, 401.3, 702.3
                          Code
IEBC—15                 International Existing     305.1.1, 306.1.1
                          Building Code
                                                     201.3. 604.3.1.1,
IFC—15                  International Fire Code    604.3.2.1, 702.1, 702.2,
                                                     704.1, 704.2
IFGC—15                 International Fuel Gas     102.3
                          Code
IMC—15                  International Mechanical   102.3, 201.3
                          Code
IPC—15                  International Plumbing     201.3, 505.1. 602.2, 602.3
                          Code
IRC—15                  International Residential  201.3
                          Code
IZC—15                  International Zoning Code  102.3, 201.3
                          National Fire Protection
NFPA                      Association                 
                          1 Batterymarch Park
                          Quincy, MA 02269
Standard Reference Number Title                      Referenced in Code Section
                                                     Number
                          Standard for the
25—14                   Inspection, Testing and    704.1.1
                          Maintenance of Water-Based
                          Fire Protection Systems
70—14                   National Electrical Code   102.4, 201.3, 604.2
 
(Ord. passed 11-9-2016)
BUILDING PERMITS AND PURPOSE
§ 150.235 PURPOSE.
   In all areas of the county, except in incorporated municipalities, and
including any intergovernmental agreements on record, building permits must be
obtained from the office of the County Code Administrator before beginning any
new construction or alteration of any structure in accordance with this
subchapter. The purposes for obtaining permits are to promote fair and equal
taxation, to see any environmental laws or local ordinances are not violated by
construction and to ensure that state and local construction guidelines are
followed.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.236 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTION. A provision with respect to the erection,
maintenance, repair, alterations, remodeling or extensions of buildings or
structures, including one farm residence occupied by those engaged “primarily
in the occupation of farming” used or intended to be used for agricultural
purposes upon the land on which it is the principal activity on the land,
except that buildings or structures for agricultural purposes will be required
to conform to building setback lines. Permits issued for the erection or
extension of buildings or structures or other purposes described as
agricultural will be issued free of charge.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof, including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings.
   EARTH SHELTER HOMES. Earthen homes designed to provide a means of egress
available from the lowest elevation directly to the outside and whereby
provisions are made to allow for natural light and ventilation. The term does
not include basement homes.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LAND USE AND SUBDIVISION COMMITTEE. A standing committee of the Jersey
County Board.
   LAND USE FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES. Includes the growing of farm crops,
truck garden crops, animal and poultry husbandry, apiculture, aquaculture,
dairying, floriculture, horticulture, nurseries, tree farms, sod farms,
pasturage, viticulture and wholesale greenhouses when such agricultural
purposes constitute the principal activity on the land.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure designed for transport and are supported by a
v-shape chassis support with the weight load being distributed centrally and is
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
utilities.
   SFHA, SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Synonymous with FLOODPLAIN. Those lands
within the jurisdiction of the county that are subject to inundation by the
base flood. The floodplains of the county are generally identified as such on
the flood insurance rate map of the county prepared by FEMA. SFHA shall also
include those areas of known flooding identified by the community.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.237 BUILDING SETBACKS.
   Building set-backs as established in 55 ILCS 5/5-12.
   (A)   All buildings open to the general public must have necessary parking
spaces with ingress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion.
   (B)   All commercial buildings must set no less than 75 feet from the road
right-of-way. All commercial buildings must set no less than 35 feet from
property line.
   (C)   All residential buildings must set no less than 35 feet from road
right-of-way. All residential buildings must set no closer than 15 feet from
property lines.
(Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021)
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SITING AND PERMITS
§ 150.250 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The primary intent of this subchapter is to establish standards and general
guidelines for the siting of telecommunications towers, antennas and equipment
to be located within the county in a manner that will protect the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the county by promoting goals of
this subchapter as follows:
   (A)   Ensure compliance of all telecommunications facilities with current
federal, state and local regulations;
   (B)   Encourage the use of existing structures as an alternative to new
tower construction;
   (C)   Encourage co-location and site sharing of new and existing wireless
communication facilities;
   (D)   Recognize the commercial communication requirements of all sectors of
the business and residential community;
   (E)   Encourage the continued improvement of wireless telecommunications in
the county; and
   (F)   Facilitate the design and construction of towers and antennas which
minimize adverse visual impacts.
(Ord. 11-21, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.251 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Structure or device which is used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, rods, discs, microwave dishes, satellite dishes and
omnidirectional antennas, such as whip antennas.
   ANTENNA ARRAY. One or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices used for
the transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include an
omnidirectional antenna (rod), a directional antenna (panel) and a parabolic
antenna (disc). The ANTENNA ARRAY does not include the support structure
defined below.
   COLLOCATION/SITE SHARING. Use of a common WCF or common site by two or more
wireless license holders or by one wireless license holder for more than one
type of communications technology and/or placement of a WCF on a structure
owned or operated by a utility or other public entity.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services, including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
   COUNTY-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE. Streetlights and traffic signals owned,
operated and maintained by the county and within public right-of-way.
   EQUIPMENT HOUSING. A combination of one or more equipment buildings or
enclosures housing equipment that operates in conjunction with the antennas of
a facility and the equipment itself.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States Department of
Transportation.
   FACILITY. The part of the signal distribution system used or operated by a
telecommunications carrier or AM broadcast station under a license from the FCC
consisting of a combination of improvements and equipment including:
      (1)   One or more antennas;
      (2)   A supporting structure and the hardware by which antennas are
attached;
      (3)   Equipment house; and
      (4)   Ancillary equipment, such as signal transmission cables and
miscellaneous hardware.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HEIGHT. The total height of the facility’s supporting structure and any
antennas that will extend above the top of the supporting structure; however,
if the supporting structure’s foundation extends more than three feet above the
uppermost ground level along the perimeter of the foundation, then each full
foot in excess of three feet shall be counted as an additional foot of the
facility HEIGHT. The HEIGHT of a facility’s supporting structure is to be
measured from the highest point of the supporting structure’s foundation.
   LATTICE. A framework or structure of crossed metal strips typically resting
on three members constructed vertically to which antennas are affixed.
   MONOPOLE. A single, slender, continuously tapered and typically cylindrical-
or polygon-sided, vertical structure to which antennas or antenna support
structures are affixed.
   PROVIDER. Excludes any person who is providing service to or for a private
niche market.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure designed and constructed specifically to
support an antenna, and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice)
tower, guy-wire support tower and other similar structures. Any device which is
used to attach an attached WCF to an existing building or structure shall be
excluded from the definition of SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
   TOWER. Any ground or roof-mounted pole, spire, antenna, structure, monopole
or combination thereof, taller than 15 feet, including supporting lines,
cables, wires, braces and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of
elevating antenna, a meteorological device or similar apparatus above grade.
      (1)   TOWER, MULTI-USER. A tower to which are attached the antennas of
more than one commercial wireless telecommunication service provider or
governmental entity.
      (2)   TOWER, SINGLE-USER. A tower to which are attached only the antenna
(s) of a single-user, although the tower may be designed to accommodate the
antennas of multiple users as required in this code.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS. Any personal wireless service as defined in the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, which includes FCC-licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services including personal communication services (PCS),
specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR),
paging and similar services that currently exist or that may in the future be
developed.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY (WCF). Any unstaffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, usually
consisting of antenna connection cables, an accessory building and a support
structure to achieve the necessary elevation. A WCF does not include the
structure or improvements on, under or within which the equipment is
collocated, or wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures, utility poles, coaxial or fiber optic
cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly associated with
an antenna.
(Ord. 11-21, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.252 APPLICABILITY.
   WCFs for which a permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this
subchapter, being November 9, 2021, shall not be required to meet the
requirements of this section except as further specified in §
150.250.
   (A)   New WCF. A proposal for a new WCF shall not be approved unless the
tower is being built for a licensed commercial wireless services, including
cellular, personal communication services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio
(SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging and similar services
that are marketed to the general public.
   (B)   Design and construction. Any proposed commercial WCF service tower
shall be engineered, designed and constructed, structurally, electrically and
in all respects to accommodate and share both the applicant’s antennas and
comparable antennas for future rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to
accept and allow normal work in operation of antennas mounted at varying
heights.
   (C)   Outdoor advertising. No WCF shall be used in such a manner to support
or display any outdoor signage or banners for any commercial or advertisement
purposes.
   (D)   Relationship to other ordinances. Where allowed by law, this
subchapter shall supersede all conflicting requirements of other codes and
ordinances regarding the location and permitting of WCFs, except for
environmental regulations.
   (E)   Compliance to all federal and state aviation laws. When applicable,
proponents must provide documentation that all pertinent requirements of the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
and any required aviation easements have been satisfied prior to application
for a local permit.
(Ord. 11-21, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.253 APPLICATION PROCESS; FEES.
   (A)   Application methods. All development applications for towers shall
include written documentation evidencing compliance with each provision of this
subchapter, as well as the applicable building regulations in addition to the
following supplemental information:
      (1)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which:
         (a)   Describes the tower height and design, including a cross-section
in elevation;
         (b)   Documents the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for collocated antennas and the minimum separation between antennas
that it can accommodate;
         (c)   Describes the tower’s capacity, including the number and type of
antennas that it can accommodate;
         (d)   Documents what steps the applicant will take to avoid
interference with established public safety telecommunications;
         (e)   Includes an engineer’s qualifications, stamp and registration
number; and
         (f)   Includes other information necessary to evaluate the request.
      (2)   Architectural drawings depicting the constructed tower with
camouflaging treatment set in the surrounding area. These drawings shall
include at least one perspective from the north, south, east and west;
      (3)   An overhead map of the site showing a one-mile radius of the
subject tower’s location, as well as the location of each existing
telecommunications facilities;
      (4)   For all commercial wireless telecommunication service towers, a
letter of intent committing the tower owner and successor(s) to allow the
shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use;
      (5)   Proof that the proposed tower complies with the regulations and
standards, including, without limitation, emission standards, promulgated by
the FAA, FCC, ANSI and IEEE;
      (6)   Proof of technological evidence which indicates that the height of
the tower requested is the minimum necessary to fulfill the cell site’s
function; and
      (7)   Proof of bond or financial security sufficient to provide for cost
of removal in the case of abandonment as described within this subchapter.
   (B)   Application contents. Each applicant requesting a permit shall submit
a completed application on a form provided by the County Code Administrator
accompanied by a sealed complete set of drawings prepared by a state-licensed
architect and engineer that shall include a site plan, elevation view, other
supporting drawings, calculations and other supporting documentation showing
the location and dimensions of the wireless communications facility and all
improvements associated therewith, including information concerning
specifications, antenna locations, equipment facilities and shelters.
   (C)   Application fees. Permits for placement of wireless telecommunication
facilities are required. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, the
procedures for the application for, approval of and revocation of such a permit
shall be those required in the county fee schedule as adopted by the County
Board. The County Code Administrator shall authorize the issuance of permits
required by this subchapter and shall collect the fees therein accordance with
the following:
      (1)   A non-refundable plan review fee due at plan submission;
      (2)   Fee for a new telecommunications facility shall be based on a set
fee per foot of the tower height;
      (3)   Fee for each multiple wireless telecommunication facilities
(maximum of 20) included in a single application to co-locate on existing
structures; and
      (4)   A single wireless telecommunication facility on an existing
structure fee.
(Ord. 11-21, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.254 BUILDING PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS.
   Thirty days prior to the issuance of a building permit for a facility
necessitating the erection of a new tower, the permit applicant shall provide
written notice of its intent to the following entities:
   (A)   Thirty days prior to the issuance of construct the facility to the
State Representative(s) and the State Senator(s) of the district in which the
subject facility is to be constructed and all County Board members of the
county;
   (B)   A public hearing notice shall be published at least 15 days before the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county;
   (C)   Notice of the public hearing shall also be sent by certified mail at
least 15 days prior to the hearing to the owners of record of all residential
property that is adjacent to the lot upon which the facility is proposed to be
sited;
   (D)   The county’s Public Safety Committee review of a building permit
application for a facility shall be completed within 30 days with their
recommendations to the County Board; and
   (E)   The County Board shall make its decision within 75 days after the
submission of a complete application by the telecommunications carrier.
(Ord. 11-21, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 150.255 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Tower construction requirements. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to erect, construct in a place, re-erect or replace any
tower without first making application to the County Code Administrator and
securing a permit therefor as herein provided.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide at the time of application sufficient
information to indicate that construction, installation and maintenance of the
antenna and tower will not create a safety hazard, damage to or interference
with the property of other persons.
      (2)   The extent to which the design of the proposed facility reflects
compliance with the following: No building or tower that is part of a facility
should encroach onto any recorded easement prohibiting the encroachment unless
the grantees of the easement have given their approval.
      (3)   Lighting should be installed for security and safety purposes only.
Except with respect to lighting required by the FCC or FAA, all lighting should
be shielded so that no glare extends substantially beyond the boundaries of a
facility.
      (4)   No facility shall encroach onto an existing septic field.
      (5)   Any facility located in a special flood hazard area or wetland
shall meet the legal requirements for those lands.
      (6)   Existing trees more than three inches in diameter should be
preserved if reasonable feasible during construction. If a tree more than three
inches in diameter is removed during construction, a tree three inches or more
in diameter of the same or similar species shall be planted as a replacement if
reasonably feasible. Tree diameter shall be measured at a point three feet
above the ground level.
      (7)   If any elevation of a facility faces an existing, adjoining
residential use within a residential area, low maintenance landscaping should
be provided on or near the facility lot to provide at least partial screening
of the facility. The quantity and type of that landscaping should be in
accordance with any county landscaping regulations of general applicability,
except that division (A)(5) above shall control over any tree-related
regulations imposing a greater burden.
      (8)   Fencing shall be installed around a facility. The height and
materials of the fencing shall be at least six feet in height and in accordance
with any county fence regulations.
      (9)    WCF with support structures shall be constructed to the
Telecommunications Industries Association ANSI/TIA-222-H Revision F Standard
entitled “Structural Standards for Steel Antennas, Towers and Antenna Support
Structures” (or equivalent), as it may be updated and amended from time to
time. Each support structure shall be capable of supporting multiple antenna
arrays. The tower shall be certified by a qualified and state-licensed
professional engineer to conform to the latest structural standards and wind
loading requirements of the International Building Code and the National
Electric Code as adopted by the County Board.
      (10)   Written documentation under a state-licensed engineer’s stamp to
verify the need for a guy-wire support tower when no other means of support
structure is available due to technical or engineering constraints.
      (11)   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service
connection lines, no part of any antenna or tower, nor any lines, cable,
equipment, wires or braces in connection with either, shall at any time extend
across or over any part of the right-of-way, public street, highway, sidewalk
or property line.
      (12)   All signal and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower and antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight feet above the ground at
all points unless buried underground.
      (13)   Towers shall comply with all applicable provisions of this code of
ordinances; an ordinance providing for the control of stormwater drainage and
detention, soil erosion, and sediment control within the unincorporated areas
of the county, being
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances; an ordinance regulating development in
the county floodplain areas, being
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances; and the International Property
Maintenance Code as adopted by the County Board, being §§
150.150 through
150.162.
      (14)   Antennas and towers in existence as of the adoption date of this
subchapter which do not conform to or comply with this subchapter are subject
to the following provisions:
         (a)   Towers may continue in use for the purpose now used and as now
existing, but may not be replaced or structurally altered without complying in
all respects with this subchapter; and
         (b)   If such towers are hereafter damaged or destroyed, due to any
reason or cause whatsoever, the tower may be repaired and restored to its
former use, location and physical dimensions upon obtaining a building permit
therefor, but without otherwise complying with this section, provided however,
that if the cost of repairing the tower to the former use, physical dimensions
and location would be 10% or more of the cost of a new tower of like kind and
quality, then the tower may not be repaired or restored, except in full in
compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Tower setbacks. Towers shall conform to the following minimum setback
requirements:
      (1)   Notwithstanding the general provisions of the applicable provisions
of the IBC Code and the Subdivision Ordinance, being
Chapter 156 of this code of ordinances, the required setback for a facilities
supporting structure or equipment housing shall not be less than 35 feet from
the front lot line of the facility lot or less than 15 feet from any other lot
line;
      (2)   Tower separation shall be at least 1,500 feet between new wireless
communication towers; and
      (3)   Separation distance to the nearest principal residential building
or structure located on the same parcel shall not be less than the height of
the supporting structure.
   (C)   Tower height.
      (1)   No new telecommunication facility shall exceed 200 feet in height,
except that if the facility is located more than one and one-half miles from
the corporate limits of any municipality with a population of 25,000 or more,
the height of the facility shall not exceed 350 feet. This includes antennas
and other supporting equipment.
      (2)   The horizontal separation distance to the nearest principal
building or structure on the same parcel shall not be less than the height of
the supporting structure.
      (3)   Above-ground equipment buildings shall be required to obtain a
building permit. The maximum size shall be 700 square feet and the maximum
height shall be 12 feet.
      (4)   A variation to this height may be granted by the County Board after
receiving an application to request a variation through the Public Safety
Committee, therefore holding a public meeting. The Public Safety Committee
shall make its recommendation to the County Board at a regular scheduled
meeting. The applicant must establish a clear and convincing evidence that he,
she or it will be unable to provide wireless communication services without
such a variation. Under no circumstances shall a tower be erected to a height
greater than that required to provide wireless communication services.
      (5)   A new or replacement antenna array may exceed up to five feet
horizontally beyond the edge of the attachment structure so long as the antenna
array does not encroach upon an adjoining parcel.
   (D)   Co-location requirements.
      (1)   Licensed carriers shall share personal telecommunication facilities
and sites whenever possible, thereby reducing the number of stand-alone
facilities.
      (2)   All support structures shall be designed so as not to preclude co-
location.
      (3)   Applicants shall demonstrate a good faith effort to co-locate with
other carriers. Such good faith effort includes demonstration by the applicant
to:
         (a)   Contract with other licensed carriers for commercial mobile
radio services operating in the county;
         (b)   Share information necessary to determine if co-location is
feasible under the design configuration most accommodating to co-location;
         (c)   Provide a written statement indicating the reasons why the
telecommunication project is not feasible as a co-location Site I the event co-
location is found not to be feasible; and
         (d)   Design and construct WCFs in a manner to allow future WCF co-
location opportunities, if feasible.
      (4)   The wireless provider shall install, maintain, repair and modify
its small wireless facilities in a safe condition and good repair and in
compliance with this subchapter.
      (5)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be not more
than ten feet above the support structure on which the small wireless facility
is co-located, or 45 feet above the ground.
      (6)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless facilities
shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for
public safety communications. Unacceptable interference will be determined by
and measured in accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations
addressing unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other
spectrum licensed by a public safety agency. The wireless provider, at its own
expense, shall remedy the interference win a manner consistent with the
abatement and resolution procedures for interference with public safety
spectrum established by the FCC, including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973
and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through 90.675.
   (E)   Tower lighting. Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means
and shall not display any strobe or flashing lights unless such lighting is
required by the Federal Aviation Administration or other federal or state
authority for a particular tower.
   (F)   Accessory utility buildings. All utility buildings and structures
accessory to a tower shall require a building permit be issued by the County
Code Administrator for the installation of all structures.
   (G)   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers. Abandoned or unused
towers or portions of towers shall be removed as follows.
      (1)   Within 30 days of its filing with the FCC, the owner of any
telecommunications facility shall provide the building official with a copy of
any notice of its intent to cease operations. Unless an extension is obtained
from the building official, the telecommunications tower and accessory
structures shall be removed within 90 days of the date operations cease.
      (2)   A copy of the relevant portions of a signed lease which requires
the applicant to remove the tower and associated facilities upon cessation of
operations at the site shall be submitted at the time of application. In the
event that a tower is not removed in a timely manner as provided herein, the
tower and associated facilities may be removed by the county and the cost of
the removal assessed as a lien on the premises or against a bond or other
financial security provided for herein.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide to the County Code Administrator
with written notice if it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within
the jurisdictional boundary of the county. Such notice shall include the name
and contact information of the new wireless provider.
(Ord. 11-21, passed 11-9-2021) Penalty, see
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for violations of any of the provisions of the codes being
adopted in this chapter shall be in accord with the jurisdictional fee schedule
adopted under §
150.154(E).
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any portion of the
International Property Code Maintenance or adopted ordinances shall, upon
conviction in the County Circuit Court, be subject to a fine of up to $750 per
violation. Each day that such violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
 
Fines
Failure to notify the Code Administrator of a required $100 plus court costs
inspection
Failure to obtain a commercial permit prior to         $500 plus court costs
construction
Failure to obtain a residential permit prior to        $250 plus court costs
construction
 
   (C)   The fine or penalty for violating any provisions of §§
150.250 through
150.255 shall, upon conviction in the Circuit Court, not exceed $750 for any
one specified offense or violation, provided that, if an act, omission or
condition prohibited or rendered unlawful is, in its nature, continuous in
respect to time, the fine or penalty for allowing the continuance thereof in
violation of §§
150.250 through
150.255 may not exceed $750 for each day of such unlawful continuation.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2019; Ord. 3, passed 11-9-2021; Ord. 11-21, passed 11-9-2021)
CHAPTER 151: COMMERCIAL ENERGY SOLAR SYSTEMS AND COMMERCIAL BATTERY ENERGY
STORAGE SYSTEMS
Section
Commercial Energy Solar Systems
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Prohibition
   
151.04   Commercial solar energy setbacks
   
151.05   Design standards
   
151.06   Application
   
151.07   Use of public roads
   
151.08   Applicable fees and special use application
   
151.09   Public hearing
   
151.10   Building permit procedure
   
151.11   Gates and locks
   
151.12   Enforcement and inspections
   
151.13   Decommissioning security costs
   
151.14   Remedial costs
   
151.15   Liability insurance
Commercial Battery Energy Storage Systems
   
151.30   Authority
   
151.31   Purpose
   
151.32   Definitions
   
151.33   Applicability
   
151.34   Prohibition
   
151.35   General requirements
   
151.36   Special use permit application
   
151.37   Design and installation
   
151.38   Operation
   
151.39   Liability insurance and indemnification
   
151.40   Decommissioning
   
151.41   Hearing facilitator
   
151.42   Hearing factors
   
151.43   Fee schedule and permitting process
   
151.44   Defaults and remedies
   
151.45   Interpretation
COMMERCIAL ENERGY SOLAR SYSTEMS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the commercial construction,
installation, and operation of solar energy facilities or other renewable
energy technologies in unincorporated Jersey County that promote economic
development and ensure the protection of health, safety, and welfare while also
avoiding adverse impacts to important areas such as agricultural lands,
endangered species habitats, conservation lands, and other sensitive lands.
This chapter governs the siting of commercial solar energy facilities and
substations that generate electricity to be sold to wholesale or retail
markets. This chapter does not apply to residential construction and is not
intended to replace safety, health, or environmental requirements contained in
other applicable codes, standards, or ordinances. The provisions of this
chapter shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or
federal law.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system whose primary purpose is
to harvest energy by transforming solar energy into another form of energy or
transferring heat from a collector to another medium using mechanical,
electrical or chemical means.
   APPLICANT. The entity or person who submits to the County Code Administrator
an application for the siting and operation of any commercial solar energy
facility or substation. All references to APPLICANT in this chapter shall
include APPLICANT'S successors-in-interest and assigns, which includes a
commercial solar energy facility permittee (as defined in this section).
   COMMERCIAL OPERATION DATE. The calendar date on which the commercial solar
energy facility produces power for commercial sale, not including test power.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY BUILDING PERMIT. A permit necessary for the
commencement of work performed toward the construction, erection or
installation of an approved commercial solar energy facility, substation,
supporting facilities, or operations and maintenance building in connection
with a commercial solar energy facility. A COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY BUILDING
PERMIT may be issued by the County Code Administrator after a commercial solar
energy facility has obtained a special use application and after the County
Board determines that all conditions, if any, have been satisfied that are
imposed by this chapter and the special use application. The COMMERCIAL SOLAR
ENERGY BUILDING PERMIT shall require the applicant to deliver a written "notice
to proceed" for the commercial solar energy facility to the County Code
Administrator prior to commencement of construction of the commercial solar
energy facility. The term "commencement of construction", as used in this
chapter, includes any site development work (e.g., demolition, grubbing,
grading, excavation, road work, construction of project-related structures or
infrastructure improvements, and the like) regarding the commercial solar
energy facility.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY or COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Herein
referred to as "CSEF" or "CSES". Any device or assembly of devices that is
ground-installed and uses solar energy from the sun for generating electricity
for the primary purpose of wholesale or retail sale and not primarily for
consumption on the property.
   COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY PERMITTEE. An applicant who applies for and
receives a commercial solar energy building permit under this chapter for the
siting and operation of any commercial solar energy facility or substation. All
references to a COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY PERMITTEE in this chapter
shall include a COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY PERMITEE'S successors-in-
interest and assigns.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE or FINANCIAL SECURITY or DECOMMISSION SECURITY.
Assurance from a credit worthy party, examples of which include a surety bond
(e.g., performance bond and payment bond), trust instrument, cash escrow, or
irrevocable letter of credit.
   GRID-INTERIM SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system that is
connected to an electric circuit served by an electrical company.
   NONPARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is not a participating
property. "Nonparticipating residence" means a residence that is located on
nonparticipating property and that is existing and occupied on the date when an
application for a permit to develop the commercial solar energy facility is
filed with the County Code Administrator.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED. A written document, named as such, stating that the
applicant expresses an intent to commence construction activities on a
commercial solar energy facility and identifying the date on which the
construction activities are scheduled to commence.
   OCCUPIED COMMUNITY BUILDING. Any one or more of the following buildings that
is existing and occupied on the date that the application for a permit to
develop the commercial solar energy facility is filed with the County Code
Administrator: a school, place of worship, day care facility, public library,
or community center.
   OFF-GRID SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A photovoltaic solar energy system in which
the circuits energized by the solar system are not electrically connected in
any way to electric circuits that are served by an electric utility company.
   OPERATOR. The entity responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of the development project, including any third party
subcontractors. The OPERATOR must be a qualified solar power professional. All
references to OPERATOR in this chapter shall include OPERATOR'S successors-in-
interest and assigns.
   OWNER. The entity or entities with an equity interest in a commercial solar
energy facility, including their respective successors and assigns. Owner does
not mean (a) the property owner from whom land is leased for locating the
project (unless the property owner has an equity interest in the project); or
(b) any person holding a security interest in the commercial solar energy
facility solely to secure an extension of credit, or a person foreclosing on
such security interest provided that after foreclosure, such person seeks to
sell a commercial solar energy facility at the earliest practicable date. This
definition includes the definition of facility owner as defined in 55 ILCS 5/5-
12020.
   PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is subject of a written agreement
between a facility owner of the real property that provides the facility owner
an easement, option, lease, or license to use the real property for the purpose
of constructing a commercial solar energy facility or supporting facilities.
PARTICIPATING PROPERTY also includes real property that is owned by a facility
owner for the purpose of constructing a commercial solar energy facility or
supporting facilities.
   PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. Real property that is located on participating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the commercial solar energy facility is filed with the
County Code Administrator.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A qualified individual who is licensed as a
professional engineer in the State of Illinois. Where a structural engineer is
required to take some action under terms of this chapter, a PROFESSIONAL
ENGINEER may serve as the structural engineer if he or she has the appropriate
structural engineering certification.
   PROTECTED LANDS. Real property that is subject to a permanent conservation
right consistent with the Real Property Conservation Rights Act or registered
or designated as a nature preserve, buffer, or land and water reserve under the
Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
   PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS. Land owned in fee title by county, state or
federal agencies and managed specifically for conservation purposes, including
but not limited to county, state and federal parks, state and federal wildlife
management areas, state scientific and natural areas, and federal wildlife
refuges and waterfowl protection areas. PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS do not
include private lands upon which conservation easements have been sold to
government agencies or non-profit conservation organizations. PUBLIC
CONSERVATION LANDS also do not include private lands for which the owners have
entered into contractual relationships with government or non-profit
conservation organizations for conservation purposes.
   SPECIAL USE APPLICATION. An application or the siting and operation of any
commercial solar energy facility or substation that consists of all
documentation and information contained in this chapter. The application is
filed with the County Code Administrator prior to a public hearing. A SPECIAL
USE APPLICATION is approved by the County Board after a public hearing,
allowing a particular use at a specified location subject to compliance with
certain specified special conditions as may be required by the County Board.
   SUPPORTING FACILITIES. The transmission lines, substations, access roads,
storage containers, and equipment associated with the generation and storage of
electricity by the commercial solar energy facility.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.03 PROHIBITION.
   No CSEF or substation governed by this chapter shall be constructed,
erected, installed, or located within the county, unless prior siting approval
has been obtained for each individual CSEF or for a group of CSEFs under a
joint siting application pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.04 COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SETBACKS.
   (A)   The CSEF shall be sited as follows, with setback distances measured
from the nearest edge of any component of the facility:
      (1)   Occupied community buildings and dwellings on nonparticipating
properties: 150 feet to the outside wall of the structure.
      (2)   Nonparticipating residences: 150 feet to the nearest point on the
outside wall of the structure.
      (3)   Boundary lines of participating property: none.
      (4)   Boundary lines of nonparticipating property: 50 feet to the nearest
point on the property line of the nonparticipating property.
      (5)   Public road rights-of-way: 50 feet to the nearest edge of the
public road right-of-way.
   (B)   The setback requirements for nonparticipating properties may be waived
by the written consent of the owner(s) of each affected nonparticipating
property.
   (C)   The applicant does not need to obtain a variance from the county upon
waiver by the property owner of any of the above setback requirements. Any
waiver of any of the above setback requirements shall run with the land and be
recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.05 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Facility equipment. Shall conform to applicable International Code
Council building codes and to other industry standards including the
International Code Council energy provisions and the American National
Standards Institute ("ANSI"). Applicants shall submit certificates from
equipment manufacturers that have obtained from Underwriters Laboratories
("UL") and/or an equivalent third party an assurance that the equipment is
manufactured in compliance with industry standards. All solar panels, cells and
modules, and solar panel mounts and racking, including any helical piles,
ground screws, ballasts, or other anchoring systems shall be new equipment
commercially available; no used or experimental equipment shall be used without
the approval of a variance by the County Board.
   (B)   Compliance with additional regulations. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant to coordinate with the FAA or other applicable federal or
state authority to attain any additional required approval for the installation
of a solar energy generation facility. The applicant shall submit with the
special use application an approval letter from any federal or state authority
requiring permit or approval.
   (C)   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines ("lines")
running between banks of solar panels shall be buried underground except from
point of interconnection to existing utility-owned, aboveground electrical
wires. The applicant shall submit with the special use application a copy of a
letter from the electric utility company confirming the review of the
application for interconnection has started.
   (D)   Minimum acreage. No CSES shall be erected in any lot less than 20
acres in size.
   (E)   Height. Systems, equipment, and structures shall not exceed 20 feet in
height above the ground at full tilt. Excluded from this height requirement,
however are electric transmission lines, utility poles, and other poles and
equipment used in connecting a ground-mounted piece of equipment to an electric
transmission line.
   (F)   Intra-project power and communication lines. All power lines used to
collect power and all communication lines shall be buried underground at a
depth in accordance with the agricultural impact mitigation agreement until
same reach the property line or a substation adjacent to the property line.
   (G)   Floodplain. No CSEF or substation parts and/or equipment for
construction or operation shall be permitted to be located in the designated
Jersey County floodplain determined by the current FEMA FIRM maps or as
determined by the Jersey County Certified Floodplain Manager.
   (H)   Security. Knox boxes and keys shall be provided at locked entrances
for emergency personnel access.
   (I)   Lighting. If lighting is provided at the site, lighting shall be
shielded and downcast so that the light does not spill onto adjacent parcels.
   (J)   Noise. Noise levels from CSEFs shall be in compliance with applicable
Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) regulations. The applicant shall submit
the manufacturer's sound power level characteristics and other relevant data
regarding noise characteristics necessary for a competent noise analysis. The
applicant, through the use of a qualified professional, shall appropriately
demonstrate compliance with the applicable noise requirements in its special
use application.
   (K)   Glare. Solar collectors shall be placed such that concentrated solar
radiation or glare does not project onto nearby structures, roadways or other
areas accessible to the public. The applicant has the burden of proving that
any glare produced does not have significant adverse impact on neighboring or
adjacent uses either through siting or mitigation.
   (L)   Fire safety. It is the responsibility of the applicant to coordinate
with the local fire protection district. The applicant shall submit with the
special use application an approval letter from the local fire protection
district.
   (M)   Warning signage. A visible warning sign of "high voltage" shall be
posted at all points of site ingress and egress and along the perimeter fence
of the facility, at a maximum of 300 feet apart. A sign that includes the
facility's 911 address and a 24-hour emergency contact number shall be posted
near all entrances to the facility.
   (N)   Endangered species and wetlands. Applicant shall seek natural resource
consultation with the Illinois Department of Natural Resources (IDNR). The
applicant shall submit with the special use application the results of the IDNR
EcoCAT consultation. The cost of the EcoCAT consultation and complete
environmental review shall be paid by the applicant. The completed report shall
be included with the special use application submission.
   (O)   Foundations. A qualified structural engineer licensed in the State of
Illinois shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels is
within accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate
conditions.
   (P)   Other standards and codes. All commercial solar energy facilities or
substations shall be in compliance with all applicable local, state and federal
regulatory standards, including the National Electric Code, as amended.
   (Q)   Agricultural impact mitigation. Pursuant to 505 ILCS 147/15(a), the
applicant, at its expense, shall enter into an agricultural impact mitigation
agreement ("AIMA") with the Illinois Department of Agriculture prior to any
public hearing required before a siting decision on the CSEF application. All
impacted agricultural land, whether impacted during construction, operation, or
decommissioning activities, must, at a minimum, be remediated by the applicant
pursuant to terms of the AIMA with the Illinois Department of Agriculture. The
applicant shall submit a copy of the standard agricultural impact mitigation
agreement fully executed between the landowner(s) and the Department of
Agriculture as part of the special use application.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.06 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by
personnel of the Jersey County Code Administrator office (herein referred to as
"Code Official"). The applicant must submit the following information ten
business days prior to the submittal of the special use application for a solar
farm. The applicant is required to submit 25 copies, one original full size
application package of all required documentation and one application with all
exhibits submitted electronically, to the Code Official, together with the
appropriate filing fee. The application shall include the following:
   (A)   Site plan with existing conditions showing the following:
      (1)   Existing property lines and property lines extending 100 feet from
the exterior boundaries, including the names of adjacent property owners and
current use of those properties;
      (2)   Existing public and private roads, showing widths of the roads and
any associated easements;
      (3)   Location and size of any abandoned wells or sewage treatment
systems;
      (4)   Existing buildings and any impervious surfaces;
      (5)   A contour map showing topography at two foot intervals. A contour
map of surrounding properties may also be required;
      (6)   Existing vegetation (list type and percent coverage, i.e.,
cropland/plowed fields, grassland, wooded areas, and the like);
      (7)   A copy of the current FEMA FIRM map that shows the subject
property, the 100 year flood elevation and any regulated flood protection
elevation, if available;
      (8)   Surface water drainage patterns; and
      (9)   The location of any subsurface drainage tiles.
   (B)   Site plan with proposed conditions showing the following:
      (1)   Location and spacing of solar panels;
      (2)   Location of access roads, access points, and rights-of-way that
will be utilized for both the construction and operation of the CSEF;
      (3)   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the CSEF to a building, substation or other electric load;
      (4)   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building or
substation that is to be the connection point to the CSEF;
      (5)   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting proposed
solar energy conversion system and its relationship to structure on adjacent
land;
      (6)   The location of any wetlands, floodplain, drainage structures
including surface ditches and subsurface drainage lines, underground mines,
scenic and natural areas within 1,500 feet of the proposed CSEF, and the layout
of all structures within the geographical boundaries of any applicable setback;
and
      (7)   Vegetative screening shall be provided for any part of the CSEF
that is visible to nonparticipating residences. The landscaping screen shall be
located between the required fencing and the property line of the participating
parcel upon which the facility sits. The vegetative screening shall include a
continuous line of native evergreen foliage and/or native shrubs and/or native
trees and/or any existing wooded area and/or plantings of tall native grasses
and other native flowering plants.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit an executed agreement between the CSEF
owner/operator and all road district authorities with infrastructure affected
by the CSEF to the county. This agreement shall include, at a minimum:
      (1)   A final map identifying the routes that will be used;
      (2)   A plan for repairing and/or restoring the affected roads; and
      (3)   Other inclusions as specified by the County Board or affected road
authority.
   (D)   Manufacturer's specifications and recommended installation methods for
all major equipment, including solar panels, mounting systems and foundations
for poles or racks.
   (E)   An itemized cost estimate for the entire construction of the project
such as the following (may not be all inclusive):
      (1)   Cabling, DC connectors and combiner boxes; all AC components;
      (2)   Racking and mounting system; foundations and material for
assembling and mounting the inverter;
      (3)   Fencing; camera security system; theft or fire protection
equipment;
      (4)   Grid voltage cables and connectors; switch gears and control
boards; transformers and stations; substation, housing and meters;
      (5)   All installation costs; trenching; transport costs;
      (6)   Electrical testing;
      (7)   Special inspections; construction labor costs; supervision costs;
monitoring costs; and
      (8)   Stormwater, erosion and drainage costs.
   (F)   A description of the method of connecting the array to a building or
substation.
   (G)   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service territory the system is located. Off-grid systems are
exempt from this requirement.
   (H)   Decommissioning plan. A decommissioning plan shall be required to
ensure that CSEFs are properly removed after their useful life.
      (1)   Decommissioning of solar panels must occur in the event that they
are not in use for 12 consecutive months.
      (2)   The owner/operator will have six months to complete the
decommissioning plan after operation of a CSEF stops being operational, or the
county will take the necessary decommission steps.
      (3)   The plan shall include provisions for removal of all structures
(including equipment, fencing and roads) and foundations, restoration of soil
and vegetation, and a plan ensuring financial resources will be available to
fully decommission the site.
      (4)   The Jersey County Board may require the posting of a bond, letter
of credit or establishment of an escrow account to ensure the proper
decommissioning. The posting of a bond may be required prior to the issuance of
a commercial solar energy facility permit for construction.
      (5)   Jersey County reserves the right to require additional information
or components to the plan as the county deems necessary to ensure that an
adequate proposal is in place to decommission the facility in its entirety and
that adequate funds are available. In the event that the State of Illinois
enacts a law with regards to the decommissioning of a solar farm, the strictest
requirements shall prevail.
   (I)   Complaint resolution. The applicant shall develop a process to resolve
any complaints that may arise from neighboring property owners during the
construction and operation of the solar farm. The process shall use an
independent mediator and shall include a time limit for acting on a complaint
that is received. The process shall not preclude the local government from
acting on a complaint. The applicant shall provide to the nearby residents a
toll-free phone number for complaints during the construction of the facility
if a problem should arise. Applicants will respond to all complaints from
persons directly affected by the commercial project within 48 hours, will
attempt to resolve all complaints in a prompt and responsible manner, will keep
a log of all complaints and the method of resolution, will make the log
available to the county, and will agree to participate in a non-binding
mediation for complaints that are not resolved, with the cost of such to be
paid directly by the applicant.
   (J)   Material changes to the application are not permitted once the notice
of the public hearing has been published, unless requested or permitted by the
county.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.07 USE OF PUBLIC ROADS.
   (A)   An applicant proposing to use any county, municipality, township or
village road(s) for the purpose of transporting CSES or substation parts and/or
equipment for construction, operation or maintenance of the CSEF or substation
(s), shall:
      (1)   Identify all such public roads; and
      (2)   Obtain applicable weight and size permits from relevant government
agencies prior to construction.
   (B)   To the extent an applicant must obtain a weight or size permit from
the county, municipality, township or village, the applicant shall:
      (1)   Conduct a pre-construction baseline survey to determine existing
road conditions for assessing potential future damage;
      (2)   Any proposed public roads that will be used for construction
purposes shall be identified and approved in writing by the respective Road
District Commissioner and the County Engineer prior to the granting of the
special use application. Traffic for construction purposes shall be limited to
these roads. All overweight and/or oversized loads to be transported on public
roads may require a permit from the respective highway authority. Any road
damage caused by the transport of the facility's equipment, or the
installation, maintenance, or removal of said equipment, must be completely
repaired to the reasonable satisfaction of the Road District Commissioner and
the County Engineer. The Road District Commissioner and County Engineer may
choose to require either remediation of road repair upon completion of the CSEF
or are authorized to collect fees for overweight and/or oversized load permits.
Further, financial assurance, in an amount to be fixed by the Road District
Commissioner or County Engineer to assure the road district or the county that
future repairs are completed to their reasonable satisfaction, shall be
provided. The applicant shall submit a draft form of said financial assurance
with special use application;
      (3)   Enter into a road use agreement with the county and each affected
road district that includes the following provisions, at a minimum:
         (a)   Project layout map;
         (b)   Transportation impact analysis;
         (c)   Pre-construction plans;
         (d)   Project traffic map;
         (e)   Project scope of repairs;
         (f)   Post-construction repairs;
         (g)   Insurance;
         (h)   Financial security in forms and amounts acceptable to the
county; and
         (i)   The road use agreement shall require the applicant to be
responsible for the reasonable cost of improving roads used to construct a CSEF
and the reasonable cost of repairing roads used by the facility owner during
construction of the commercial solar energy facility so that those roads are in
a condition that is safe for the driving public after the completion of the
commercial solar energy facility construction; and
      (4)   All repairs and improvements to public roads and roadway
appurtenance shall be subject to the prior approval of the county before being
made and shall also be subject to inspection and acceptance by the county after
such repairs and improvements are completed. The county's road use agreement,
and any further agreements contemplated therein, regarding the maintenance and
repair of public roads and highways, must be approved by the County Board prior
to the issuance of any commercial solar energy building permit related to the
construction of the proposed commercial solar energy facility.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.08 APPLICABLE FEES AND SPECIAL USE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon submittal of a special use permit application for a solar farm,
the applicant shall submit a non-refundable filing fee as listed in the Jersey
County Fee Schedule that will be utilized to review and assess the application.
Should the actual costs to the county exceed the current fee, the applicant
shall be responsible for those additional costs, including, but not limited to
the costs of outside attorneys, hearing officer, and consultants (e.g. noise
engineers, traffic engineers, and environmental consultants), and shall remit
additional funds to the county within 15 days of receipt of request from the
county.
   (B)   County Code Administrator responsibilities.
      (1)   Accept and date stamp the application was filed. The date stamp
should be considered the official filing date for all time purposes. Receipt
and acceptance of an application by the Code Official is pro forma, and does
not constitute an acknowledgment that the applicant has complied with this
chapter.
      (2)   The Code Official shall forward the application to the County
Engineer for a determination of completeness.
      (3)   The Code Official shall make available a copy of the application
and public record concerning the application for public inspection during the
normal business hours of the county offices. Additionally, the Code Official
shall provide to any person so requesting copies of the application or the
public record upon payment by such persons for the actual cost of reproduction.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.09 PUBLIC HEARING.
   After the filing of an application, the Code Official shall make a
preliminary determination of completeness of the application. If, in the Code
Official's opinion, the application has addressed the required elements of an
application, it will be forwarded to the County Engineer and the Subdivision
and Land Use Committee to conduct a public hearing on the application. If the
application is incomplete, the applicant will be notified and the application
will not proceed to hearing unless good cause is shown for the incompleteness.
   (A)   Notice. The applicant must provide a complete list of all properties
adjacent to a proposed solar farm. The applicant shall have a notice issued to
every owner of those properties by certified mail, registered mail, or personal
service at the last known address of such owner of a property as identified by
the county tax records. The notice will identify the nature of the proposed use
and the date that a public hearing shall occur on the proposed use at the
Subdivision and Land Use Committee, and that any person may make an appearance
to participate in that hearing. Those notices must be served at least 15 days
before the public hearing. The applicant shall provide evidence of notification
or evidence of a "good faith" effort to contact the property owner prior to the
hearing if requested by the Code Official. The hearing notice shall also be
published in a circulation of general publication at least three times before
the hearing commences, with the first publication occurring at least 30 days
before the hearing and at least one publication occurring between seven and 15
days before the hearing commences.
   (B)   Subdivision and Land Use Committee. The Committee members shall
preside over the public hearing; establish a record of the proceedings; and
make decisions concerning the admission of the evidence and the manner in which
the hearing is conducted. The Chairperson of the Committee will make a
recommendation and proposed findings to the full Board at the next regular
scheduled meeting. At the commencement of the public hearing people wishing to
provide a public comment will be identified by a sign in sheet.
   (C)   Committee and County Board action. The Subdivision and Land Use
Committee will consider the following facts:
      (1)   Whether the application and proposed solar farm project
substantially complies with this chapter.
      (2)   Whether the proposed solar farm project is sufficiently protective
of the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of Jersey County.
      (3)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall tender its findings
and recommendations to the County Board. The committee may recommend approval,
approval with request for additional information or clarification, approval
with conditions, or denial. Within 30 days of the conclusion of the public
hearing, the County Board will meet in public session and render its decision.
The County Board may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application.
   (D)   Re-filing. Any applicant, owner or operator whose solar farm project
application is denied may not re-file a substantially similar application for
one year. If the County Code Official determines an application is
substantially similar to one the applicant filed within one year, it will not
be forwarded to the Subdivision and Land Use Committee or the County Board for
review.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.10 BUILDING PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   Building applications shall be submitted to the Code Official. The
application shall be on a form approved by the Code Official and must be
accompanied by two copies of the following:
   (A)   Address of property; date of application (911 address required);
   (B)   Applicant's name, address, and contact information;
   (C)   Property owner’s name, address, phone number, and email;
   (D)   Company name (if different from applicant), contact information,
mailing address, and email;
   (E)   Site drawing that shows the proposed location and distance of the
commercial solar energy facility with reference to property lines of the
parcel; right-of-way of any road; residence; business; or public building;
   (F)   Final construction plans prepared and sealed by a structural engineer
licensed in Illinois;
   (G)   Building permit fee payable by check to "Jersey County" (refer to the
Jersey County Fee Schedule);
   (H)   The applicant shall provide standard manufacturer's specifications and
recommended installation methods for all major equipment, including solar
panels, mounting systems and foundations for poles and rack. Specifications for
the actual equipment to be used in the CSES shall be required before a building
permit is issued. The Illinois Power Agency Act (20 ILCS 3855/1-1) requires
that all systems (utility scale, distributed and community solar) are installed
by qualified installers. This requirement is regulated by the Illinois Commerce
Commission;
   (I)   A description of the method of connecting the CSES to a building or
substation;
   (J)   FAA requirements. For any CSES to be located within 500 feet of an
airport or within approach zones of an airport, the applicant shall complete
and provide the results of the Solar Glare Hazard Analysis Tool (SGHAT) for the
airport traffic control tower cab and final approach paths, consistent with the
Interim Policy, FAA Review of Commercial Solar Energy Projects on Federal
Obligated Airports, or most recent version adopted by the FAA; and
   (K)   Land habitat. A landscape plan shall be submitted which shall
incorporate native grasses, flowers, and plants which will provide wild life
and pollinator habitat, soil erosion protection and/or aid in strengthening the
soil structure. This plan shall be for all other areas of the CSES that will
not interfere with the solar arrays.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.11 GATES AND LOCKS.
   Perimeter chain-linked fencing having a minimum height of six feet shall be
installed, maintained, and secured around the boundary of the CSES. The fence
shall contain appropriate warning signage that is posted such that it is
clearly visible on the site.
   (A)   All gates to the fences of solar farms shall be at least six feet in
height and shall additionally have at least three strands of barbed wire run
above such six feet.
   (B)   All gates to the fences of all solar farms shall be equipped with
locks and shall remain locked at all times except for those times when the
owner and/or operator, or their respective agents, is/are using the gate for
ingress and/or egress or is/are otherwise present and monitoring the solar farm
(s).
   (C)   All gates to fences of all solar farms shall be constructed so as to
substantially lessen the likelihood of entry into a solar farm by unauthorized
individuals.
   (D)   The gates and barbed wire required hereunder shall be maintained in
good condition. Failure to maintain the gates required hereunder shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (E)   The gate, barbed wire and lock requirements specified hereunder shall
continue notwithstanding the fact that a solar farm is no longer operational
and/or falls into disuse unless and until such solar farm is dismantled and
removed from the parcel or parcels of land upon which it was constructed.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.12 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by
personnel of the Jersey County Code Administrator Office (herein referred to as
the "Code Official") through an inspection of the solar farm every year. The
Code Official and his/her designee are hereby granted the power and authority
to enter upon the premises of the solar farm at any time by coordinating a
reasonable time with the operator and/or owner of the facility. Any person,
firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply
with, or resists the enforcement of any provisions in this section may face
fines of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for each offense. A separate and
distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day the violation remains
uncorrected.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.13 DECOMMISSIONING SECURITY COSTS.
   The plan shall ensure financial resources equal to 125% of the entire cost
of decommission, and approved by the Code Official and the state's attorney, in
a surety performance bond that is readily convertible into cash at face value
and that names Jersey County and its officials as the insured. This surety
shall be retained by the county to cover the cost of the decommissioning
requirements herein. Following initial submittal of the surety, the cost
calculation shall be reviewed bi-annually, and adjusted accordingly based upon
an updated estimate, excluding the salvage value, by an Illinois licensed
engineer under seal; provided however, that any such periodic adjustment must
be approved by the County Board. The county shall hire the engineer and the
applicant shall be required to cover the cost. Failure to comply with any
requirement of this section shall result in the immediate termination and
revocation of all prior approvals and permits; further, the county shall be
entitled to make immediate demand upon, and/or retain any proceeds of, the
surety, which shall be used for decommissioning and/or removal of the solar
energy facility, even if still operational.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.14 REMEDIAL COSTS.
   Applicants and/or owners of commercial solar energy facilities shall pay all
costs associated with the remedy of any complaints deemed necessary and factual
by the Jersey County Code Administrator or the Jersey County Board.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
§ 151.15 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The owner or operator of the solar project shall maintain a current and
general comprehensive liability and automobile policy covering bodily injury
and property damage with limits of at least $5,000,000 per occurrence and
$20,000,000 in the aggregate. The owner or operator of the solar project shall
maintain this policy for the lifetime of the solar project and submit a copy of
the same to the Jersey County Board at each renewal. The County of Jersey and
its officials shall be named as additional insureds.
(Ord. passed 5-9-2023)
COMMERCIAL BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS
§ 151.30 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to § 5/5-12001 of the Illinois Counties
Code (55 ILCS 5/5-12001), which authorizes the county to adopt provisions that
advance and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare of the community.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.31 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to advance and protect the public health, safety,
morals, comfort and general welfare of the county and its residents by creatng
regulatons for the installaton and use of battery energy storage systems
(BESS), with the following objectives:
   (A)   To provide a regulatory scheme for the designaton of properties
suitable for the locaton, constructon and operaton of any BESS;
   (B)   To ensure compatble land uses in the vicinity of the areas affected by
any BESS;
   (C)   To mitgate the impacts of any BESS on environmental resources such as
important agricultural lands, forests, wetlands, wildlife and other protected
lands and resources; and
   (D)   Further, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein,
the term BESS shall not be construed in such a way that would cause a person to
be denied permission by the county to install a battery energy storage system
as a substtute for traditonal energy for water heatng, actve space heatng and
cooling, passive heatng, or storing electricity for residental or agriculture
use.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.32 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning
indicated.
   ANSI. The American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. The entity who submits to the county a special use permit
application for the siting and operation of any battery energy storage system
(BESS).
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. The County Code Administrator.
   BATTERY or BATTERIES. A single cell or a group of cells connected together
electrically in series, in parallel, or a combination of both, which can
charge, discharge and store energy electrochemically or otherwise. For the
purposes of this chapter, batteries utilized in consumer products are excluded
from these requirements.
   BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. An electronic system that protects
energy storage systems from operating outside their safe operating parameters,
and disconnects electrical power to the energy storage system, or places it in
a safe condition, if potentially hazardous temperatures or other conditions are
detected.
   BATTERY ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEM(S) (BESS). An energy storage system that can
store and deploy generated energy (greater than 2 MW AC), typically a group of
batteries that charge (i.e., collect energy) and store electrical energy from
the grid or an energy generation facility, and then discharge that energy at a
later time to provide electricity or other grid services when needed. A BESS
generally consists of batteries, battery storage and supervisory control and
data acquisition systems.
   CAPABILITY. The ability, knowledge, experience, resources and financial
viability to complete the project.
   CELL. The basic electrochemical unit, characterized by an anode and a
cathode, used to receive, store and deliver electrical energy.
   COMMISSIONING. The systematic process that provides documented confirmation
that a BESS functions according to the intended design criteria and complies
with applicable code requirements
   DECOMMISSIONING. To return the property or site back to its pre-installation
state or better, as approved by a decommissioning plan entered into with the
county.
   DEDICATED-USE BUILDING. A building that is built for the primary purpose of
housing BESS equipment, and complies with the following:
      (1)   The building’s only use is battery energy storage, energy
generation and other electrical grid-related operations;
      (2)   No other occupancy types are permitted in the building;
      (3)   Occupants in the rooms and areas containing a BESS are limited to
personnel that operate, maintain, service, test and repair the BESS and other
energy systems;
      (4)   Administrative and support personnel are permitted in areas within
the buildings that do not contain a BESS, provided the following:
         (a)   The areas do not occupy more than 10% of the building area of
the story in which they are located.
         (b)   A means of egress is provided from the administrative and
support use areas to the public way that does not require occupants to traverse
through areas containing a BESS or other energy system equipment.
   DISTANCE. The extent or amount of space between points, measured in the
units of feet and on a level plane.
   ENERGY CODE. The Illinois Power Agency Act (20 ILCS 3855/1-1 et seq.), as
currently in effect and as hereafter amended from time to time.
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE. Reasonable assurance from a credit-worthy party
satisfactory to the county, and in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit,
that any and all damages due to construction, operation, maintenance and/or
commissioning related to the BESS project will be repaired and/or that the
project will be fully decommissioned.
   FIRE CODE. The fire code as adopted by the State of Illinois, as currently
in effect and as hereafter amended from time to time.
   HEARING FACILITATOR. A hearing facilitator, not affiliated with any pro-BESS
or anti-BESS group, whose services the county may unilaterally engage to
preside over any required hearings resulting from an application related to the
siting of a BESS.
   LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A qualified individual who is licensed as a
professional engineer in the State of Illinois.
   LICENSED STRUCTURAL ENGINEER. A qualified individual who is licensed as a
structural engineer in the State of Illinois.
   LIKE-KIND REPLACEMENT. A BESS or associated equipment that meets or exceeds
the standards and specifications of the BESS or equipment being replaced, and
complies with the applicable terms and conditions of this chapter.
   NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED TESTING LABORATORY (NRTL). A United States Department
of Labor designation recognizing a private sector organization to perform
certification for certain products to ensure that they meet the requirements of
both the construction and general industry Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) electrical standards.
   NEC. The National Electric Code.
   NFPA. The National Fire Protection Association.
   NON-PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Any property that is not a participating
property.
   NON-PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. Any residence located on non-participating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that a special use
permit application is filed with the county.
   OCCUPIED COMMUNITY BUILDING. Any one or more of the following buildings that
is existing and occupied on the date that a special use permit application is
filed with the county: a school, a place of worship, a day care facility, a
public library or a community center.
   OPERATING PERMIT. A permit that must be issued (according to approval by the
county’s Code Administrator) after the construction of any BESS is
substantially complete, and prior to the commercial operation date of the BESS,
in order to store and sell energy.
   OPERATOR. The entity responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of the BESS and associated equipment, including any third-party
subcontractors.
   OWNER. An entity with an equity interest in the BESS, including respective
successors and assignees, or an entity that becomes an owner through
foreclosure. OWNER does not mean the property owner from whom land is leased
for locating the BESS, unless the property owner has an equity interest in the
BESS, or any person holding a security interest in the BESS solely to secure an
extension of credit.
   PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. A BESS host property or any real property that is
the subject of a written agreement that provides the BESS owner an easement,
option, ease or license to use the real property for the purpose of
constructing a BESS or associated equipment/supporting facilities on the
property.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE. For each property, the structure that one or more persons
occupy the majority of time on that property, for either business or personal
reasons, including, buy not limited to, structures such as residences,
commercial buildings, hospitals, churches, day care facilities, schools and
agricultural buildings/structures.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit approved by the County Board, after public
hearing on a complete written application, allowing a particular use at a
specified location subject to compliance with certain specified special
conditions as may be required by the County Board.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.33 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any BESS permited,
installed, or modified (operating greater than 2MW AC) in the county after the
effective date of this chapter. Any BESS connected or integrated into a
commercial solar energy facility or commercial wind energy facility shall be
governed by the requirements of all applicable solar or wind regulations.
   (B)   Modifications to, retrofits or replacements of an existing BESS that
increase the total designed discharge duration or power rating shall be subject
to this chapter. Any BESS that intends to modify, retrofit or replace any
existing equipment that increases the designed discharge duration or power
rating must apply for an amended special use permit prior to modifying,
retrofitting or replacing that equipment.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.34 PROHIBITION.
   No BESS governed by this chapter shall be transported, constructed, erected,
installed, located or operated within the county, unless:
   (A)   A special use permit has been granted by the County Board and a
building permit has been issued for each individual BESS or for a group of BESS
under a joint-siting application pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   All road use agreements and decommissioning agreements have been
entered into with each applicable governmental agency, and all required
financial assurances have been posted and provided to the county/applicable
governmental agency.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.35 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Following the granting of a special use permit by the County Board,
and compliance with any and all conditions is met, the applicant is eligible to
apply for a building permit(s) for the project.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of any building permit(s), an interconnection
agreement must be completed with the electric utility in whose service
territory the project is located.
   (C)   Actual on-site construction must commence within one year of the
granting of a special use permit; if not completed or otherwise, any permit(s)
previously issued will no longer be valid.
   (D)   The failure to obtain the required building permit(s) or other permit
(s) shall be a violation of this chapter. A building permit shall be issued
only after an application has been submitted and approval has been granted by
the county’s Code Administrator.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.36 SPECIAL USE PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant must submit a special use permit application to the
County Code Administrator for review, public hearing and recommendation by the
Subdivision and Land Use Commitee. Approval or denial of all applications shall
be made by the County Board.
   (B)   Once the notice of public hearing has been published, material changes
to the application are not permitted unless requested or otherwise permited by
the county.
   (C)   Ten paper copies and ten electronic copies of the application must be
submitted to the County Code Office.
   (D)   Financial assurance in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit is
required to assure the construction, installation and completion of the project
or improvements. Such financial assurance (irrevocable letter of credit) shall
be provided by the applicant prior to the application for and the issuance of a
building permit for the BESS, and shall be in such amount as is determined to
be 110% of the estimated project cost.
   (E)   The application shall contain or be accompanied by the following
information.
      (1)   A site plan for the BESS showing the planned location of the BESS
and all related components, including legal descriptions for each site,
participating and nonparticipating residences, primary structures, occupied
community buildings, parcel boundary lines (including identification of
adjoining properties), setback lines and layout of all structures within the
geographical boundaries of an applicable setback, public and private access
roads and turnout locations, the location of any construction staging areas,
including concrete batch plants, substation(s), operations and maintenance
buildings, ancillary equipment, electrical cabling to substation(s) and/or
energy generation facility, guy lines and anchor bases, and above- or below-
ground transmission lines, third-party transmission lines, the location of any
wetlands, flood plain, drainage structures (including surface ditches and
subsurface drainage features and a drain tile survey), lakes, ponds, streams,
archaeological sites, underground mines and scenic and natural areas within
1,500 feet of the proposed project.
      (2)   An itemized cost estimate for the entire construction of the
project such as the following (may not be all inclusive):
         (a)   All batteries, connecting equipment, battery housing and
shelters;
         (b)   Cabling, DC connectors and combiner boxes; all AC components;
         (c)   Any and all equipment pertaining to the BESS system;
         (d)   Fencing, camera security system, theft or fire protection
equipment;
         (e)   Grid-voltage cables and connectors, switch gears and control
boards, transformers and stations, substation, housing and meters.
         (f)   All installation costs, trenching and transport costs;
         (g)   Electrical testing;
         (h)   Special inspections, construction labor costs, supervision and
monitoring costs;
         (i)   Stormwater, erosion and drainage costs.
      (3)   A project summary, including, to the extent available.
         (a)   A general description of the project, including, but not limited
to:
            1.   The approximate total power capacity, energy capacity and
discharge duration of the BESS;
            2.   The type(s) of battery or batteries used and their potential
manufacturer(s);
            3.   A preliminary equipment specification sheet that documents the
proposed BESS components, inverters and associated electrical equipment to be
installed;
            4   The maximum height of any battery storage container, racking
system or dedicated-use building;
            5.   An electrical diagram detailing the BESS layout, associated
components and electrical interconnection methods, with all NEC-compliant
disconnects and over-current devices;
            6.   A project site plan, project phasing plan and project
construction plan;
            7.   The general location of the project;
         (b)   A description of the applicant, owner(s) and operator, including
their respective business structures;
         (c)   The names, addresses and phone numbers of the applicant, owner
(s), operator, and all property owners who have signed a lease agreement; and
information as to whether the applicant is acting for itself or as an agent,
alter ego, or representative of a principal, and the name and address of the
principal. Whether the applicant is a corporation and of all stockholders or
shareholders owning any interest in excess of 20% of all of the outstanding
stock or shares of the corporation. Whether the applicant, or its principal, is
a business or entity doing business under an assumed name, and if so, the name
and residence of all actual owners of the business or entity. Whether the
applicant, or its principal, is a partnership, joint venture, syndicate or
unincorporated voluntary association, and if so, the names and addresses of all
partners or members of the partnership, joint venture, syndicate or
unincorporated voluntary association.
      (4)   Individual inventory designations for each BESS and substation for
reference in building permits.
      (5)   All required studies, reports, certifications, waivers and
approvals demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   A proposed decommissioning plan.
      (7)   An agricultural impact mitigation agreement (AIMA) executed between
the applicant and the Illinois Department of Agriculture, if available.
      (8)   Results and recommendations from the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources (IDNR) obtained through the Ecological Compliance Assessment Tool
(EcoCAT) or a comparable successor tool.
      (9)   Results of any United States Fishing and Wildlife Service’s
information for planning and consulting environmental review, or a comparable
successor tool, that is consistent with applicable the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service’s energy development wildlife guidelines.
      (10)   Information demonstrating the BESS will avoid protected lands.
      (11)   An electrical diagram detailing the BESS layout, associated
components and electrical interconnection methods, with all NEC-compliant
disconnects and over-current devices.
      (12)   A preliminary equipment specification sheet that documents the
proposed BESS components, inverters, and associated electrical equipment to be
installed. A final equipment specification sheet shall be submitted prior to
the issuance of any building permit.
      (13)   A fire safety compliance plan documenting and verifying that the
BESS and its associated equipment, controls and safety systems are in
compliance with all state and federal codes.
      (14)   An operation and maintenance manual that describes continuing BESS
maintenance and property upkeep, as well as design, construction, installation,
testing and commissioning information that meets all requirements set forth in
this chapter.
      (15)   Erosion and sediment control, storm water and effluent management
plans, prepared to Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) and Illinois
Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) standards, if applicable, and to such
standards as may be established by the county.
      (16)   A noise-modeling report demonstrating compliance with Illinois
Pollution Control Board (IPCB) standards.
      (17)   A preliminary emergency management plan.
      (18)   A drain-tile survey.
      (19)   Sufficient documentation that the applicant, owner, company and
parent company have the capability to complete the BESS projects proposed.
      (20)   Any good-neighbor plan, property-value-guarantee plan or other
financial-incentive plans associated with the proposed project, and a copy of
each plan(s).
      (21)   Any other information normally required by the County Code
Administrator as part of its permitting requirements.
      (22)   Any other informaton requested by the County Code Administrator or
county consultants necessary to evaluate the application and proposed project,
and to demonstrate that the proposed project meets all applicable regulations.
   (F)   Public hearing. After the filing of an application, the County Code
Administrator shall make a preliminary determination of its completeness. If,
in the County Code Administrator’s opinion, the application has addressed its
required elements, it will be forwarded to the County Engineer and the
Subdivision and Land Use Committee to conduct a public hearing on the
application. If the application is incomplete, the applicant will be notified
and the application will not proceed to hearing unless good cause is shown for
the incompleteness.
      (1)   Notice. The applicant must provide a complete list of all
properties adjacent to a proposed BESS. The applicant shall have a notice
issued to every owner of those properties by certified mail, registered mail,
or personal service at the last known address of the owner of a property as
identified by the county tax records. The notice will identify the nature of
the proposed use and the date that a public hearing shall occur on the proposed
use at the Subdivision and Land Use Committee, and that any person may make an
appearance to participate in that hearing. Those notices must be served at
least 15 days before the public hearing. The applicant shall provide evidence
of notification or evidence of a “good faith” effort to contact the property
owner prior to the hearing if requested by the County Code Administrator. The
hearing notice shall also be published in a circulation of general publication
at least three times before the hearing commences, with the first publication
occurring at least 30 days before the hearing, and at least one publication
occurring between seven and 15 days before the hearing commences.
      (2)   Subdivision and Land Use Committee. The Committee members shall
preside over the public hearing; establish a record of the proceedings, make
decisions concerning the admission of the evidence and the manner in which the
hearing is conducted. The Chairman of the Committee will make a recommendation
and proposed findings to the full Board at the next regular scheduled meeting.
At the commencement of the public hearing, people wishing to provide a public
comment will be identified by a sign-in sheet.
      (3)   Committee and County Board Action. 
         (a)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee will consider the
following facts:
            1.   Whether the application and proposed BESS project
substantially complies with this chapter;
            2.   Whether the proposed BESS project is sufficiently protective
of the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of county.
         (b)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall tender its findings
and recommendations to the County Board. The Committee may recommend approval,
approval with request for additional information or clarification, approval
with conditions, or denial.
         (c)   Within 30 days of the conclusion of the public hearing, the
County Board will meet in public session and render its decision. The County
Board may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application.
      (4)   Refiling. Any applicant, owner or operator whose BESS project
application is denied may not refile a substantially similar application for
one year. If the County Code Administrator determines an application is
substantially similar to one the applicant filed within one year, it will not
be forwarded to the Subdivision and Land Use Committee or the County Board for
review.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.37 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Setbacks. Setbacks shall be:
      (1)   Two hundred feet from the parcel line;
      (2)   Two hundred feet from any public right-of-way; and
      (3)   Five hundred feet from any non-partcipatng residental structure or
occupied community building.
   (B)   Height. BESS and its associated equipment, including containers,
racking systems, and dedicated-use buildings, shall be restricted to thirty-
five feet in height.
   (C)   Fencing requirements. BESS and its associated equipment shall be
enclosed by a fence at least ten feet in height, with a locking gate to prevent
unauthorized access, unless housed in a dedicated-use building.
   (D)   Screening and visibility. BESS shall have views minimized from all
residences and adjacent properties, using architectural features, earth berms,
landscaping or other screening methods.
   (E)   Safety.
      (1)   Emergency management. The applicant shall submit a preliminary
emergency management plan as part of its applicaton for a special use permit.
The applicant shall submit a final emergency management plan with its building
permit applicaton, which must be approved by the County ESDA Director prior to
the issuance of a building permit.
      (2)   System certification. 
         (a)   Any BESS and its associated equipment shall be listed by a
natonally recognized testng laboratory to UL 9540 (the current standard for
BESS and equipment) or approved equivalent, with subcomponents also meetng
natonally recognized standards, certfied under the applicable electrical,
building and fire preventon codes as required.
         (b)   Alternatively, field evaluation by an approved testing
laboratory for compliance with UL 9540 (or approved equivalent) and applicable
codes, regulations and safety standards may be used to meet system
certification requirements.
         (c)   All electrical components of any BESS shall conform to
applicable local, state, and national codes and to relevant national and
international standards (e.g., ANSI and International Electrical Commission).
Utility lines connecting to energy sources, substations, and the like, shall be
placed underground, where practical. All electrical wire and lines connecting a
BESS, to another BESS or to substation must be installed no less than six feet
deep. The owner/operator of the BESS shall be a member of J.U.L.I.E (Joint
Utility Locating Information for Excavators) and follow its rules and
regulations. During the installation and before wires and lines are covered,
there must be an inspection for compliance by an independent inspector chosen
by the applicant and paid for by the owner/operator.
         (d)   If there is damage to any battery component(s), the damaged
material(s) must be segregated from other bateries to halt any potential
thermal runaway.
   (F)   Signage.
      (1)   All signage shall be made with letters and numbers at least three
inches in height, with a light-reflective surface.
      (2)   Warning signs concerning voltage must be placed at all entrances of
the BESS.
      (3)   An emergency sign listing the 9-1-1 address shall be placed and
maintained by the owner/operator at the entrance to each BESS access road from
a public road. A sign or posting no more than four square feet in area shall be
placed and maintained, with a toll-free telephone number for emergency calls
answered by a live operator 24 hours a day, seven days per week.
      (4)   A non-emergency phone number for the operator shall also be
displayed for informational inquiries.
      (5)   These phone numbers shall remain active, with all calls being voice
recorded for verification purposes, and with comments and complaints logged and
reported to the County Code Office on a monthly basis.
      (6)   The recorded calls shall be maintained for at least 12 months.
      (7)   Current phone numbers shall be maintained. Local agency response
shall be reimbursed by the project owner(s).
      (8)   Upon completion of the construction of an approved BESS project, a
reasonable, visible sign to warn people to not approach while operating must be
placed at the entrance of each access road.
      (9)   Warning signs identifying underground wire locations shall be
placed at all road, creek, waterway and ditch crossings. All underground wire
locations shall be GPS-mapped and given to the local GIS Office and J.U.L.I.E.
   (F)   Lighting. Lighting of the BESS shall comply with the provisions/
guidance provided by the International Dark-Sky Association, shall be limited
to that minimally required for safety and operational purposes, and shall be
reasonably shielded and downcast from all residences and adjacent properties.
   (G)   Vegetation and tree cutting. Areas within 20 feet on each side of a
BESS shall be cleared of combustible vegetation and other combustible growth.
   (H)   Noise. Noise generated from the BESS, components and associated
ancillary equipment shall not exceed Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB)
limits.
   (I)   Site access.
      (1)   BESS shall be maintained in good working order and in accordance
with industry standards. Site access shall be maintained, including snow
removal at a level acceptable to the local fire department and, if applicable,
the local ambulance district.
      (2)   BESS, components and associated ancillary equipment shall have
required working space clearances, and electrical circuitry shall be within
weatherproof enclosures marked with the environment rating suitable for
exposure in compliance with NFPA 70E.
   (J)   Agriculture damage repair. All damages to waterways, drainage ditches,
field tiles or any other infrastructures caused by the construction,
maintenance or decommissioning of the BESS must be completely repaired or
replaced to an acceptable state within a reasonable amount of time determined
by the property owner.
   (K)   Use of public roads. An applicant owner, or operator proposing to use
any county, municipality, township or village roads for the purpose of
transporting BESS, substation parts and/or equipment for construction,
operation or maintenance of the BESS or substation/supporting facilities shall:
      (1)   In its special use permit application, identify all such public
roads intended for use, including a site layout plan, showing the applicable
BESS sites, public road network used, access road entrances, underground
collection system and power transformer sites;
      (2)   Identify all public agencies involved;
      (3)   Enter into a road use agreement with each of the affected
jurisdictions and relevant government agencies prior to the receipt of a
building permit;
      (4)   Obtain applicable weight and size permits from relevant government
agencies prior to construction and/or maintenance activities;
      (5)   To the extent an applicant, owner or operator must obtain a weight
or size permit from the local agency of jurisdiction, the legal agreement
shall:
         (a)   Provide a pre-construction and/or pre-maintenance baseline
survey to determine existing road conditions and right-of-way conditions, and
assess for potential future damage;
         (b)   Identify necessary heavy and oversized equipment and materials
over roads that may in certain cases be in excess of the design limits of the
roads;
         (c)   Widen, modify and/or improve roads, including culverts, bridges,
road shoulders and other elated fixtures, to permit such equipment and
materials to pass;
         (d)   Outline exact routes intended for construction and/or
maintenance use;
         (e)   Detail maintenance responsibility and method of reimbursement if
it is deemed the responsibility of a local governmental entity;
         (f)   Meet the expectations of the local governmental entity when road
reconstruction is involved;
         (g)   Easement on private property will be the sole responsibility of
the applicant, owner or operator;
         (h)   Outline of time schedule, including any and all provisions
during seasonal road postings;
         (i)   Outline any and all permits required for entrance off the public
roads;
         (j)   Provide financial assurance in the form of a sufficient cash
escrow to be held by the County Treasurer’s office for the purpose of repairing
any damage to public roads caused by constructing, operating or maintaining the
BESS, including its equipment. This estimate will be determined by a licensed
Illinois professional engineer chosen by the county and paid for by the
applicant, owner or operator;
         (k)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, provide the county’s
Code Office with a signed copy of any agreements pertaining to the use of
public roads; and
         (l)   Identify any special issues that may affect the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (L)   Utility lines and electrical circuitry. All on-site utility lines
shall be placed underground to the extent feasible and as permited by the
serving utility, with the exception of the main service connection at the
utility company right-of-way and any new interconnection equipment, including
without limitation any poles, with new easements and right-of-way.
   (M)   Compliance.
      (1)   BESS must comply with site assessment that is intended to protect
agricultural soils.
      (2)   The BESS developer(s) shall be required to initiate a natural
resource review consultation with the IDNR (Illinois Department of Natural
Resources) through the Department’s online, Ecological Compliance Assessment
Tool (EcoCAT) Program. Areas reviewed through this process will be reviewed for
endangered species and wetlands. The cost of the EcoCAT consultation will be
borne by the developer(s).
      (3)   BESS are subject to the state storm water management regulations,
erosion and sediment control provisions if adopted, and NPDES permit
requirements.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.38 OPERATION.
   (A)   Operating permit. An operating permit shall be obtained from the
county prior to start of the commercial operation of any BESS.
   (B)   Ownership changes. If the owner or operator of a BESS changes, a new
operating permit fee shall be paid to the county for the county’s evaluation of
the change in ownership. The successor owner or operator must assume, in
writing, all obligations of the original BESS special use permit (including
conditions), building permit, operating permit, site plan approval, road use
agreements, decommissioning agreements and any other agreements entered into
with the county. The successor owner or operator of the BESS shall notify the
county’s Code Administrator, in writing, of the ownership or operator change,
and written proof that it has assumed all obligations required by this chapter,
within 30 days of the ownership or operator change. The BESS operating permit
and all other permits/approvals for the BESS shall be void if the new owner or
operator fails to fulfill these requirements. Reinstatement of a void special
use permit, building permit or operating permit shall be subject to the same
review and approval processes for new applications under this chapter.
   (C)   Maintenance/annual report. 
      (1)   The owner or operator of any BESS must submit, on an annual basis
on or before February 1 of each calendar year following its commercial
operation date, a report to the County Code Administrator containing the
following information:
         (a)   A general description of any physical repairs, replacements or
modifications to the BESS and/or its infrastructure;
         (b)   Complaints pertaining to setbacks, noise, appearance, safety,
lighting and use of any public roads received by the owner or operator
concerning the BESS, and the resolution of these complaints;
         (c)   Calls for emergency services;
         (d)   Status of liability insurance; and
         (e)   A general summary of service calls to the BESS facility.
      (2)   In addition to the annual report, the owner or operator of any BESS
must also furnish such report upon direct request by the county.
      (3)   Failure to provide the annual report or report directly requested
by the county (within 30 days) shall be considered a material violation of this
chapter, subject to the remedies provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Coordination with emergency management agencies.
      (1)   The applicant, owner or operator shall submit to any local
emergency management agency, or County ESDA Director a copy of the site plan.
In addition to the site plan, a plan pertaining to the planning, response,
recovery and mitigation of any natural or manmade hazard that may affect the
BESS development must be negotiated.
      (2)   The owner or operator shall cooperate with the local fire
department/adjacent fire departments/districts/EMA to a develop an emergency
response plan. In addition, at no cost to the local fire departments, the owner
or operator shall provide to the local fire department/adjacent fire
departments/districts/EMA, any and all specialized and necessary rescue or
retrieval equipment occasioned by the use of the particular BESS being used at
the project (i.e., fire retardant, tanks, respirators, and the like)
      (3)   As part of its special use permit application, the applicant must
submit an emergency management plan.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter shall alleviate the need to comply with all
other applicable fire laws and regulations.
   (E)   Materials handling, storage and disposal.
      (1)   All solid and liquid wastes related to the construction, operation
and maintenance of the BESS shall be removed from the site promptly and
disposed of in accordance with all federal, state and local laws.
      (2)   A list of all hazardous solids and/or liquids that may be used on
site shall be provided to the local fire departments and adjacent fire
departments/districts/EMA, and the County Code Administrator. All hazardous
materials, both liquid and solid, related to the construction, operation and
maintenance of the BESS shall be handled, stored, transported and disposed of
in accordance with all applicable laws.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.39 LIABILITY INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The owner or operator of the BESS shall maintain a current general
liability policy covering bodily injury and property damage, with limits of at
least $10,000,000 per occurrence and $40,000,000 in the aggregate, with an
annual certificate of insurance being provided to the County Code
Administrator, with the county being added as an additional insured, with the
designation of primary and non-contributory.
   (B)   The applicant shall promptly increase the liability insurance if the
amount is increased in this chapter and the applicant is notified, in writing,
of same be the county. The applicant shall provide evidence of the increased
insurance to the County Code Administrator.
   (C)   Insurance coverage shall be maintained without interruption from the
date of permitting through the lifetime of the BESS project. Certificates of
insurance acceptable to the county and in compliance with this chapter shall be
filed with the county prior to the commencement of any work on the BESS, and
thereafter upon renewal or replacement of each required policy of insurance.
These certificates and the insurance policies required under this chapter shall
contain a provision that coverages afforded under the policies shall not be
cancelled or allowed to expire until at least 60 days written notice has been
given to the county.
   (D)   The applicant shall also, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
indemnify and hold the county, its employees, board members and agents,
harmless for any action due to or arising out of the construction, maintenance,
decommissioning, deconstruction and/or operation of the BESS, including the
payment of any attorney’s fees and costs arising out of any action due to the
construction, maintenance, decommissioning and/or operation of the BESS.
   (E)   The applicant, owner and/or operator of the BESS shall defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the county and its officers, appointed and elected
officials, employees, attorneys, engineers and agents (collectively and
individually, the “indemnified parties”) from and against any and all claims,
demands, losses, suits, causes of action, damages, injuries, costs, expenses
and liabilities whatsoever, including attorney’s fees relating to or arising
out of the issuance of the special use permit, other permits, or the
construction, operation, maintenance and removal of the BESS and affiliated
equipment, including, without limitation, liability for property damage or
personal injury (including death or illness), whether the liability is premised
on contract or on tort (including without limitation strict liability or
negligence), or any acts or omissions of the applicant, owner or operator under
this chapter or the special use permit/other permits, except to the extent any
such claims, demands, losses, suits, causes of action, damages, injuries,
costs, expenses and liabilities arise from the negligence or intentional acts
of the indemnified parties. This general indemnification shall not be construed
as limiting or qualifying the county’s other indemnification rights available
under the law.
   (F)   After the effective date of this chapter, no proposed BESS, as defined
in this chapter and within the county’s jurisdiction, shall proceed with
construction until it has been submitted to and approved by the County Board
and/or its authorized agent in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.40 DECOMMISSIONING.
   Decommissioning will apply to all BESS projects and their equipment/
components. Prior to receiving special use permit approval, the applicant and/
or owner/operator must enter into and agree upon a decommissioning plan and a
decommissioning agreement with the county that ensures the BESS project will be
properly decommissioned upon the end of the project life or facility
abandonment.
   (A)   Decommissioning plan. 
      (1)   The application for a special use application shall be subject to a
proposed decommissioning plan that includes the following:
         (a)   The anticipated life expectancy of the BESS project;
         (b)   The funding method(s) for the decommissioning and restoration of
the project site to its original, natural condition prior to the BESS
development;
         (c)   The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration;
         (d)   Disposal of all solid and hazardous waste in accordance with
local, state and federal waste disposal regulations;
         (e)   The manner in which the site will be restored, including a
description of how any changes to the surrounding areas and other systems
adjacent to the BESS, such as, but not limited to , structural elements,
building penetrations, means of egress, and required fire detection suppression
systems, will be protected during decommissioning, and confirmed as being
acceptable after the system is removed; and
         (f)   A listing of any contingencies for removing an intact
operational energy storage system from service, and for removing an energy
storage system from service that has been damaged by a fire or other event.
      (2)   If the site is damaged or nonfunctioning for any reason, the BESS
project operator shall notify the County Code Administrator within 24 hours,
and shall then have six months to bring the project back to its operatonal
capacity. If for any reason the BESS is not operatonal or able to store or
manage electricity after six months, the operator/owner shall have six months
to complete decommissioning of the BESS and its equipment.
      (3)   In an event of abandonment of the project or its equipment/
components, the project site property owner/leaseholder shall bear ownership of
the BESS and all of its equipment/components located on the property. The
property owner of the project site shall bear the decommissioning costs in
excess of any funds the county is able to access to ensure proper
decommissioning of the project.
      (4)   In the event of bankruptcy or similar financial default of the BESS
project, the county shall use the decommissioning funds to the greatest extent
possible. There may remain unresolved site issues beyond the scope of the
county’s ability to fund the decommissioning of the BESS. To the extent the
financial assurance provided to the county is insufficient to fund the complete
decommissioning of the BESS, the property owner, the BESS owner, and the parent
entity of the BESS owner, any person or entity holding a greater than 20%
interest in the BESS or its parent entity, any financial creditor or any other
person/entity holding an equity interest in the BESS shall be responsible for
the decommissioning costs of the BESS. Prior to receipt of a building permit,
the above responsible entites shall execute an agreement with the county
agreeing to fund the decommissioning of the BESS, should the decommissioning
financial assurance provided to the county be insufficient to fund the complete
decommissioning of the BESS.
      (5)   The decommissioning agreement shall include a provision that its
terms are binding upon the applicant and any of their successors, assigns or
heirs.
      (6)   The county may sell any salvage material to reduce its expenses
related to decommissioning of any project site, and shall be granted access to
each site to affect or complete decommissioning. The county may, but is not
required to, allow a reducton of the decommissioning financial assurance in an
amount equal to the salvage value of the BESS.
      (7)   The plan shall include provisions for removal of all structures,
BESS, transmission equipment, buildings, fences, cabling, debris, foundatons
and physical material pertaining to the project, including the cost for
disposal of all materials associated with the BESS. The plan shall also include
provisions for restoraton of soil and vegetaton and a plan ensuring financial
resources will be available to fully decommission the site.
      (8)   All solid and liquid wastes shall be disposed of in accordance with
all local, state and federal laws.
      (9)   All hazardous materials shall be handled, stored, transported and
disposed of in accordance with all applicable local, state and federal laws.
EMA and HAZMAT officials shall be notified of the handling, storage,
transportation and disposal of any and all hazardous materials.
   (B)   Decommissioning fund.
      (1)   The cost estimate of decommissioning will be completed by a
licensed Illinois professional engineer chosen by the county at the applicant’s
expense. Payment for the engineer’s fee and any other third-party costs to
prepare decommissioning cost estimates or negotiate decommissioning agreement
(s) is not included in the initial application fee.
      (2)   The plan shall ensure financial resources equal to 125% of the
entire cost of decommission, and approved by the Code Official and the State’s
Attorney, in a surety performance bond that is readily convertible into cash at
face value, naming the county and its officials as the insured. This surety
shall be retained by the county to cover the cost of the decommissioning
requirements herein.
      (3)   The decommissioning cost estimate will be reviewed a minimum every
three years, by the county’s chosen Illinois licensed professional engineer,
and revised, if necessary, at the owner/operator’s expense. The review and
revised agreement are subject to the approval of the County Board.
      (4)   The county reserves the right to require more frequent
decommissioning estimates and cash escrow requirements, based on changing
economic conditions.
      (5)   At the conclusion of the project lifespan, or when the project has
failed to be commercially operable for the greater than six months, the BESS
project’s owner/operator shall notify the County Code Administrator, and shall
then have 12 months from the date of notification to decommission the site(s).
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.41 HEARING FACILITATOR.
   (A)   The county may engage the services of a hearing facilitator. The
hearing facilitator shall be an independent contractor who shall conduct a
hearing in accordance with all applicable rules of the ABA and the county, but
has no adjudicatory responsibility other than ruling on requests for
continuances, procedural matters, the admissibility of evidence and the
propriety of any arguments.
   (B)   The hearing facilitator shall be an attorney, licensed to practice in
the State of Illinois. The applicant shall reimburse the county for fees and
costs charged by the hearing facilitator.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.42 HEARING FACTORS.
   (A)   The County Board may approve a BESS special use permit application if
it finds the evidence complies with federal and state law and regulations, and
with the standards of the county’s code and this chapter, including the factors
listed below. The following factors are applied as a balancing test, not as
individual requirements to be met:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the BESS will not be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare;
      (2)   The BESS will not be injurious to the uses and enjoyment of other
property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permited, nor
substantially diminish and impair property values of surrounding properties;
      (3)   The establishment of the BESS will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding properties;
      (4)   Adequate public utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or will be provided;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets and;
      (6)   The BESS shall, in all other respects, conform to the applicable
regulations of this chapter and, in each instance, shall be modified pursuant
to the recommendations and approval of the County Board.
   (B)   The County Board may also stipulate conditions, guarantees and
restrictions, upon the establishment, location, construction, maintenance,
operation and other aspects of the BESS as are deemed necessary for the
protection of the public interest, and to secure compliance with the standards
and requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.43 FEE SCHEDULE AND PERMITTIGN PROCESSES.
   (A)   Applicable fees and special use application.
      (1)   Upon submittal for a special use permit application for a BESS, the
applicant shall submit a non-refundable filing fee as listed in the County Fee
Schedule that will be utilized to review and assess the application.
      (2)   Should the actual costs to the county exceed the current fee, the
applicant shall be responsible for those additional costs, including, but not
limited to, the costs of outside attorneys, a hearing officer, and consultants
(e.g., noise engineers, traffic engineers, and environmental consultants), and
shall remit additional funds to the county within 15 days of receipt of request
from the county.
   (B)   County Code Administrator responsibilities.
      (1)   Accept and date stamp the application was filed. The date stamp
should be considered the official filing date for all time purposes. Receipt
and acceptance of an application by the Code Official is pro forma, and does
not constitute an acknowledgment that the applicant has complied with this
chapter.
      (2)   The County Code Administrator shall forward the application to the
County Engineer for a determination of completeness.
      (3)   County Code Administrator shall make available a copy of the
application and public record concerning the application for public inspection
during the normal business hours of the county offices. Additionally, the
County Code Administrator shall provide to any person so requesting, copies of
the application or the public record, upon payment by such persons for the
actual cost of reproduction.
   (C)   Building permit fees. Building permit fees shall payable by check to
“Jersey County” (refer to the County Fee Schedule).
   (D)   Operating permit fees. The applicant shall pay to the County Code
Administrator an operating permit fee of $2,500 per megawat (MW). If the total
nameplate capacity is below 1 MW, the operating permit fee shall be reduced pro
rata based on kilowat (kW) capacity. Applicant or owner/operator shall not
begin commercial operation until such time as the operating permit fee has been
paid. If the owner/operator of the BESS changes, a new operating permit fee
shall be paid to the county for the county’s evaluation of the owner or
operator.
   (E)   All costs paid by applicant/owner. In addition to all fees noted
above, the applicant or owner shall pay all costs incurred by the county,
including, but not limited to, those costs associated with all offices, boards
and commissions of the county, and third-party costs incurred by the county.
This includes, but is not limited to, the direct or indirect costs associated
with the hearing, permitting, operations, inspections, decommissioning,
litigation, disputes and/or negotiations.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.44 DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any BESS declared to be unsafe by the county by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, damage or abandonment is
hereby declared a public safety issue and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Failure by the applicant, owner or operator to comply with any
provisions of this chapter, the special use permit, other permits, any
conditions imposed on the project, and/or failure to comply with any law or
regulation shall constitute a default under this chapter, and shall be grounds
for revocation of any special use permit or other permits granted by the County
Board or the county.
   (C)   Prior to implementation of the existing county procedures for the
resolution of such default(s), the appropriate county body shall first provide
written notice to the owner and operator, setting forth the alleged default(s).
The written notice shall provide the owner and operator a reasonable time
period, not to exceed 30 days, for good faith negotiations to resolve the
alleged default(s).
   (D)   If it determines that the parties cannot resolve the alleged defaults
within the good faith negotiation period, the county shall make application to
the Circuit Court for an injunction requiring conformance with this chapter, or
make such other order as the Court deems necessary to secure compliance with
the chapter.
   (E)   Any violation of this chapter shall be an offense punishable by a fine
of $750. Each violation shall be a separate offence. Each day a violation
occurs or continues shall be a separate offense, subject to a $750 fine for
each additional day the violation is not corrected. A court may set any
additional and appropriate per-day fine for each day the infraction exists or
until the infraction is remedied. It is the goal of this chapter to promote
structural safety to protect the public. The court has the authority to set any
additional appropriate fines and will consider the nature of the offense, the
degree of public safety involved, and the efforts of the county and responsible
owner or applicant to resolve quickly and safely any and all infractions. It is
the intent that any dispute between the parties be resolved promptly and, where
possible, by informal discussions as outlined elsewhere in this chapter.
   (F)   After the effective date of this chapter, any persons who, being the
owner or agent of the owner of any land, or project developer, located within
the territorial jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter, proceeds with
development of a BESS prior to being approved under the terms of this chapter
shall be fined as stated herein.
   (G)   The county reserves the right to hire outside counsel to enforce this
chapter or to determine compliance with this chapter. The owner/operator is
liable for payment of reasonable attorney’s fees in this regard.
   (H)   Nothing shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful action
to prevent or remedy violations. All cost connected therewith shall accrue to
the applicant, owner or operator responsible for the project.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
§ 151.45 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to the minimum requirements
adopted for the promotion and preservations of public health, safety and
general welfare of the county. These regulation are not intended to repeal,
abrogate, annul or in any manner interfere with existing regulations or laws of
the county or conflict with the laws of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. BESS-25, passed 3-11-2025)
CHAPTER 152: DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Base flood elevation
   
152.04   Duties of the Floodplain Manager
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.07   Protecting buildings
   
152.08   Subdivision requirements
   
152.09   Public health and other standards
   
152.10   Variances
   
152.11   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.13   Carrying capacity and notification
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the
county by state statutory authority in 615 ILCS 15/, 55 ILCS 5/5-1041 and 5/5-
1063, as amended. The purpose of this article is to maintain the county’s
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program; to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface
waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted in order to accomplish the following specified
purposes:
      (1)   To meet the requirements of 615 ILCS 5/5, an Act in relation to the
regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of the state, approved June 10,
1911, as amended;
      (2)   To ensure that new development does not increase the flood or
drainage hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to
erosion;
      (3)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
      (4)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
      (5)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities, utilities flood rescue and relief operations;
      (6)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
      (7)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available;
      (8)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 C.F.R. 59-79, as amended;
      (9)   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land
and water resources; and
      (10)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of
watercourses and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts,
improve water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian
habitat, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and
enhance community and economic development.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. An act in relation to the regulations of the rivers, lakes and streams
of the state.
(615 ILCS 5/5 et seq.)
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A non-inhabitable building, used only for parking of
vehicles or storage, that is on the same property as the principal building and
which is incidental to the use of the principal building.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm, corporation, agency, non-profit or governmental
body not exempted by law.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.
      (1)   A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings, and gas
or liquid storage tanks.
      (2)   The term also includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers
installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CHANNEL. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash
or natural or humanmade drainage way which has a definite bed and banks or
shoreline in or into which surface or ground water flows, either perennially or
intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or material of its bed or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, rip-rapping or other armoring, widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody vegetation.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION does not include the clearing of dead or dying vegetation,
debris or trash from the channel. CHANNELIZATION is a severe form of channel
modification involving a typical relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening and the like).
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of the natural floodplain storage can
increase off-site flood water elevations and flows.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A REGULATORY FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE. Preconstruction
approval by IDNR-OWR and the Federal Emergency Management Agency of a proposed
change to the floodway map. This preconstruction approval, pursuant to this
part, gives assurances to the property owner that once an appropriate use is
constructed according to permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as
previously agreed, upon review and acceptance of as-built plans.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A letter which indicates that
the Federal Emergency Management Agency will revise base flood elevations,
flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or floodways, as shown on an
effective flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map once the as-
built plans are submitted and approved.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers, health care facilities and nursing homes, schools and
toxic waste treatment, handling or storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, driving of piles, land clearing or other alterations of the ground
surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   DWR. Division of Water Resources.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE (EC). A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify the elevation to which a building has
been elevated.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry and low elevation areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters, or from the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source. FLOOD also includes the collapse or subsidence of land along
the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of erosion or
undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical
levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of
water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature,
such as flash FLOOD or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual
and unforeseeable event which results in a general and temporary condition of
partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
inland or tidal waters.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area
(SFHA) within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or
may not depict floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN. Synonymous with SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands
within the jurisdiction of the county that is subject to inundation by the base
flood. The floodplains of the Macoupin Creek, Mill Creek, Phils Creek, Piasa
Creek, Otter Creek, Illinois and Mississippi Rivers are generally identified as
such on the flood insurance rate map of Jersey County prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency and dated April 2, 2009. FLOODPLAIN also includes
those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood plus
three feet of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and conveys the
base flood. The FLOODWAYS for each of the floodplains of the county shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the State Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places by the
State Historic Preservation Agency.
   HYDROLOGIC and HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS. Engineering analyses which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM. The Division regulates construction projects
that may impact the flood carrying capacity of rivers, lakes and streams. These
rules affect all streams and lakes except those in northeastern part of the
state regulated under Part 3708.
      (1)   All construction activities in the floodways of streams (the
channel and the adjacent portion of the floodplain that is needed to safely
convey and store flood waters) in urban areas where the stream drainage area is
one square mile or more or in rural areas where the stream drainage area is ten
square miles or more must be permitted by the Division prior to construction.
      (2)   Floodways have been delineated for many of these streams and appear
on the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s flood insurance rate maps. Those
maps are available for viewing at the local building and/or zoning offices.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). Official determination by FEMA that a
specific building, defined area of land or a parcel of land where there has not
been any alteration of the topography since the date of the first NFIP map
showing the property within the floodplain was inadvertently included within
the floodplain and that the building, defined area of land or a parcel of land
is removed from the floodplain.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). Letter that revises the base flood or the
100-year flood frequency elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood
boundaries or floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §
152.07.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community. The term NEW MANUFACTURED HOME also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and any other similar vehicles placed
on site for more than 180 consecutive days.
   MITIGATION. Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative
effects which floodplain development activities might have on public health,
safety and welfare. Examples of MITIGATION include compensatory storage, soil
erosion, sedimentation control and channel restoration.
   NGVD 88. National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1988. NAVD supersedes the
National Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD).
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Is equal to or less than 400 feet in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered in the State of
Illinois.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An engineer registered in the State of
Illinois.
   REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE. Development activities which do not
result in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes
to the dimensions of a structure.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement, was within 180 days of the permit date.
      (1)   The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
      (2)   For a substantial improvement, ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means
the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a
building whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
   STRUCTURE. The results of a humanmade change to the land constructed on or
below the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home; or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than 180 days. (See the definition of BUILDING above);
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage during a ten-year period equals or exceeds
50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred regardless
of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must be included
in this determination. Damage of less then 50% of the fair market value will be
applied to the repetitive loss calculations.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure, taking place during a ten-year period in which the cumulative
percentage of improvement or repair equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started. SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. Because a VARIANCE can create an increased risk to life
and property, VARIANCES from flood elevation or other requirements in this
chapter should be rare.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is based on the flood insurance
study of the county.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the
party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace the
existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior any development of the site.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Macoupin Creek,
Mill Creek, Phils Creek, Piasa Creek, Otter Creek, Illinois and Mississippi
Rivers shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood
insurance study of Jersey County prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency on April 2, 2009. The base flood elevation for each floodplain
delineated as an “AH Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the flood insurance rate map of Jersey County. The base flood
elevation for each of the remaining floodplains delineated as an “A Zone” on
the flood insurance rate map of Jersey County shall be according to the best
data available from federal, state or other sources. Should no other data
exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine base flood
elevations.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.04 DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Floodplain Manager shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the county meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Floodplain Manager shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.05 and ensure all development activities happen in a timely manner;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06;
      (3)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (4)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (5)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.08 and notify FEMA, in writing, whenever the corporate boundaries have been
modified by annexation;
      (6)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
152.09;
      (7)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.10 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (8)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
152.12 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (9)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits, including permits pertaining to
IDNR/OWR floodway and dam safety rules, the Clean Water Act, public water
supply, Endangered Species Act and State Endangered and Species Protection Act;
      (10)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (11)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (12)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (13)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps
and copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (14)   Perform site inspections and make substantial damage
determinations for structures within the floodplain;
      (15)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map;
      (16)   Review elevation certificates for accuracy and require incomplete
or deficient certificates to be corrected;
      (17)   Notify FEMA and IDNR/OWR of any proposed amendments to this
chapter;
      (18)   Schedule an annual inspection of the floodplain and document the
results of the inspection; and
      (19)   Establish procedures for administering and documenting
determinations, as outlined below, of substantial improvement and substantial
damage:
         (a)   Determine the market value or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified, independent appraiser of
the building before the start of construction of the proposed work. In the case
of repair, the market value of the building shall be the market value before
the damage occurred and before any repairs are made;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair
a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the property owner of all determinations and
responsibilities for permitting and mitigation.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Floodplain Manager.
   (B)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body shall commence any
development of a critical facility on land below the 0.2% annual chance food
elevation without first obtaining a development permit from the Floodplain
Manager. The Floodplain Manager shall not issue a development permit if the
proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   For development in flood fringes, regulatory floodplains, and SFHA or
floodplains where no floodways have been identified (zones A, AO, AH, AE, A1
through A30, A99, AR, VO, V1 through V30, VE, V, M or E), the following
requirements shall be met. The application for development permit shall be made
on a form provided by the county.
      (1)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions and legal description for the property and sealed by a licenced
engineer, architect or land surveyor;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations using NAVD 88 and all changes in grade
resulting from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
         (d)   Enclosures below the base flood elevation and accessory
buildings will require a non- conversion agreement
         (e)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.07; and
         (f)   Itemized cost of project or improvements as estimated by a
licensed engineer or architect.
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the
Floodplain Manager or the County Engineer shall compare the elevation of the
site to the base flood elevation (BFE). Any development located on land that
can be shown by survey data to be below the current BFE is subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any development located on land shown to be below the BFE and
hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not identified as floodplain on
the current FIRM, is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation (BFE) and which has not been
filed after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in the
mapped floodway, or located in Zone A, is not in the floodplain and therefore
not subject to the requirements of this chapter. A LOMA-floodway is required
before developing land inadvertently included in the mapped floodway. Unless a
LOMA is obtained, all provisions of this chapter apply if the land is located
in a Zone A.
      (5)   Any development located on land that is above the current BFE, but
will be graded to an elevation below the BFE, is subject to the provisions of
this chapter.
      (6)   The Floodplain Manager shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that the ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site’s first FIRM identification.
      (7)   A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed areas
greater than 10,000 square feet shall be submitted. This plan shall include a
description of the sequence of grading activities and the temporary sediment
and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate the effects. This
plan shall also include a description of final stabilization and revegetation
measures, and the identification of a responsible party to ensure post-
construction maintenance.
      (8)   The Floodplain Manager shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other local, state and federal permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity
listed in §
152.06. The Floodplain Manager shall not issue a permit unless all other local,
state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for a critical facility, the Floodplain
Manager shall compare the elevation of the site to the 0.2% annual chance flood
elevation, if available. Refer to §
152.09 for critical facility site requirements.
   (E)   A development permit or approval shall become invalid unless the
actual start of construction, as defined, for work authorized by such permit is
commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or if the work authorized is
suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days after the work commences.
   (F)   All permitted work shall be completed within 12 months after the date
of issuance of the permit or the permit shall expire. Time extensions of not
more than 90 days each may be granted, in writing, by the Floodplain Manager.
Time extensions shall be granted only if the original permit is compliant with
this chapter and the FIRM and FIS in effect at the time the extension is
granted.
   (G)   The applicant is required to submit certification by a registered,
licensed professional engineer or registered land surveyor that the finished
fill and building elevations were accomplished in compliance with §
152.07. Floodproofing measures must be certified by a registered professional
engineer or registered architect as being compliant with applicable
floodproofing standards.
   (H)   Accessory structures designed in accordance with §
152.07 are exempt from certification, provided sufficient compliance with the
development permit are documented. FEMA elevation certificate and floodproofing
certificate forms may be required as documentation of compliance.
   (I)   An as-built grading plan prepared by a registered professional
engineer is required to certify that any development in floodplain, such as
grading or the construction of bridges or culverts, are in substantial
conformance with the development permit.
   (J)   No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in any manner
until a letter or certificate has been issued by the Floodplain Manager stating
that the use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (K)   The Floodplain Manager must maintain records in perpetuity documenting
compliance with
this chapter including the elevation to which structures and alterations to
structures are constructed or floodproofed.
   (L)   Refer to §
36.098 in the county fee schedule of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within all floodplains where a floodway has not been identified on the
countywide flood insurance rate map, and within all other floodplains where a
floodway has not been delineated, the following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   No fill shall be allowed in a floodway;
      (2)   Projects involving grading, large excavations, channel improvements
or bridge and culvert replacements will require a no-rise certificate completed
by an licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
      (3)   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 2;
      (4)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
      (5)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
      (6)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
      (7)   Minor, non-obstructive activities, such as underground utility
lines, light poles, sign posts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding 70 square feet and raising
buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any other
activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
      (8)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (9)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (10)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (11)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 11;
      (12)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12;
      (13)   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 13; and
      (14)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   Fill is being used in the flood fringe to elevate the site above
the base flood elevation, the applicant shall submit sufficient data and obtain
a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the purpose of removing the site
from the floodplain;
      (2)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a
hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from below the base flood
elevation;
      (3)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to one and one-half
times the volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In the case of
streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to
the areas so filled or occupied;
      (4)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed ten-year flood elevation. All such excavations
shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse;
      (5)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); and
      (6)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
   (C)   In-ground swimming pools located within the floodplain shall be
designed as follows:
      (1)   Anchored to prevent floatation, collapse or lateral movement and
ground level;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage and constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage per the ASCE 24 Flood Resistant Design and Construction;
      (3)   Installation of pressure relief valves in the pool floor and all
mechanical equipment is to be elevated above the BFE;
      (4)   Pools shall not be enclosed by walls, roofs or solid fencing;
      (5)   A plan view of the project and engineering study each showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level using NAVD 88, adjacent
property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements, proposed
activity and navigation channel (when the proposed construction is near a
commercially navigable body of water), designated floodway limit, floodplain
limit, location and orientation of cross-sections, north arrow and a graphic or
numerical scale;
      (6)   Cross-section views of the project and engineering study each
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in a plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, ten-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
      (7)   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location;
      (8)   Any and all other federal, state and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development;
      (9)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of division (B)
above; and
      (10)   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA;
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation.
      (2)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at low
replacement value;
         (b)   Value of improvements equals or exceeds the market value by 50%
during a ten-year period. If substantially improved, the existing structure and
the addition must meet the flood protection standards of this section;
         (c)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during a ten-year period. If substantially
damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section within 24 months of the date the damage occurred;
         (d)   Structures that are determined to be 50% and over are considered
substantially damaged in the floodplain. The owner(s) shall have the right to
appeal. An Appeals Board fee of $200 shall be paid by the appellant. Members of
the Appeals Board shall be compensated as determined by the County Board. Refer
to the county fee schedule in Chapter 36 of this code of ordinances. A written
application for appeal must be received within 20 days after the notice of
determination letter is received accompanied with the following documentation:
            1.   A contractor’s estimate to be completed by a licensed
contractor listing all materials and cost of same to be replaced or added;
            2.   Hourly labor listed for each job using the county’s adopted
wage scale; and
            3.   Inspection reports from a mechanical contractor and
electrician certifying the electrical, HVAC, hot water heater or other
mechanical equipment is working in a safe and efficient manner.
         (e)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site;
         (f)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site
for more than 180 days per year; and
         (g)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
152.02.
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in flood
fringe areas in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least 20 feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measures;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and, when necessary, storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect and by having a minimum of one permanent
opening on each wall no more than one foot above grade. The openings shall
provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for every one square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation. Refer
to FEMA TV 1, Openings in Foundation Walla and WALLS of Enclosures, for
additional guidance;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris;
         (e)   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished
exterior grade;
         (f)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (g)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (h)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
      (3) Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this section.
   (C)   Manufactured homes to be permanently installed on-site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Admin. Code 870 et seq.;
      (3)   Porches or decks shall not be permanently attached;
      (4)   Electrical and mechanical elements shall be elevated above the BFE;
      (5)   All enclosures below the flood protection elevation shall address
hydrostatic pressures by allowing automatic entry and exit of floodwaters, and
shall be used for storage, parking or building access. Refer to FEMA TB 1,
Openings in Foundation Walls and Walls of Enclosures, for additional guidance;
and
      (6)   The vehicle must meet public health standards shall be met as
referenced in §
152.09.
   (D)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on a site for more than 180
days shall meet the elevation requirements of division (C) above unless the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck. The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (2)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (3)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (4)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (5)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (6)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain;
      (7)   Propane tanks, electrical and sewage connections must be quick-
disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      (8)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (9)   The vehicle must be either:
         (a)   Entirely supported by jacks rather than blocks; or
         (b)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground, and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks
to be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
      (10)   The vehicle must be registered and permitted by the Floodplain
Manager prior to being placed on site (includes RVs being returned to original
site); and
      (11)   The vehicle must meet all of the requirements of §
152.09.
   (E)   (1)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
         (a)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
         (b)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and
the impact from debris and ice; and
         (c)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (2)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (E).
   (F)   Minor accessory or shed structures constructed ancillary to a
residential use may be permitted provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The structure or shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The structure or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The structure or shed must be located outside of the floodway;
      (4)   The structure or shed must be on a single-family lot and be
accessory to an existing principal structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the structure or shed must be built
of materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The structure must have at least one permanent opening on each wall
no more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for every
square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The structure must be no more than one story in height and no more
than 500 square feet in size;
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation;
and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
   (G)   A building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
      (3)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event;
      (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
      (7)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The County Board shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent
that they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   (1)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation
agreements, planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks
and subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection
standards of §§
152.06 and
152.07.
      (2)   Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
         (a)   Base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
         (b)   A signed statement by a Registered Professional Engineer that
the proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface
waters in accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2); and
         (c)   Street, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be
located and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural
streams and channels.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, the following standards apply.
   (A)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
152.07.
   (B)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric shall
be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (C)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters. Manholes or
other above-ground openings located below the flood protection elevation shall
be watertight.
   (D)   (1)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste
disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them
or contamination from them during flooding.
      (2)   The system can be designed and certified by a licensed professional
engineer and must be approved by the State Department of Public Health as per
77 ILCS 905. Leach fields are not allowed in the SFHA.
   (E)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry-
floodproofed to the 0.02% annual flood frequency elevation or three feet above
the base flood elevation, whichever is greater. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of
the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   (F)   All other activities defined as development shall be, and as
development shall be designed, so as not to alter flood flows or increase
potential flood damages.
   (G)   Dams are classified as to their size and their hazard/damage potential
in the event of failure. Permits for dams may be required from IDNR/OWR.
Contact IDNR/OWR to determine if a permit is required. If a permit is required,
a permit application must be made to IDNR/OWR prior to the construction or
major modification of jurisdictional dams.
   (H)   The Floodplain Manager shall require a conditional letter of map
revision (CLOMR)/letter of map revision (LOMR) prior to the issuance of a
development permit for:
      (1)   Proposed development which will increase the BFE by more than 0.1
feet in riverine area where FEMA has provided a BFE but no floodway;
      (2)   Once a CLOMR has been issued, the development permit may be issued
for site grading and structures necessary in the area of the map change to
achieve the final LOMR. Upon completion, the applicant shall submit as-built
certifications, as required by FEMA, to achieve a final LOMR prior to the
release of final development permits. Review this section for the construction
of buildings in a floodplain issued a LOMR based on fill; and
      (3)   When construction of a building following a LOMR based on fill is
requested, the condition where a site in the floodplain is removed due to the
use of fill to elevate the site above the BFE, the applicant may not apply for
a permit from the county to construct the lowest floor of a building below the
BFE in the floodplain.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.10 VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
regulatory floodway, as defined in §
152.02. However, when a development proposal is located outside of a regulatory
floodway, and whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the county’s
Floodplain Manager for a variance. The cost of the variance shall be $2,000.
      (2)   The Floodplain Manager shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the proper committee appointed
by the County Board. The Committee shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the County Board. The County
Board may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing or repairs to stream beds and banks, roads, utilities or other public
facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP;
      (7)   The activity is not in a regulatory floodway; and
      (8)   The provisions of §§
152.06 and
152.07 are still met, all other required state and federal permits have been
obtained.
   (C)   The Floodplain Manager shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
152.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.07 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or alteration of
a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or the
State Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more permissive
than the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
   (E)   Agricultural buildings are not exempt from floodplain regulations. Any
variance granted for an agricultural structure shall be decided individually
based on a case-by-case analysis of the building’s unique circumstances.
Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as well as those criteria
and conditions set forth in this chapter. In order to minimize flood damages
during the 0.1% chance of a flood and the threat to public health and safety,
the following conditions shall be included for any variance issued for
agricultural structures that are constructed at-grade and wet-floodproofed.
      (1)   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farm houses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
      (2)   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in Zone A only as identified on the community’s flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
      (3)   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (e.g., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, and the like) below the base
flood elevation must be built with flood-resistant materials in accordance with
§
152.07.
      (4)   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with §
152.07. All of the buildings’ structural components must be capable of
resisting specific flood-related forces, including hydrostatic, buoyancy and
hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      (5)   Any mechanical, electrical or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with §
152.07.
      (6)   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls subject to the
100-year flood contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters in accordance with §
152.07.
      (7)   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of §
152.06. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures within any
designated floodway.
      (8)   Wet-floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain coordinator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the county or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully hereunder.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the
County Board to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance
program including: June 10, 2003, March 13, 2007, June 21, 2008, October 14,
2008, and amended on November 9, 2021.
   (B)   However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions.
   (C)   Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.13 CARRY CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   For all projects involving channel modification, fill or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained. In addition, the county shall notify adjacent communities, in
writing, 30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Floodplain
Manager may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter
exists. The Floodplain Manager shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   (B)   (1)   If such owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the
violation:
         (a)   The county shall make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the Court deems necessary to secure compliance with the chapter;
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense; and
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   The county shall record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   (C)   The Floodplain Manager shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (1)   The Floodplain Manager is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development. The stop-work order shall be in
writing, indicate the reason for the issuance and shall order the action, if
necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The
stop-work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      (2)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or
revoked until a hearing is held by the Board of Appeals. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for the complaint and reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
         (b)   The time and place of the hearing.
      (3)   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or
revoked.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 21-4, passed 11-9-2021)
CHAPTER 153: STORM WATER
Section
Authority and Purpose; Other Relevant Permitting; Applicability;
Exemptions; Exceptions; Separability, and Responsibility
   
153.001   Authority and purpose
   
153.002   Other relevant permitting
   
153.003   Applicability
   
153.004   Exemptions
   
153.005   Exceptions
   
153.006   Separability
   
153.007   Responsibility
   
153.008   NPDES compliance
   
153.009   Information accessibility to the public
Definitions
   
153.020   Definitions
Storm Water Drainage and Detention
   
153.035   Drainage plan submittal requirements
   
153.036   Minimization of increases in runoff volumes and rates
   
153.037   Water quality and multiple uses
   
153.038   Design criteria, standards and methods
   
153.039   Accommodating flows from upstream tributary areas
   
153.040   Early completion of detention facilities
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control
   
153.055   Findings
   
153.056   General principles
   
153.057   Erosion and sediment control plan submittal requirements
   
153.058   Design and operation standards and requirements
   
153.059   Maintenance of control measures
   
153.060   Control of construction site wastes
   
153.061   Construction site storm water pollution prevention
Long-Term Maintenance Responsibility
   
153.075   Long-term maintenance responsibility
Inspections
   
153.090   Inspections
   
153.091   Specialized precautions
   
153.092   Amendment of plans
Permitting
   
153.105   Application for development permit
   
153.106   Bond required
   
153.107   Review and approval
   
153.108   Final certification
   
153.109   Expiration of development permit
   
153.110   Appeals
Enforcement
   
153.125   Stop-work order: revocation of development permit
 
   
153.999   Penalty
AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE; OTHER RELEVANT PERMITTING; APPLICABILITY; EXEMPTIONS;
EXCEPTIONS; SEPARABILITY, AND RESPONSIBILITY
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the
county by the Illinois State Statutes.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to diminish threats to public health
and safety, protect property, prevent damage to the environment and promote
public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction,
use and maintenance of any new development or redevelopment or other activity
which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of
earth, and/or changes the storm water drainage pattern and/or storm water flows
from that which would have occurred if the land had been left in its natural
state. This storm water runoff and resulting soil erosion could result in the
inundation of damageable properties, the erosion and destabilization of
downstream channels and the pollution of valuable stream and lake resources.
This chapter regulates these activities to minimize adverse impacts. The
purpose of this chapter is also to comply with the general national pollutant
discharge elimination system (NPDES) Permit No. ILR40 regulations, the notice
of intent (NOI) submitted to the IEPA in 2003.
   (C)   This chapter is adopted to accomplish the following objectives:
      (1)   To assure that new development or redevelopment does not increase
the drainage or flood hazards, or create unstable conditions susceptible to
soil erosion;
      (2)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage due to increased storm water runoff and soil erosion;
      (3)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of increased
flooding and soil erosion on a watershed basis;
      (4)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, correction of channel
erosion problems, and flood rescue and relief operations caused by storm water
runoff and soil erosion quantities from new development or redevelopment;
      (5)   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land
and soil, water, air, animal and plant resources;
      (6)   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and floodplains and to protect water quality and aquatic habitats;
and
      (7)   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in
order to manage flood and storm water impacts, improve water and groundwater
quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, maintain
quality forest resources, provide recreation opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits and enhance community and economic development.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.002 OTHER RELEVANT PERMITTING.
   Before a development permit under this chapter becomes effective, all
required federal, state and local permits will have been officially approved.
The acquisition of these permits shall be the sole responsibility of the
applicant. These may include, but are not limited to, § 404 of the Clean Waters
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, § 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act,
being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq., § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 403, or permitting required by the State Department of Natural
Resources, Office of Water Resources in accordance with the Rivers, Lakes and
Streams Act, 615 ILCS, the Soil and Water Conservation Districts Act, 70 ILCS
and the national pollutant discharge elimination system permit (NPDES) through
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Water Pollution
Control. Compliance is also required with, but not limited to, the Development
Code of the county, including the subdivision regulations, as codified in
Chapter 156 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.003 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter applies to all new development or redevelopment in the
unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person, firm or
corporation, public or private, the state and its agencies or political
subdivisions, the United States of America, and its agencies or political
subdivisions, any agent, servant, officer or employee of any of the foregoing
which meets the following provisions or is otherwise exempted in this chapter,
shall commence any development activities without first having obtained a
development permit from the Code Administrator of the county:
      (1)   Any new development or redevelopment contains an area 10,000 or
more square feet of total impervious surface (i.e., streets, roof, patio or
parking area or any combination thereof);
      (2)   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill or any combination thereof) that affects an area of 10,000 or
more square feet, or that will exceed 100 cubic yards;
      (3)   Any land disturbing activity if the activity is within 100 feet of
a river, lake, pond, stream, sinkhole or wetland; and is done in conjunction
with divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above; and
      (4)   Any land disturbing activity on the sloping side of the slope
disturbance line and is in conjunction with divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3)
above.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.004 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A development permit shall not be required for the following:
      (1)   Any new development, redevelopment or other activity falling below
the minimum standards as set forth in §
153.003;
      (2)   The agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the Soil
and Water Conservation District, and including the construction of agricultural
structures;
      (3)   The maintenance of any existing storm water drainage/detention
component or structure or any existing soil erosion/sediment control component
or structure; including dredging, levee restoration, tree removal or other
function which maintains the original design capacities of the above; and
      (4)   The construction of, improvements to or the maintenance of any
street, road, highway or interstate highway performed by any unit of government
whose powers grant such authority.
   (B)   (1)   A development permit is required for these uses but shall not be
subject to the provisions of §§
153.035 through
153.040; and
      (2)   Any land disturbing activity that is one acre (43,560 square feet)
or less; or development of tracts of land where not more than one single-family
dwelling is being erected; or, any lots in a new subdivision of land where the
lots front and have their sole access on an existing street or roadway.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.005 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee may, in accordance with the
following procedures, authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and
regulations set forth in this chapter that:
      (1)   The land is of such shape or size or is affected by such physical
conditions or is subject to such title limitations or record, that it is
impossible for the applicant to comply with all of the requirements of this
chapter;
      (2)   The exception is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant; and
      (3)   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
welfare, environment or injurious to other property in the vicinity of the
subjects property.
   (B)   Each application for an exception shall be made to the Code
Administrator. The Administrator will review and transmit recommendations to
the Subdivision and Land Use Committee, which shall review such recommendations
prior to granting or denying the exception.
   (C)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall hold a public hearing on
each application for exception, within 30 days after receiving the application,
in the manner by ordinance. Within 30 days after public hearing, the
Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall either approve the site development
permit application with the exceptions and conditions it deems necessary or it
shall disapprove such development permit application and exception application,
or it shall take other such action as appropriate.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.006 SEPARABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed to be separable,
and the invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity
of the remainder.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.007 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The applicant shall not be relieved of responsibility for damage to persons
or properly otherwise imposed by law, and the county or its officers or agents
will not be made liable for such damage, by:
   (A)   The issuance of a development permit under this chapter;
   (B)   Compliance with the provisions of that development permit or
conditions attached to it by the Code Administrator;
   (C)   Failure of county officials to observe or recognize hazardous or
unsightly conditions;
   (D)   Failure of county officials to recommend denial or to deny a
development permit; or
   (E)   Exemptions from development permit requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.008 NPDES COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   General. New and redevelopment that is applicable to this chapter (per
§
153.003) must comply with the NPDES regulations (the General NPDES Permit No.
ILR40 and the NOI). NPDES compliance is obtained by adhering to this chapter,
ILR10 permits, the general NPDES for the county and the NOI submitted for each
individual community and all future steps taken by the individual communities
to implement the NOI.
   (B)   Public education and outreach on storm water impacts. In accordance
with the General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and
implement activities as outlined in the public education and outreach on storm
water Impacts.
   (C)   Public involvement/participation. In accordance with the General NPDES
Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and implement activities
as outlined in the public involvement/participation.
   (D)   Illicit discharge detection and elimination. In accordance with the
General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and
implement activities as outlined in the illicit discharge detection and
elimination.
   (E)   Construction site storm water runoff control. In accordance with the
General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and
implement activities as outlined in the construction site storm water runoff
control.
   (F)   Post-construction storm water management in new development and
redevelopment. In accordance with the General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the
NOI, the county will comply and implement activities as outlined in the post-
construction storm water management in new development and redevelopment.
   (G)   Pollution prevention/good housekeeping. In accordance with the General
NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the county will comply and implement
activities as outlined in the pollution prevention/good housekeeping.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.009 INFORMATION ACCESSIBILITY TO THE PUBLIC.
   Documents relating to the adherence to this chapter are available for review
by request at City Hall.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERSE IMPACTS. Any negative impact on plant, soil, air or water resources
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality and quantity.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm or governmental agency who executes the
necessary forms to produce official approval of a development or permit to
carry out construction of a new development or redevelopment from the county.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The elevation at all locations delineating the level
of flooding resulting from the 100- year frequency flood event, which has 1%
chance of occurring in any given year.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the county for the construction,
erection or alteration of a structure or building and the related ground and
surface preparation prior to and after completion of construction, erection or
alteration of a structure or building.
   BYPASS FLOWS. Storm water runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property’s drainage system but not under its control.
   CERTIFY or CERTIFICATION. Formally attesting that the specific inspections
and tests were performed, and that such inspections and tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
   CHANNEL. Any defined river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or
artificial depression, ponded area, on-stream lake or impoundment, karst area
(sinkhole), flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash or
natural or human-made drainage way, which has a definite bed and bank or
shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater flows, either perennially or
intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), filling, widening, deepening,
straightening, relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody
rooted vegetation. CHANNEL MODIFICATION does not include the human-made
clearing of debris or removal of trash.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the natural vegetative ground cover.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
food storage capacity when fill or structures are placed within the floodplain.
   CONDUIT. Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
   CUBIC YARD. A one yard by yard by one yard amount of material in excavation
and or fill.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of storm water runoff and the controlled release by gravity
of this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
   DETENTION TIME. The amount of time storm water is held within a detention
basin.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to real estate property, including:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of any duly recorded parcel of
property;
      (2)   Construction of roads, bridges or similar projects;
      (3)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days per year;
      (4)   Construction of roads, bridges or similar projects;
      (5)   Redevelopment of a site;
      (6)   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving or other
non-agricultural alterations of a ground surface;
      (7)   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste; and
      (8)   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
direction or velocity of storm water flows from a property.
   DRAINAGE PLAN. A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing storm water drainage system and
environmental features, including grading, as well as proposed alterations or
changes to the drainage system and environment of a property.
   DRY BASIN. A detention basin designed to drain after temporary storage of
storm water flows and to normally be dry over much of its bottom area.
   EROSION. The general process whereby soil or earth is moved by rainfall,
flowing water, wind or wave action.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or
any other similar material, is cut into, dug quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
from such actions.
   EXCESS STORM WATER RUNOFF. The volume and rate of flow of storm water
discharged from a new development or redevelopment which is or will be in
excess of that volume and rate which existed before development or
redevelopment.
   EXISTING GRADE. The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior
to excavation or filling.
   FILL. Any cut which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material, is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
humans to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting there from.
   FINAL GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface after grading work
is completed in accordance with the engineering plans.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The area as designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) on either side of the floodway. This area is subject to
inundation from the base flood but conveys little or no flow.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). A much generalized map prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) which shows only where floodplains
are located based on very basic data. FHBMs do not include base flood
elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) that depicts the special flood hazard area (SFHA)
within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones and regulatory
floodplains and may or may not depict regulatory floodways.
   FLOODPLAIN. The land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood elevation
which is subject to inundation. The FLOODPLAIN as designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). These areas can be found on the FIRM, flood boundary and floodway
map or the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) of the community. This area is the
collective combination of the regulatory floodway and the flood fringe.
   FLOODWAY. The channel and that portion of the floodplain, including on-
stream lakes, adjacent to a stream or watercourse which is needed to store and
convey the anticipated existing and future 100- year frequency flood discharge
with no more than a one-tenth-foot increase in stage due to any loss of flood
conveyance or storage and no more than a 10% increase in velocities. FLOODWAYS
are designated by FEMA on some flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary and
floodway maps. However, there are floodways on all streams whether mapped by
FEMA or not.
   GRADING. The excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include
the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
   HYDROGRAPH. A graph showing for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
   HYDROGRAPH METHOD. This method estimates runoff volume and runoff
hydrographs for the point of interest by generating hydrographs for individual
subareas, combining them and routing them through stream lengths and reservoir
structures. Factors such as rainfall amount and distribution, runoff curve
number, time of concentration and travel time are included.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. The area of property that is covered by materials other
than soil and vegetation and that has no intended capacity to absorb water,
such as parking lots, driveways, sidewalks, patios, tennis courts, roofs and
other structures.
   INFILTRATION. The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
   LOESSAL SOIL. A sediment, commonly non-stratified and un-consolidated,
composed predominately of silt sized particles with accessory clay and sand.
   LOT. An individual platted parcel in an approved subdivision.
   MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
   MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels and swales and, where human-made, is to be designed to handle the
two-year runoff event.
   MITIGATION. When the prescribed controls are not sufficient and additional
measures are required to offset the development, including those measures
necessary to minimize the negative effects which storm water drainage and
development activities might have on the public health, safety and welfare.
Examples of MITIGATION include, but are not limited to, compensatory storage,
soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
   MODIFIED RATIONAL METHOD. As described in the Illinois Department of
Transportation Drainage Manual is based on the principal that the maximum rate
of runoff from a given drainage area occurs at that point in time when all
parts of the watershed are contributing to the flow. The rainfall generating
the peak flow is assumed to be of uniform intensity for the entire watershed
with a rainfall duration equal to the time of concentration.
   NATURAL. Conditions resulting from physical, chemical and biological
processes without intervention by humans.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR EVENT. A rainfall, runoff or flood event having a 1% chance
of occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed unless
otherwise noted.
   PARCEL. All contiguous land in one’s ownership.
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel
or conduit.
   PERMITEE. Any person to whom a building permit is issued.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm or corporation, public or private, the state
and its agencies or political subdivisions, the United States of America, and
its agencies or political subdivisions, and any agent, servant, officer or
employee of any of the foregoing.
   POSITIVE DRAINAGE. Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property
including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
   PRIME FARMLAND. Land that is best suited to food, feed, forage, fiber and
oilseed crops. It may be cropland, pasture, woodland or other land, but it is
not urban and built up land or water areas. It is either used for food or fiber
or is available for those uses. The soil qualities, growing season and moisture
supply are those needed for a well managed soil to economically produce a
sustained high yield of crops. PRIME FARMLAND produces the highest yields with
minimum inputs of energy and economic resources, and farming it results in the
least damage to the environment.
   PROPERTY. A parcel of real estate.
   RETENTION BASIN. A facility designed to completely retain a specified amount
of storm water runoff without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration, emergency bypass or pumping.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or storm water drainage
systems.
   SITE. A parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation.
   SINKHOLE, (KARST AREAS). A land surface depression or blind valley which may
or may not have surface openings to cavernous underground areas and are the
result of water movement through silts and jointed limestone. These conditions
make such areas unstable and susceptible to subsidence and surface collapse.
Fractures in the limestone may channel runoff water to public or private water
supplies, making those sources especially susceptible to groundwater
contamination.
   SLOPE DISTURBANCE LINE. The line which delineates relatively level building
areas from areas where slopes exceed 8% and where special precautions must be
taken.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water.
   STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural and human-made, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area to the point of
final outlet from a property. The storm water drainage system includes, but is
not limited to, any of the following: conduits and appurtenance features;
canals; channels; ditches; streams; culverts; streets; storm sewers; detention
basins; swales; and pumping stations.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling
within a tributary drainage basin which are in excess of the infiltration
capacity of the soils of that basin, which flow over the surface of the ground
or are collected in channels or conduits.
   STREAM. Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine or natural or
human-made drainage way which has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or
into which surface or groundwater flows, either perennially or intermittently.
   STRIPPING. Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, by spraying or clearing, and storage removal of top soil.
   TEN-YEAR EVENT. A runoff, rainfall or flood event having a 10% chance of
occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed unless
otherwise note.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION. The elapsed time for storm water to flow from the
most hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
   TRIBUTARY WATERSHED. All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to
a given point.
   TWO-YEAR EVENT. A runoff rainfall, or flood event having a 50% chance of
occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed unless
otherwise noted.
   VACANT. Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
   WATERSHED. All land area drained by, or contributing water to, the same
stream, creek, ditch, lake, marsh, storm water facility, groundwater or
depressional area.
   WET BASIN. A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of storm water runoff.
   WETLANDS. Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. For general, but no inclusive locations of
designated WETLANDS refer to mapping prepared jointly by the U.S. Department of
Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service and the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources, Office of Resource Conservation: National Wetlands Inventory
Mapping, 1987. The applicant may be required to provide a field investigation
by a qualified wetland delineator.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
STORM WATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION
§ 153.035 DRAINAGE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each applicant shall submit the following information, to ensure that
the provisions of this chapter are met. The submittal shall include sufficient
information to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the property, the
potential adverse impacts and benefits of the development on water resources
both on-site and off-site, and the effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan
in managing storm water runoff, and meet the provisions of §
153.002. The applicant shall certify on the drawings that all clearing,
grading, drainage and construction shall be accomplished in strict conformance
with the drainage plan.
   (B)   The following information shall be submitted for both existing and
proposed property conditions for all new development or redevelopment.
      (1)   Drainage plan requirements. A topographic survey of the property at
two-foot contours unless otherwise specified or approved by the county. If the
mapping is compiled using a digital format and the global positioning system
(GPS), the applicant will provide both paper and digital copies including GPS
points.
      (2)   Mapping and descriptions. An existing drainage and proposed
drainage plan, for the property and 100 feet surrounding the property at a
scale of not more than 100 feet to one inch and including the following:
         (a)   Property boundary, dimensions and approximate acreage;
         (b)   Building setback lines;
         (c)   All existing and proposed structures and sizes;
         (d)   Area in square feet of existing and proposed impervious surface;
         (e)   All existing or proposed easements;
         (f)   All existing, abandoned or proposed water or monitoring well
head locations;
         (g)   All sanitary or combined sewer lines and septic systems;
         (h)   The banks and centerline of streams and channels;
         (i)   Shoreline of lakes, ponds and detention basins with normal water
level elevation;
         (j)   Known farm drains and tiles;
         (k)   Soils classifications;
         (l)   Location, size and slope of storm water conduits and drainage
swales;
         (m)   Depressional storage areas;
         (n)   Detention facilities;
         (o)   Roads, streets and associated storm water inlets including
finished grades;
         (p)   Base flood elevation, flood fringe and regulatory floodway;
         (q)   Basis of design for the final drainage network components;
         (r)   A statement giving any applicable engineering assumptions and
calculations;
         (s)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the site to its
general surroundings at a scale of not less than 2,000 feet to one inch (1:
24,000);
         (t)   Title, scale, north arrow, legend, seal of licensed professional
engineer, date and name of person preparing plans;
         (u)   Cross-section data for open channel flow paths and designated
overland flow paths;
         (v)   Direction of storm flows;
         (w)   Flow rates and velocities at critical points in the drainage
system (may be included in the supporting documentation);
         (x)   A statement by the design engineer of the drainage system’s
provision for handling events greater than the 100-year, 24-hour runoff (may be
included in the supporting documentation); and
         (y)   A statement of certification of all drainage plans, calculations
and supporting data by a licensed professional engineer.
      (3)   Environmental features. A depiction of environmental features of
the property and immediate vicinity including the following:
         (a)   The limits of designated regulatory and non-regulatory wetland
areas;
         (b)   The location and limits of known sinkholes (karst areas);
         (c)   Any known designated natural areas, prime farmland; and
         (d)   Any known proposed environmental mitigation features.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.036 MINIMIZATION OF INCREASES IN RUNOFF VOLUMES AND RATES.
   (A)   In the selection of a drainage plan for a new development or
redevelopment, the applicant shall evaluate and implement site design features
which minimize the increase in runoff volumes and rates from the site.
   (B)   The applicant’s drainage plan submittal shall include evaluations of
site design features which are consistent with the following hierarchy:
      (1)   Preservation of regulatory floodplains, flood prone and wetland
areas;
      (2)   Minimize impervious surfaces on the property, consistent with the
needs of the project;
      (3)   Attenuate flows by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions and preserves the existing natural stream channel;
      (4)   Infiltration of runoff on-site;
      (5)   Provide storm water retention structures;
      (6)   Provide wet or wetland detention structures;
      (7)   Provide dry detention structures; and
      (8)   Construct storm sewers.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.037 WATER QUALITY AND MULTIPLE USES.
   (A)   The drainage system should be designed to minimize adverse surface and
groundwater quality impacts off-site and on the property itself. Detention
basins shall incorporate design features to capture storm water runoff
pollutants. When designers propose wet bottom and wetland type designs, all
flows from the development shall be routed through the basin (i.e. low flows
shall not be bypassed). When it is not practical or feasible to route all of
the project’s flow to the detention basin, the design of the basin shall
compensate for the bypass flow. In cases where detention facilities are
practical and the long term maintenance of such facilities are provided for,
detention of storm water shall be promoted through the property’s drainage
system to reduce the volume of storm water runoff and to reduce the quantity of
runoff pollutants.
   (B)   The drainage system should incorporate multiple uses where
practicable. Uses considered compatible with storm water management include
open space, aesthetics, aquatic habitat, recreation (boating, fishing, trails,
playing fields), wetlands and water quality mitigation.
   (C)   Water quality shall adhere to:
      (1)   Illinois Environmental Protection Act: 415 ILCS 5/11 and 5/12, from
Ch. 111-1/2, par 1011 and 1012;
      (2)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulation: Title 35:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution
Control Board, Part 302 Water Quality Standards; and
      (3)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Title 35:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution
Control Board, Part 304 Effluent Standard.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.038 DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS AND METHODS.
   (A)   (1)   Release rates. The drainage system for new developments or
redevelopments shall be designed to control the peak rate of discharge from the
property for the two-year, 24-hour and 100-year, 24-hour events to discharge
rates at or below those which existed prior to development. Additionally, the
discharge from a storm water detention facility shall not cause an increase in
flooding or channel instability downstream when considered in aggregate with
other developed properties and downstream drainage capacities.
      (2)   Detention basin outlet design. The detention basin outlet control
structure shall be designed to account for observed or anticipated downstream
tailwater elevations. The tailwater elevations used in the detention model
shall be for the particular storm frequency being routed through the detention
basin. An emergency spillway or overflow device shall be provided and set at an
elevation equivalent to the 100-year design high water. A calculation shall be
made to determine the water elevation in the detention basin that would result
from a 100-year storm with the outflow control structure openings blocked. The
discharge rate flowing through the emergency spillway shall not exceed the 100-
year pre-development flow rate. The top of bank for the detention basin shall
be set at least one foot above this elevation. The lowest finished floor
elevation of adjacent structures shall also be at least one foot above the
detention basin top of bank.
   (B)   Detention storage requirements. See division (A) above.
   (C)   Drainage system design and evaluation. The following criteria should
be used in evaluating and designing the drainage system. The design will
provide capacity to pass the ten-year peak flow rate in the minor drainage
system and an overload flow path for flows in excess of the design capacity.
      (1)   Design methodologies. Detention basin design shall be calculated
using NRCS TR-55 methods. Basins with drainage areas of ten acres or less may
be calculated using the rational method as approved by the Illinois Department
of Transportation. Other applicable methods, i.e., HEC-1, TR-20, SWMM and the
like shall be used for large watersheds.
      (2)   Positive drainage. When practical, all developments must be
provided an overland flow path that will pass the 100-year, 24-hour event flow
at a stage at a stage at least one foot below the lowest grade, adjacent to a
structure, in the vicinity of the flow path. Street ponding and flow depths
shall not exceed curb heights.
   (D)   Rainfall. Unless a continuous simulation approach to drainage system
hydrology is used, all design rainfall events shall be based on the Illinois
State Water Survey’s Bulletin 70.
      (1)   The first quartile point rainfall distribution shall be used for
the design and analysis of conveyance systems with critical durations less than
or equal to six hours.
      (2)   The second quartile distribution shall be used for storms with
durations greater than six hours and less than or equal to 12 hours.
      (3)   The third quartile point rainfall distribution shall be used for
the design and analysis of detention basins and conveyance system with critical
durations greater than 12 and less than or equal to 24 hours.
      (4)   The fourth quartile distribution shall be used in the design and
analysis of systems with durations greater than 24 hours.
      (5)   The first, third and fourth quartile distributions described by
Huff are presented in Table 37 of Bulletin 70. Refer to Table 13 of Bulletin 70
for rainfall depth, duration and frequency. The NRCS Type II distribution may
be used as an alternate to the Huff distributions. The total rainfall value for
the design storm shall be adjusted for the “St. Louis Urban Effect” as given in
Table 4, Illinois State Water Survey Circular 172.
   (E)   Antecedent moisture. Average antecedent moisture conditions shall be
assumed when calculating runoff curve numbers for use in the NRCS TR-55 method.
   (F)   Wet detention basin design. Wet detention basins shall be designed to
remove storm water pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as
much as feasible to be available for recreational use.
      (1)   Wet basin depths. Wet basins shall be at least three feet deep,
excluding nearshore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be provided
they shall be at least eight feet deep over 25% of the bottom area to prevent
winterkill.
      (2)   Wet basin shoreline slopes. The side slopes of wet basins at the
normal pool elevation shall not be steeper than three to one (3 to 1 horizontal
to vertical). It is recommended that aquatic vegetation be established around
the perimeter to provide protection from shorelines erosion. For basins in
excess of five acres, riprap shoreline protection shall be provided.
      (3)   Permanent pool volume. The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at
normal depth shall, at a minimum, be equal to the runoff volume from its
watershed for the two-year, 24-hour event (calculated during dry weather
conditions).
      (4)   Wet basin inlet and outlet orientation. The distance between
detention inlets and outlets shall be maximized. Inlets and outlets shall be at
opposite ends of the basin providing that the orientation does not create undue
hardship based on topography or other natural constraints.
   (G)   Dry detention basin design. In addition to the other requirements of
this chapter, dry basins shall be designed to remove storm water pollutants, to
be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and as much as feasible to be available
for multiple uses. Paved low flow channels may be used in a dry basin provided
provisions are made to prevent ponding.
   (H)   (1)   Dry basin drainage. Dry basins shall be designed so that 80% of
their bottom area shall have standing water no longer than 72 hours for any
runoff event less than the 100-year, 24-hour event. Grading plans shall clearly
distinguish the wet portion of the basin bottom. Underdrains directed to the
outlet may be used to accomplish this requirement.
      (2)   Velocity dissipation. Velocity dissipation measures shall be
incorporated into dry basin designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets
and to minimize resuspension of pollutants.
      (3)   Dry basin inlet and outlet orientation. Shall be the same as
division (F)(4) above.
   (I)   Existing depressional areas. Existing depressional storage volume will
be maintained and the volume of detention storage provided to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to existing storage.
   (J)   Minimum detention outlet size. Where a single pipe outlet orifice
plate is to be used to control discharge, it shall have a minimum diameter of
12 inches for larger basins. Smaller basins may install a smaller rectangular
or v-notch weir to control discharge. If this minimum orifice size permits
release rates greater than those specified in this section, and regional
detention is not a practical alternative, outlets, structures such as
perforated risers, or flow control orifices shall be used.
   (K)   (1)   Detention in floodplains. The placement of detention basins
within the floodplain is strongly discouraged because of questions about their
reliable operation during flood events. However, the storm water detention
requirements of this chapter may be fulfilled by providing detention storage
within flood fringe areas on the project site provided the following provisions
are met as well as compliance with §
153.002.
      (2)   Detention in flood fringe areas. The placement of a detention basin
in a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for one and one-half
times the volume below the base flood elevation occupied by the detention basin
including any terms. The release from the detention storage provided shall
still be controlled consistent with the requirements of this section. The
applicant shall demonstrate its operation for all streamflow and floodplain
backwater conditions.
         (a)   Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses shall be
opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention.
         (b)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing ten-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the existing ten-year elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing ten-year elevation shall be replaced
above the existing ten-year flood elevation. All compensatory storage
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse
and comply with §
153.002.
      (3)   Detention on prime farmland. The placement of detention basins
shall avoid the utilization of prime farmland. All detention basin construction
shall examine potential impacts to adjacent agricultural land and shall address
measures that will be implemented to eliminate such impacts and comply with §
153.002.
      (4)   Detention in floodways. Detention basins shall be placed in the
floodway only in accordance with division (K)(1) above.
      (5)   On-stream detention. On-stream detention basins are discouraged but
allowable if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other
provisions of this chapter with respect to water quality and control of the
100-year 24-hour events from the property. Further criteria are presented in §
153.039. If on-stream detention is used in watersheds larger than one square
mile, the applicant will use hydrographic modeling to demonstrate that the
design will not increase the water level for any properties upstream or
downstream of the property. Also, impoundment of the stream as part of on-
stream detention shall:
         (a)   Not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species, which
require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for
spawning;
         (b)   Not cause or contribute to the degradation of water quality or
stream aquatic habitat;
         (c)   Include a design calling for gradual bank slopes, appropriate
bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation basin;
         (d)   Not involve any stream channelization or the filling of
wetlands;
         (e)   Require the implementation of an effective non-point source
management program throughout the upstream watershed which shall include as a
minimum: runoff reduction best management practices (BMPs) consistent with §
153.036; two-year, 24 hour detention/sedimentation basin for all development
consistent with this division (K)(5);
         (f)   Not occur downstream of a wastewater discharge;
         (g)   Not contribute to the duration or flood frequency of any
adjacent land; and
         (h)   Comply with §
153.002.
   (L)   Drainage into wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds and depressional
storage areas. Wetlands, lakes, ponds and depressional storage areas shall be
protected from damaging modifications and adverse changes in runoff quality and
quantity associated with land developments. In addition to the other
requirements of this chapter, the following requirements shall be met for all
developments whose drainage flows into wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or
depressional storage areas.
      (1)   Detention in wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds or
depressional storage areas. Existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or
depressional storage areas shall not be modified for the purpose of storm water
detention unless it is demonstrated that the proposed modifications will
maintain or improve its habitat and ability to perform beneficial functions and
shall comply with §
153.002. Existing storage and release rate characteristics of wetlands, rivers,
lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas shall be maintained and the volume
of detention storage provided to meet the requirements of this section shall be
in addition to this existing storage.
      (2)   Sediment control. The existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds, or
depressional storage areas shall be protected during construction and as
further regulated in §§
153.055 through
153.060.
      (3)   Alteration of drainage patterns. Site drainage patterns shall not
be altered to substantially decrease or increase the existing area tributary to
the wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas.
      (4)   Detention/sedimentation. All runoff from the development shall be
routed through a preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture
the two-year, 24-hour event and hold it for at least 24 hours, before being
discharged to the wetland, river, lake, pond or depressional storage area. This
basin shall be constructed before property grading begins and shall be
maintained throughout the construction process. In addition, the drainage
hierarchy defined in §
153.036 should be followed to minimize runoff volumes and rates being
discharged to the wetland, river, stream, lake, pond or depressional storage
area and as further regulated in and this section.
      (5)   Loessal soils. Care must be taken to avoid open flow discharges of
storm water over silt (loessal) soils due to high potential for erosion.
      (6)   Sinkholes, karst area. The following requirements apply for new
developments or redevelopments where sinkholes are determined to be present.
         (a)   A storm water detention basin shall not be placed in or over a
sinkhole.
         (b)   Storm water detention basins shall not be located closer than
100 feet from the rim of a sinkhole.
         (c)   The outflow from a storm water detention basin, channel, ditch
or any storm water runoff generated as a result of a new development or
redevelopment shall not empty into or be directed, redirected by any means into
or through any sinkhole.
         (d)   If, after the review of the storm water drainage plan, the Code
Administrator may determine that more detailed information is required, a
sinkhole evaluation may be required. A sinkhole evaluation which addresses the
geologic, engineering and environmental factors resulting from a new
development or redevelopment be performed by a professional with experience and
expertise in karst topography, whom shall certify the results of the
evaluation. This evaluation shall be the responsibility of the applicant and
performed at no cost to the county. After a review of this evaluation and with
the consultation of the County Soil and Water Conservation District, the County
Code Administrator may either approve or disapprove the drainage plan as
submitted.
         (e)   Whenever a new sinkhole appears or it becomes apparent that the
sinkhole has not yet been identified, it shall be reported to the County Soil
and Water Conservation District.
         (f)   Compliance with §
153.002 is required.
   (M)   Street detention, parking lot detention and culvert drainage.
      (1)   Street detention. If streets are to be used as part of the minor or
major drainage system, ponding depths shall not exceed curb heights and shall
not remain flooded for drainage system, ponding depths shall not exceed curb
heights and shall not remain flooded for more than eight hours for any event
less than or equal to the 100-year, 24-hour event.
      (2)   Parking lot detention. The maximum storm water ponding depth in any
parking area shall not exceed six inches for more than four hours.
      (3)   Culvert, road and driveway crossings. Sizing of culvert crossings
shall consider entrance and exit losses as well as tailwater conditions on the
culvert.
   (N)   (1)   Infiltration practices. To effectively reduce runoff volumes,
infiltration practices including basins, trenches and porous pavement should be
located in hydrologic soil groups “A” and “B” as designated by the U.S.D.A.
Natural Resources Conservation Service. Infiltration basins and trenches
designed to re-charge groundwater shall not be located within 75 feet of a
water supply well or building foundation and comply with §
153.002. A sediment settling basin shall be provided to remove coarse sediment
from storm water flows before they reach infiltration basins or trenches. Storm
water shall not be allowed to stand more than 72 hours over 80% of the dry
basin’s bottom area for the maximum design event to be exfiltrated. The bottom
of infiltration basins or trenches shall be a minimum of four feet above the
seasonally high groundwater and bedrock level. Engineering calculations
demonstrating infiltration rates shall be included with the application.
      (2)   Vegetated filter strips and swales. To effectively filter storm
water pollutants and promote infiltration of runoff sites should be designed to
maximize the use of vegetated filter strips and swales. Whenever practicable,
runoff from impervious surfaces should be directed onto filter strips and
swales comprised of native grasses and forbs before being routed to a storm
sewer or detention basin.
   (O)   Safety considerations. The drainage system components, especially all
detention basins, shall be designed to protect the safety of any children or
adults coming in contact with the system during runoff events and shall comply
with §
153.002.
      (1)   Slide slopes. The side slopes of all detention basins at 100-year,
24-hour capacity shall be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls
into the basin and for stability and ease of maintenance. Side slopes of
detention basins and open channels shall not be steeper than three to one
(horizontal to vertical).
      (2)   Safety ledge. All wet detention basins shall have a level safety
ledge at least four feet in width two and one-half to three feet below the
normal water depth or must be protected by an enclosed fence, at least 48
inches in height.
      (3)   Velocity. Velocities throughout the surface drainage system shall
be controlled to safe levels taking into consideration rates and depths of
flow.
      (4)   Overflow structures. See division (A)(2) above.
   (P)   Maintenance considerations. The storm water drainage system shall be
designed to minimize and facilitate maintenance. Turfed side slopes shall be
designed to allow lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins
shall be provided with alternate outflows which can be used to completely drain
the pool for sediment removal. Pumping may be considered if drainage by gravity
is not feasible. Presedimentation basins shall be included, where feasible, for
localizing sediment deposition and removal. Site access for heavy equipment
shall be provided.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.039 ACCOMMODATING FLOWS FROM UPSTREAM TRIBUTARY AREAS.
   (A)   Storm water runoff from areas tributary to the property shall be
considered in the design of the property’s drainage system.
   (B)   Whenever practicable, flows from upstream areas that are not to be
detained should be routed around the basin being provided for the site being
developed.
      (1)   Upstream areas not meeting chapter requirements.
         (a)   When there are areas not meeting the storage and release rates
of this chapter, tributary to the applicant’s property, regionalized detention
on the applicant’s property shall may be explored by the applicant or the
county. When it is deemed beneficial by the county or the applicant to explore
such a design, the following steps shall be followed:
            1.   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for his
or her property using the release rates of §
153.038, the applicant’s property area and the procedures described in §
153.037;
            2.   Areas tributary to the applicant’s property, not meeting the
storage and release rate requirements of this chapter, shall be identified; and
            3.   Using the areas determined above plus the applicant’s property
area, total storage needed for the combined properties shall be computed.
         (b)   Allowable release rates shall be computed using the combined
property areas. Storage shall be computed as described in §
153.038. If tributary areas are not developed, a reasonable fully developed
land cover shall be assumed for the purposes of computing storage.
         (c)   Once the necessary combined storage is computed, the county may
choose to pay for over-sizing the applicant’s detention basin to accommodate
the regional flows. The applicant’s responsibility will be limited to the
storage for his or her property as computed above. If regional storage is
selected by the county then the design is produced in §
153.037 shall be implemented. If regional storage is rejected by the county,
the applicant shall bypass all tributary area flows around the applicant’s
basin whenever practicable. If the applicant must route upstream flows through
his or her basin and the upstream areas exceed one-square mile in size, the
applicant must meet the provision of §
153.038(K)(5) for on-stream basins.
      (2)   Upstream areas meeting chapter requirements. When there are areas
which meet the storage and release rate requirements of this chapter, tributary
to the applicant’s property, the upstream flows shall be bypassed around the
applicant’s detention basin if this is the only practicable alternative.
Storage needed for the applicant’s property shall be computed as described in
division (B)(1) above. However, if the county decides to route tributary area
flows through an applicant’s basin, the final design storm water releases shall
be based on the combined total of the applicant’s property plus tributary
areas. It must be shown that at no time will the release rate from the combined
property exceed the allowable release rate for applicant’s property alone.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.040 EARLY COMPLETION OF DETENTION FACILITIES.
   Where detention, retention or depressional storage areas are to be used as
part of the drainage system for a property, they shall be constructed as the
first element of the initial earthwork program. Any eroded sediment captured in
these facilities shall be removed by the applicant on a regular basis and
before project completion in order to maintain the design volume of the
facilities.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 153.055 FINDINGS.
   The county hereby finds that:
   (A)   The soil types found in the county are susceptible to erosion and left
unprotected could cause severe loss of soil with resultant damage to property;
   (2)   The topography of the county contains areas with steep slopes upon
which, if clearing of trees and/or inappropriate construction takes place,
could result in severe erosion and slope stability problems which could result
in damage to property;
   (3)   Excessive quantities of soil may erode from areas undergoing
development for certain non-agricultural uses including, but not limited to,
the construction of dwelling units, commercial buildings and industrial plants,
the buildings of roads and highways, the modification of stream channels and
drainage ways, and the creation of recreational facilities;
   (4)   The washing, blowing and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof, by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
   (5)   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gullies, washed out
fills and embankments;
   (6)   Sediment from soil erosion tends to clog sewers and ditches and to
pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes, sinkholes, wetlands and reservoirs;
   (7)   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most beneficial
purposes, promotes the growth of undesirable aquatic weeds, destroys fish and
other desirable aquatic life, and is costly and difficult to remove; and
   (8)   Sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways and the storage
capacity of floodplains and natural depressions, resulting in increased chances
of flooding at risk to public health and safety.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.056 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   (A)   It is the objective of this chapter to control soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by development activities, including clearing, grading,
stripping, excavating and filling of land in the county. Measures taken to
control soil erosion and off-site sediment runoff shall be adequate to assure
that sediment is not transported from the site by a storm event of ten-year,
24-hour frequency or less.
   (B)   The following principles shall apply to all new development or
redevelopment activities within the county and to the preparation of the
submissions required under §
153.057.
      (1)   New development or redevelopment shall be related to the topography
and soils of the site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of
steep slopes greater than 33% where high cuts and fills may be required are to
be avoided whenever possible, and natural contours should be followed as
closely as possible.
      (2)   Natural vegetation shall be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds,
sinkholes, and wetlands are to be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary
crossings of watercourses, when permitted, must include appropriate
stabilization measures.
      (3)   Special precautions shall be taken to prevent damages resultant
from any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake,
pond, sinkhole or wetland. Preventive measures shall reflect the sensitivity of
these areas to erosion and sedimentation.
      (4)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the
shortest practical time during development.
      (5)   Sediment basins or traps, filter barriers, diversions and any other
appropriate sediment or runoff control measures shall be installed prior to
site clearing and grading and maintained to remove sediment from run-off waters
from land undergoing development.
      (6)   The selection of erosion and sediment control measures shall be
based on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events
likely to contribute to erosion, and on evaluation of the risks, costs and
benefits involved.
      (7)   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices,
aesthetics and the requirements of continuing maintenance must be considered.
      (8)   Provisions shall be made to accommodate the increased run-off
caused by changing soil and surface conditions during and after development.
Drainage ways should be designed so that their final gradients and the
resultant velocities and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion
on-site or downstream.
      (9)   Permanent vegetation and structures shall be installed and
functional as soon as practical during development.
      (10)   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other
land uses shall be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
      (11)   All waste generated as a result of site development activity shall
be properly disposed of and shall be prevented from being carried off the site
by either wind or water.
      (12)   All construction sites shall provide measures to prevent sediment
from being tracked onto public or private roadways.
      (13)   All temporary soil erosion and sediment control practices shall be
maintained to function as intended until the contributing drainage area has
been permanently stabilized at which time they shall be removed.
   (C)   Water quality shall adhere to:
      (1)   Illinois Environmental Protection Act: 415 ILCS 5/11 and 5/12, from
Ch.111-1/2, par 1011 and 1012;
      (2)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Title 35:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water Pollution, Chapter 1: Pollution
Control Board, Part 302 Water Quality Standards; and
      (3)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations: Title 35:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution
Control Board, Part 304 Effluent Standards.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.057 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each applicant shall submit the information depending on development
size, as regulated to ensure that the provisions of this chapter are met. The
submittal shall include sufficient information to evaluate the environmental
characteristics of the property, the potential adverse impacts of the
development related to erosion both on-site and off-site, and the effectiveness
of the proposed erosion and sediment control plan in reducing sediment loss and
meet the provisions of §
153.002. The applicant shall certify on the drawing that all clearing, grading,
drainage and construction shall be accomplished in strict conformance with the
erosion and sediment control plan.
   (B)   The following information shall be submitted for both existing and
proposed property conditions; new development or redevelopments meeting the
requirements of §
153.003.
      (1)   Erosion and sediment control plan requirements. Shall meet the
requirements of §§
153.002 and
153.035(B)(1) and (B)(2).
      (2)   Mapping and descriptions. The existing and proposed erosion and
sediment control features of the property and immediate vicinity including:
         (a)   As required in §
153.035(B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3);
         (b)   Location of the slope disturbance line;
         (c)   Location and description of the erosion and sediment control
measures to be employed during construction;
         (d)   1.   For any structures proposed to be located on the slope side
of the slope disturbance line the map shall include the limits of disturbance
including tree removal, erosion and sediment control measures during
construction, cross-section view of any proposed cut or fill, erosion and
sediment control measures during construction, details of method(s) proposed
for providing slope stability, permanent storm water control measures and
permanent erosion and sediment control measures all being certified by a
registered professional engineer or a certified professional erosion control
specialist; and
            2.   The predominant soil types on the site, their location and
their limitations for the proposed use as defined by the U.S.D.A. Natural
Resources Conservation Service.
         (e)   The proposed use of the site, including present and planned
development, areas of clearing, stripping, grading, excavation and filling;
proposed contours, finished grades, and street profiles; the storm water plan
as required in §§
153.035 through
153.040; kinds and locations of utilities, areas and acreages proposed to be
paved, sodded or seeded, vegetatively stabilized, or left undisturbed; and the
location of specimen trees over 18 inches in diameter and their type;
         (f)   The erosion and sediment control plan showing all measures
necessary to meet requirements of this chapter throughout all phases of
construction and those remaining permanently after completion of the
development of the site, including:
            1.   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures, runoff control measures, including diversions,
waterways and outlets, and design specifics of sediment basins and traps
including outlet details;
            2.   Location and description of all soil stabilization and erosion
control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of
seedbed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and
fertilizer application, kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and
permanent vegetative control measures, and types of non-vegetative
stabilization measures;
            3.   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of
sediment off-site including construction entrance details, as appropriate;
            4.   Description of dust and traffic control measures;
            5.   Locations of stockpiles and description of stabilization
methods;
            6.   Location of off-site fill or borrow volumes, locations and
methods of stabilization;
            7.   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including type
and frequency of maintenance, easements and estimates of the cost of
maintenance; and
            8.   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping.
               a.   Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing
will begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared area, and the
sequence of installation of temporary sediment control measures (including
perimeter controls), installation of storm water drainage, paving streets and
parking areas, final grading and the establishment of permanent vegetative
cover, and the removal of temporary measures.
               b.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify
the Code Administrator of any significant changes which occur in the site
development schedule after the initial erosion and sediment control plan has
been approved.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.058 DESIGN AND OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. The preparation of soil erosion and sediment control plans
shall follow the principles outlines in the Illinois Procedures and Standards
for Urban Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, excepting Chapter Six
published by the Urban Committee of the Association of Illinois Soil and Water
Conservation Districts. The design criteria, standards and methods shall be
prepared in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the standards
and specifications contained in Illinois Urban Manual prepared for the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency by the U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation
Service, which standards and methods are hereby incorporated into this chapter
by reference. In the event of conflict between the provisions of said manuals
and of this chapter, this chapter shall govern.
   (B)   Erosion and sediment control design requirements. New developments or
redevelopments shall comply with §
153.057 and meet the following.
      (1)   Control measures shall be constructed to control runoff from the
property to such an extent possible that sediment is retained on-site.
      (2)   Temporary on-site control measures required shall be constructed
and functional prior to initiating clearing, grading, stripping, excavating or
fill activities on the site.
      (3)   Disturbed areas shall be stabilized with permanent measures within
seven calendar days following the end of active disturbance, or re-disturbance
consistent with the following criteria.
         (a)   Appropriate permanent stabilization measures shall include
seeding, mulching, sodding, with non-vegetative measures as a last resort.
         (b)   Areas having slopes greater than 33% shall be stabilized with
sod, mat or blanket in combination with seeding or equivalent.
      (4)   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices
must be maintained and repaired as needed to assure effective performance of
their intended function.
      (5)   Site development requirements: on-site sediment control measures,
as specified by the following criteria, shall be constructed as specified in
the referenced handbooks, and functional prior to initiating clearing, grading,
stripping, excavating or fill activities on the site.
         (a)   For new developments or redevelopments less than one acre, or
for a tract of land where a single-family dwelling is being erected and less
than 10,000 square feet of impervious surface is being developed, filter
barriers (including filter fences, straw bales or equivalent control measures)
shall be constructed to control all on-site runoff. Vegetated filter strips,
with a minimum width of 25 feet, may be used as an alternative only where
runoffs in sheet flow is expected.
         (b)   For new developments or redevelopments more than one acre but
less than five acres, a sediment trap designed in accordance with the IEPA
Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion or equivalent control measures
shall be constructed at the down slope point of the disturbed area.
         (c)   For new developments or redevelopments greater than five acres,
a sediment basin or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at the down
slope point of the disturbed area.
         (d)   Sediment basin and sediment trap designs shall provide for both
“dry” detention and “wet” detention sediment storage. The detention storage
shall be composed of equal volumes of “wet” detention storage and “dry”
detention storage and each shall be sized as regulated in §§
153.035 through
153.040. The release rate of the basin shall be that rate as regulated in §§
153.035 through
153.040. The elevation of the outlet structure shall be placed such that it
only drains the dry detention storage.
         (e)   The sediment storage shall be sized to store the estimated
sediment load generated from the site over the duration of the construction
period with a minimum storage equivalent to the volume or sediment generated in
one year. For construction periods exceeding one year, the one-year sediment
load and a sediment removal schedule may be substituted.
         (f)   The alteration of sinkholes by tilling, grading or excavating is
prohibited, including an area within 25 feet from the rim.
         (g)   To the extent possible or as otherwise regulated in this chapter
all desirable trees eight inches in diameter and larger shall be protected for
their present and future value for erosion protection and other environmental
benefits. Trees that have been selected for preservation shall be marked prior
to the beginning of any clearing, grading, stripping, excavation or filling of
the site. A “no construction zone” shall be established and marked at the
perimeter of the drip line of each tree which is to be preserved.
      (6)   Storm water conveyance channels, including ditches, swales and
diversions, and the outlets of all channels and pipes shall be designed and
constructed as regulated in §§
153.035 through
153.040. All constructed or modified channels shall be stabilized within 48
hours, consistent with the standards as required in the IEPA Erosion Control
Manual: Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control.
      (7)   (1)   Land disturbance activities in stream channels shall be
avoided, where possible, or as regulated in §§
153.035 through
153.040. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the following requirements
shall be met.
         (2)   Construction vehicles shall be kept out of the stream channel to
the maximum extent practicable. Where construction crossings are necessary,
temporary crossings shall be constructed of non-erosive material, such as
riprap or gravel. The time and area of disturbance of stream channels shall be
kept to a minimum. The stream channel, including bed and banks, shall be
stabilized within 48 hours after channel disturbance is completed, interrupted
or stopped.
      (8)   Storm sewer inlets and culverts shall be protected by sediment
traps or filter barriers meeting accepted design standards and specifications.
      (9)   Soil storage piles containing more than ten cubic yards of material
shall not be located with a down slope drainage length of less than 25 feet to
a roadway, drainage channel or sinkhole. Filter barriers, including straw
bales, filter fence or equivalent, shall be installed immediately on the down
slope side of the piles.
         (a)   If dewatering devices are used, discharge locations shall be
protected from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be routed through
appropriately designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent and shall not be
deposited into a sinkhole.
         (b)   Each site shall have graveled (or equivalent) entrance roads,
access, drives and parking areas of sufficient length and width to prevent
sediment from being tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment
reaching a public or private road shall be removed by shoveling or street
cleaning (not flushing) before the end of each workday and transported to a
controlled sediment disposal area.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.059 MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES.
   All soil erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be maintained periodically by the applicant
or subsequent land owner during the period of land disturbance and development
of the site in a satisfactory manner to ensure adequate performance.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.060 CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION SITE WASTES.
   All waste materials generated during construction activities must be
properly disposed. Examples of construction site waste may consist of, but not
be limited to, all building materials, raised structure debris, concrete
(including concrete truck wash), asphalt, brick, excess soil, rebar, erosion
and sediment control materials, cleared vegetation, chemicals, temporary
bathroom facilities and all other construction site wastes.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.061 CONSTRUCTION SITE STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Plan.
      (1)   Activities that are applicable to this chapter, per §
153.003, must provide a construction site storm water pollution prevention plan
(CSSPPP).
      (2)   The construction site storm water pollution prevention plan may be
a full sized plan sheet with necessary notes for requirements or may be a
narrative explaining construction site operating procedures to minimize or
eliminate storm water pollution as a result of construction activities.
      (3)   The items covered in an approvable CSSPPP are dependent on the
activities and the materials required on site to complete the project.
Therefor, the detail of the plan may be more or less depending on-site
activities planned.
   (B)   Standard items. Standard items included in a CSSPPP are, but at not
limited to:
      (1)   Purpose;
      (2)   Construction site description;
      (3)   Activities/materials to be addressed in the CSSPPP;
      (4)   Construction site operating procedures;
      (5)   Activities/materials monitoring and maintenance; and
      (6)   Emergency and spill procedures.
   (C)   Change during construction. Should construction site activities/
materials change during construction, the CSSPPP must reflect the changes.
Therefor, the plan must be kept on-site at all times and be altered as
necessary with the approval of the Inspector. Should major changes be
warranted, a revised plan must be submitted for review and approval.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY
§ 153.075 LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   Maintenance of storm water drainage, and erosion and sediment control
facilities located on private property shall be the responsibility of the owner
of that property. Before an appropriate permit is obtained from the county, the
applicant shall execute a maintenance agreement with the county guaranteeing
that the applicant and all future owners of the property will maintain its
storm water drainage and erosion and sediment control system and shall provide
for access to the system for inspection by authorized personnel of the county.
The maintenance agreement shall also stipulate that if the appropriate
personnel of the county notify the property owner in writing of maintenance
problems which require correction, the property owner shall begin such
corrections within 24 hours and shall not extend beyond seven calendar days of
such notification. If the corrections are not made within this time period, the
county may have the necessary work completed and assess the cost to the
property owner. The county has the option of requiring a bond to be filed by
the property owner for maintenance of the storm water drainage and erosion and
sediment control system.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
INSPECTIONS
§ 153.090 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   (a)   The Soil and Water Conservationist shall make inspections as
hereinafter required and shall either approve that portion of the work
completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to comply with
the storm water drainage or erosion and sedimentation control plan as approved.
Plans for grading, stripping, excavating and filling work bearing the stamp of
approval of the Soil and Water Conservationist shall be maintained at the site
during progress of the work.
         (b)   In order to obtain inspections and to ensure compliance with
this chapter, the permittee shall notify the Soil and Water Conservationist
within two working days of the completion of the construction stages specified
below:
            1.   Upon completion of installation of the storm water drainage
and erosion and sediment control measures (including perimeter controls and
diversions), prior to proceeding with any other earth disturbance or grading;
            2.   After stripping and clearing;
            3.   After final grading;
            4.   After seeding and landscaping deadlines; and
            5.   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of
sediment controls.
      (2)   If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done
in phases or areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at
the completion of each of the above work stages in each phase or area. If an
inspection is not made and notified of the results given within five working
days after notice is received by the county from the permittee, the permittee
may continue work at his or her own risk, without presuming acceptance by the
county. Notification of the results of the inspection shall be given in writing
at the site.
   (B)   Bi-weekly inspections. Bi-weekly inspection reports shall be submitted
to the county for all development permits. Except for permits involving the
development of one single-family dwelling, the bi-weekly reports must be
certified by a registered professional engineer, describing the current status
of construction for proposed drainage and detention system, including whether
drainage construction and erosion control has been installed in accordance with
construction plans. Report shall define whether maintenance has been provided
as needed for the erosion.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.091 SPECIALIZED PRECAUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   If at any stage of the grading of any development site the Soil
and Water Conservationist determines by inspection that the nature of the site
is such that further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil
any property, public way, stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the
Soil and Water Conservationist may require, as a condition of allowing the work
to be done, that such reasonable special precautions to be taken as is
considered advisable to avoid the likelihood of such peril.
      (2)   Special precautions may include, but shall not be limited to, a
more level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities,
berms, terracing, compaction or cribbing, installation of plant materials for
erosion control, and recommendations of a registered soils engineer and/or
engineering geologist which may be made requirements for further work.
   (B)   (1)   Where it appears that storm damage may result because the
grading on any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the
permittee required to install temporary structures or take such other measures
as may be required to protect adjoining property or the public safety.
      (2)   On large developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the
Soil and Water Conservationist may specify the time of starting grading and
time of completion or may require that the operations be conducted in specific
stages so as to ensure completion of protective measures or devices prior to
the advent of seasonal rains.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.092 AMENDMENT OF PLANS.
   (A)   Major amendments to storm water drainage and detention or erosion and
sediment control plans shall be submitted to the Code Administrator and shall
be processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the original
plans.
   (B)   Field modification of a minor nature may be authorized by the Code
Administrator by written authorization to the permittee.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
PERMITTING
§ 153.105 APPLICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Application for a development permit shall be made by the owner of the
property or his or her authorized agent to the Code Administrator on a form
furnished for that purpose. Each application shall bear the name(s) and address
(es) of the owner or developer of the site, the contractor(s) and any
consulting firm retained by the applicant together with the name of the
applicant’s principal contact at such firm, and shall be accompanied by a
filing fee of $200 for any permit subject to the requirements of §§
153.035 through
153.040. No permit fee is assessed for those developments where only the
requirements of §§
153.055 through
153.060 apply. Each application shall include certification that any land
clearing, construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be
in accordance with the plans approved upon issuance of the permit.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.106 BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant for a development permit may be required to file with the
county a faithful performance bond or bonds, letter of credit or other
improvement security satisfactory to the County State’s Attorney in an amount
deemed sufficient by the Code Administrator to cover all costs of improvements,
landscaping, maintenance of improvements and landscaping, and soil erosion and
sediment control measures for such period as specified by the county and
engineering and inspection costs to cover the cost of failure or repair of
improvements installed on the site.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.107 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   Each application for a development permit shall be reviewed and acted upon
according to the following procedures.
   (A)   (1)   The Code Administrator will review each application for a
development permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Administrator may also refer any application to the County Soil
and Water Conservation District, a consulting engineer retained by the county,
and or any other local government or public agency within whose jurisdiction
the site is located for review and comment.
      (2)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the Code
Administrator shall in writing:
         (a)   Approve the permit application if it is found to be in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, and issue the permit;
         (b)   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable
conditions as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this
chapter, and issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
         (c)   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies
and the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B)   No development permit shall be issued for an intended development site
unless:
      (1)   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivision or
planned unit development, has been approved by the county where applicable;
      (2)   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the county;
      (3)   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the county for the area in which the
site is situated; and
      (4)   All relevant federal and state permits have been received for the
portion of the site subject to soil disturbance as noted in §
153.002.
   (C)   Failure of the Code Administrator to act on an original or revised
application within 30 days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to proceed
in accordance with the plans as filed and in compliance with the regulations
contained herein, unless such time is extended by agreement between the Code
Administrator and the applicant. Pending preparation and approval of a revised
plan, development activities shall be allowed to proceed in accordance with
conditions established by the Code Administrator.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.108 FINAL CERTIFICATION.
   Prior to final approval by the county, a registered professional engineer
shall certify that detention basin has been constructed in accordance with
construction plans and proposed volume has been provided. An “as-built” survey
of the detention basin, prepared by a license surveyor, shall be included with
the certification for approval.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.109 EXPIRATION OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Every development permit shall expire and become null and void if the work
authorized by such permit has not been commenced within 180 days, or if not
completed by a date which shall be specified in the permit; except that the
Code Administrator may, if the permittee presents satisfactory evidence that
unusual difficulties have prevented work being commenced or completed within
the specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of time if written
application is made before the expiration date of the permit. The Code
Administrator may require modification of the erosion control plan to prevent
any increase in erosion or off-site sediment runoff resulting from any
extension.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.110 APPEALS.
   The applicant, or any person or agency which received notice of the filing
of the application, may appeal the decision of the Code Administrator to the
Subdivision and Land Use Committee. Upon receipt of an appeal, the Subdivision
and Land Use Committee shall schedule and hold a public hearing, after giving
15 days’ notice thereof. The Board shall render a decision within 30 days after
the hearing. Factors to be considered on review shall include, but need not be
limited to, the effects of the proposed development activities on the surface
water flow to tributary and downstream lands, any comprehensive watershed
management plans, or the use of any retention facilities; possible saturation
of fill and unsupported cuts of said fill by water, both natural and domestic;
runoff of surface waters that produce erosion and siltation of drainage ways;
nature and type of soil and excessive and unnecessary scarring of the natural
landscape through grading or removal of vegetation.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.125 STOP-WORK ORDER: REVOCATION OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   In the event any person holding a development permit pursuant to this
chapter violates the terms of the permit, or carries on-site development in
such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare,
environment or safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the
development site or so as to be materially detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the Code
Administrator may suspend or revoke the development permit.
   (B)   Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop-work order issued by
the Code Administrator and delivered to the permittee or his or her agent of
the person performing the work. The stop-work order shall be effective
immediately, shall state the specific violations cited, and shall state the
conditions under which work may be resumed. A stop-work order shall remain in
effect until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Subdivision and Land
Use Committee at which the time the conditions of §
153.109 can be met.
   (C)   (1)   No development permit shall be revoked until a hearing is held
by the Subdivision and Land Use Committee.
      (2)   Written notice of such hearing shall be served on the permittee,
either personally or by registered mail, and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for complaint or reasons for suspension or
revocation, in clear and concise language; and
         (b)   The time when and place where such hearing will be held.
      (3)   Such notice shall be served on the permittee at least five days
prior to the date set for the hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be
given an opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and present evidence on
his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Subdivision and Land
Use Committee shall determine whether the permit shall be revoked.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any grading,
excavating or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day during which
any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued
or permitted shall constitute a separate offence. Upon conviction of any such
violation, such person, partnership or corporation shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $500 for each offense. In addition to any other penalty
authorized by this section, any person, partnership or corporation convicted of
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be required to restore
the site to the condition existing prior to commission of the violation, or to
bear the expense of such.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 154: MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
Manufactured Homes
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Responsibility for enforcement
   
154.04   Conditions
   
154.05   Minimum health and safety standards
   
154.06   Manufactured home parks
   
154.07   Dependent mobile homes, portable sheds, pole barns, sheds, railroad
cars and containers
   
154.08   Registration and moving
   
154.09   Temporary habitations of less than two months
   
154.10   Permitting, inspections, certificate of occupancy and fees
   
154.11   Disposition of non-habitable or abandoned homes, containers or
structures
   
154.12   Exceptions
   
154.13   Means of appeals
Restricting the Entry into and Placement and Installation of Mobile Homes
   
154.25   General
   
154.26   Definitions
   
154.27   Conditions and provisions
   
154.28   Disposition of removed mobile or manufactured homes
   
154.29   Exceptions
   
154.30   Means of appeals
 
   
154.99   Penalty
MANUFACTURED HOMES
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Any manufactured home or other structure that ceases to be
occupied for more than 12 months and no active attempt to rent via regular
advertisement effort or no longer complies with §
154.05; and/or a manufactured home for which an owner cannot be determined
through reasonable efforts that include utilizing the County Supervisor of
Assessments records, or other appropriate sources.
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person seeking to install or place an allowable structure in
the unincorporated area of the county.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the County Code Administrator
certifying that a new manufactured home and pre-owned manufactured homes is in
compliance with applicable requirements set forth by this subchapter, and
indicating it to be in a condition suitable for residential occupancy.
   CODE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. A certificate provided by the manufacturer to
the Department of Public Health that warrants that the manufactured housing
unit or mobile home complies with the applicable code.
   COUNTY CODE ADMINISTRATOR. Person appointed by the County Board of Jersey as
the official of planning, permits and inspections; or any of his or her
assistants and may be referred as CODE OFFICIAL.
   DEAD STORAGE. Keeping or accumulating items or materials that are not being
used for their intended purpose(s) for an extended period of time.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Health.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the
jurisdiction of the county that is subject inundation by the base flood. The
floodplains of the Macoupin Creek, Mill Creek, Phils Creek, Piaso Creek, Otter
Creek, Illinois and Mississippi Rivers are generally identified as such on the
flood insurance rate map of Jersey County prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated April 2, 2009. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas
of known flooding as identified by the community.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a self-contained toilet and
bath or shower facilities.
   IMMOBILIZED MOBILE HOME. A mobile home served by individual utilities
(sewer, water, electricity) resting on a permanent perimeter foundation which
extends below the established frost depth with the wheels, tongue and hitch
removed and the home secured in compliance with the Illinois Mobile Home
Tiedown Act. (210 ILCS 120)
   INSTALL. To construct a foundation system and to place or erect a
manufactured home on such foundation system. Such term includes, without
limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing or anchoring such
manufactured home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such
manufactured home.
   JURISDICTION. The unincorporated areas of Jersey County, Illinois.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A structure that was constructed on or after June 15, 1976 per HUD
requirements and is a factory-assembled, completely integrated structure
designed for permanent habitation, with a permanent chassis, and so constructed
as to permit its transport, on wheels temporarily or permanently attached to
its frame, and is a movable or portable unit that is:
         (a)   Eight body feet or more in width;
         (b)   Forty body feet or more in length; and
         (c)   Three hundred twenty or more square feet, constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of its
construction to the location, or subsequent locations, at which it is installed
and set up according to the manufacturer’s instructions and connected to
utilities for year round occupancy for use as a permanent habitation, and
designed and situated so as to permit its occupancy as a dwelling place for one
or more persons.
      (2)   The term shall include units containing parts that may be folded,
collapsed or telescoped when being towed and that may be expected to provide
additional cubic capacity, and that are designed to be joined into one integral
unit capable of being separated again into the components for repeated towing.
The term excludes campers and recreational vehicles.
   MOBILE HOME.
      (1)   A structure that was constructed before June 15, 1976, and is a
factory-assembled, completely integrated structure designed for permanent
habitation, with a permanent chassis, and so constructed as to permit its
transport, on wheels temporarily or permanently attached to its frame, and is a
movable or portable unit that is:
         (a)   Eight body feet or more in width;
         (b)   Forty body feet or more in length; and
         (c)   Three hundred twenty or more square feet, constructed to be
towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of its
construction to the location, or subsequent locations, at which it is installed
and set up according to the manufacturer’s instructions and connected to
utilities for year-round occupancy for use as a permanent habitation, and
designed and situated so as to permit its occupancy as a dwelling place for one
or more persons.
      (2)   The term shall include units containing parts that may be folded,
collapsed or telescoped when being towed and that may be expected to provide
additional cubic capacity, and that are designed to be joined into one integral
unit capable of being separated again into the components for repeated towing.
The term excludes campers and recreational vehicles.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for five or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park.
      (1)   Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a mobile park if they are
maintained and operated jointly.
      (2)   Neither an immobilized mobile home nor a motorized recreational
vehicle shall be construed as being a part of a MOBILE HOME PARK.
      (3)   All mobile home parks must be in strict compliance with the
Illinois Mobile Home Park Act. 210 ILCS 115/.
   MODULAR HOME. Also known as panelized or prefab, is constructed of premade
parts and unit modules at a factory. Wall panels, trusses and other pre-
fabricated house parts are transported on a flatbed truck from the factory to
the building site, these house sections are lifted onto the foundation where
they are for the locations where they are erected.
   NEC. The National Electrical Code, also referred to as the National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA 70).
   PERMANENT HABITATION. Habitation for a period of two or more consecutive
months.
   POLE BARN. A building which lacks a conventional foundation built from
treated poles, typically at eight-foot intervals and anchored into the ground
with cement and rock. Boards and metals are used for the sides and roof with
screws to attach to the metal. The floor may be concrete, rock or bare ground.
   PORTABLE BUILDING. Any prefabricated structure assembled off site and
delivered to the site as a complete unit or a building purchased in kit form
and assembled onsite, which can be moved without disassembly to another
location.
   PRE-OWNED MANUFACTURED HOME. Any manufactured home that has been previously
used as a dwelling or for any other purpose and has been titled.
   RAILROAD CAR. A railway wagon or railway carriage, also called a train car
or train wagon, is a vehicle used for the carrying of cargo or passengers on a
rail transport system.
   SHIPPING CONTAINERS. A container with strength suitable to withstand
shipment, storage and handling. SHIPPING CONTAINERS range from large reusable
steel boxes used for intermodal shipments to the corrugated boxes and are used
for the shipment of freight. The majority of containers measure eight feet wide
and lengths can be 20 or 40 feet. Standard height measures eight feet six
inches.
   SITE. The lot on which the structure is located or is to be located for
permanent habitation.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground. This includes buildings, mobile homes, manufactured homes, modular
homes, portable sheds, pole barns, trailers, garages, carports, sheds and
shipping containers.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the requirement and
procedures for the management of mobile homes, manufactured homes structures
and pre-owned manufactured homes and similar vehicular equipment designed for
use as a storage, living or business quarters that have been allowed to
deteriorate to the point of constituting a safety and health condition.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.03 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The responsibility for enforcement of this subchapter is hereby assigned to
the County Code Administrator, who is hereby authorized and directed to conduct
and or delegate such inspections in the manner permitted by the laws of the
state as are necessary to ascertain compliance or violation of this subchapter.
The Code Official shall have the authority to appoint a designee, at his or her
discretion, to assist in the enforcement of the subchapter. Nothing in this
section is or shall be construed to limit the authority of any other official
of the county, including without limitation the County Board to observe and
report violations of this subchapter during the course of conduct and within
the scope of official duties.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.04 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to rent, sell or offer for sale within
this state any mobile home manufactured after July 1, 1974, or any manufactured
housing unit (double-wide) manufactured after July 1, 1976, unless such mobile
home or manufactured housing unit bears a seal issued by the Department and a
certification by the manufacturer or dealer, that the mobile home manufactured
housing unit complies with applicable safety code, 430 ILCS 115/3
   (B)   No person shall sell, install or bring into unincorporated county
mobile homes pre-dated of July 1, 1974 (state mobile structure) or a
manufactured unit pre-dated June 15, 1976 (pre-HUD) for occupancy, business or
storage purposes.
   (C)   No dependent mobile home, manufactured home, mobile home or modular
home may be sold, installed or brought into unincorporated county without a
title, code compliant certificate and serial number.
   (D)   No pre-owned manufactured or mobile home older than 12 years from the
current date shall be brought into unincorporated county.
   (E)   No manufactured home or pre-owned mobile home shall be placed for
permanent habitation on an area containing less than 7,200 square feet,
provided that if zoning regulations are subsequently adopted, such area or lot
size shall conform to the related minimum lot size prescribed for the zoning
district in which the manufactured home is located.
   (F)   No manufactured home or pre-owned mobile home for temporary habitation
shall be placed on an area containing not less than 3,000 square feet.
   (G)   Mobile homes or pre-existing mobile homes used for “dead storage”
shall still be required to meet the minimum health and safety standards as
defined in §
154.01.
   (H)   (1)   The Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act requires all manufactured
homes that are moved or set up on site after January 1, 1980 to be tied down in
accordance with rules promulgated by the State Department of Public Health.
      (2)   It is the homeowner’s responsibility to ensure that the home is
tied down within 30 days after the home is installed.
   (I)   All manufactured homes or mobile homes installed after December 31,
2001 shall be installed by a state licensed manufactured home installer.
Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to require a person who installs
a new or used manufactured home on his or her own property outside of a mobile
home park as defined in the Mobile Home Park Act (210 ILCS 115) to acquire an
installer’s license. Such individual also waives any rights under the Act as a
result of not using a licensed installer.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.05 MINIMUM HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS.
   No person shall occupy for the purpose of living within a home which does
not comply with the following requirements before being issued a certificate of
occupancy by the Code Official.
   (A)   HUD Code. Every new manufactured and pre-owned manufactured home
located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401
through 5426 and shall not have been altered in such a way that the home no
longer meets the code.
   (B)   State requirements. Every new manufactured and pre-owned manufactured
home located in the jurisdiction shall be in compliance and enforced with the
State Department of Public Health and the state requirements as listed below:
      (1)   Manufactured Home Quality Assurance Act (430 ILCS 117);
      (2)   Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act (210 ILCS 120);
      (3)   Illinois Modular Dwelling and Mobile Structure Safety Act (430 ILCS
115);
      (4)   Abandoned Mobile Home Act (210 ILCS 117); and
      (5)   Mobile Home Park Act (210 ILCS 115).
   (C)   Pre-owned interior condition. Every floor, interior wall and ceiling
shall be in sound condition. The floor system shall be in sound condition and
free of warping, holes, water damage or deterioration. Doors and windows shall
be operable, water-tight and in good working condition.
   (D)   Exterior. The exterior of all new manufactured homes and pre-owned
manufactured homes shall be free of loose or rotting boards or timbers and any
other conditions that might admit rain or moisture to the interior portions of
the walls or to occupied spaces. The exterior siding shall be free of rot and
rust. Roofs shall be structurally sound and have no obvious defects that might
admit rain or cause moisture to collect on the interior portion of the home.
   (E)   Sanitary facilities. Every plumbing fixture, water and waste pipe of a
new manufactured home and pre-owned manufactured home shall be in sanitary
working condition when properly connected, and shall be free from leaks and
obstructions. Each home shall contain a kitchen sink. Each bathroom shall
contain a lavatory and water closet. At least one bathroom shall contain a tub
and/or shower facilities. Each of these fixtures shall be checked upon being
connected to ensure they are in good working condition.
   (F)   Heating systems. Heating shall be safe and in working condition. Un-
vented heaters shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Electrical systems. Electrical systems (switches, receptacles,
fixtures and the like) shall be properly installed and wired and shall be in
working condition. Distribution panes shall be in compliance with the approved
listing, complete with required breakers, with all unused openings covered with
solid covers approved and listed for that purpose (2014 NEC Article 550). Each
new manufactured and pre-owned manufactured home shall contain a water heater
in safe and working order. No aluminum wire shall be allowed (2014 NEC 550.15).
   (H)   Hot water supply. Each home shall contain a water heater in safe and
working condition.
   (I)   Egress windows. Each bedroom of a manufactured home shall have at
least one operable window of sufficient size to allow egress.
   (J)   Ventilation. The kitchen in the home shall have at least one operating
window or other ventilation device. There shall be adequate ventilation in all
bathrooms.
   (K)   Smoke detectors. Each new and pre-owned manufactured home shall
contain one operable battery-operated smoke detector in each bedroom and in the
kitchen, which must be installed in accordance to the manufacturer’s
instructions.
   (L)   Steps and landings. Steps and landings are required for all new or
pre-owned manufactured homes at an egress door. Loose or/and stacked steps are
strictly prohibited. If the landing is over 30 inches from the ground then
handrails and guardrails are required.
   (M)   Skirting. Installation of skirting shall be required. Installation
shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. Acceptable
materials include masonry, stone, fiberglass, simulated brick or stone, vinyl
or other materials for the purpose of skirting.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.06 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   Proposed manufactured home parks/communities shall be in strict compliance
with the Illinois Mobile Home Park Act (210 ILCS 115).
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.07 DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES, PORTABLE SHEDS, POLE BARNS, SHEDS, RAILROAD
CARS AND CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Dependent mobile homes, portable sheds, pole barns, sheds, railroad
cars or containers shall not be used for permanent habitation or for business
purposes and will be required to sign a non-conversion agreement.
   (B)   A permit must be obtained for dependent mobile homes, portable
buildings, sheds, pole barns, carports and containers before being placed or
moved upon any lot or tract or parcel of land to ensure the structure is in
compliance with ordinances of the county and state statutes.
   (C)   Pole barns, railroad cars or containers must meet all state, federal
and county residential requirements concerning building construction to be
converted into a residential structure. The owner must follow the application
procedure outlined in the code of ordinances and all adopted codes of the
county to be issued a building permit and a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.08 REGISTRATION AND MOVING.
   (A)   Every person, firm, corporation or other entity holding title to or
possessing a new manufactured home and pre-owned manufactured home which is
placed or located within the jurisdiction of the county shall report the
location of the home to the Supervisor of Assessments. When moving, selling or
renting a previously permitted manufactured home under this subchapter,
regardless if the destination is within or outside of the county, the applicant
shall obtain a permit from the Code Administrator prior to moving.
   (B)   The Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act requires all manufactured homes
that are moved or set up on site after January 1, 1980 to be tied down in
accordance with rules promulgated by the State Department of Public Health. It
is the homeowner’s responsibility to ensure that the home is tied down within
30 days after the home is installed. There are no mandatory requirements for
the installers of anchoring equipment but the Department recommends that a
certified manufactured home installer be used. Homeowners may do their own
installation. Anyone that installs tie-down equipment must comply with the
requirements of the Manufactured Home Tiedown Code.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.09 TEMPORARY HABITATIONS OF LESS THAN TWO MONTHS.
   (A)   Each manufactured home, new or pre-owned for permanent habitation, two
months or more, must be an independent manufactured home and immobilized as
defined in §
154.01. It must also have a means of disposal of wastewater as provided for in
§
154.10(A)(1).
   (B)   Each manufactured home, new or pre-owned either dependent or
independent for temporary habitation, less than two months, need not be
immobilized as defined in §
154.01 but must have a means of disposal of wastes which creates neither a
nuisance nor a menace to health. The relocation of less than one-eighth of a
mile of a manufactured home for temporary habitation by the same occupant from
its original location shall not be considered a new location for the purpose of
determining the limitation of less than two months.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.10 PERMITTING, INSPECTIONS, CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND FEES.
   No structure, mobile home, manufactured home, modular home, portable
building, pole barn, garage, carport, shed or container shall be constructed,
moved or placed upon any lot, tract or parcel of land until a building permit
has been obtained as provided in the subchapter.
   (A)   Permit. To obtain a permit, applicants shall provide the Code
Administrator with the following:
      (1)   Permit or letter issued by the County Health Department that
application was made for a waste disposal system or documentation of the
existing system to be in working order;
      (2)   An affidavit signed by the applicant that the pre-owned
manufactured home meets health and safety standards as defined in §
154.05;
      (3)   A drawing of the lot, showing the lot size and planned location of
the structure;
      (4)   Inspection by the Code Administrator to inspect the mobile home on
the exterior and interior;
      (5)   Alternative inspection: at the request of the applicant, the Code
Administrator may inspect a new manufactured home or pre-owned mobile home
prior to its being relocated if the home is then located at another site within
the county;
      (6)   911 address is required for the location of the manufactured home;
      (7)   Zoning permits: if the home is to be located within the mile and
one-half of the municipalities of the City of Jerseyville or Brighton, a zoning
permit is required from the municipality prior to application of a building
permit;
      (8)   A copy of original sales invoice or title to the manufactured home.
(The invoice or title must show the year, make and/or model, square footage and
serial number of home.);
      (9)   Proof the structure meets the standards established under the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42
U.S.C. §§ 5401 through 5426 (HUD Code, see § 154.05(A));
      (10)   Description of foundation and tiedown in accordance with
jurisdiction requirements; and
      (11)   Copy of the mobile home title or bill of sale from manufacturer.
   (B)   Demolition permit. To obtain a demolition permit for deconstruction,
recycling or scrapping of a manufactured, mobile home, pole, barn, portable
building, accessory building, shed, railroad car or containers:
      (1)   Proof of ownership;
      (2)   No tax due letter from the County Treasurer;
      (3)   Agreement with state licensed scrapper or landfill;
      (4)   Detailed information on the nature of demolition; and
      (5)   Proof of disconnection of utility services.
   (C)   Setbacks. No mobile home, manufactured home, modular home or other
structure shall be constructed, established or maintained which does not
conform to the following setbacks.
      (1)   No structure shall be located closer than 35 feet from the road
right-of way of any street or public road.
      (2)   No structure shall be located closer than 15 feet from the property
line in the rear and sides of the lot, tract or parcel of land for residential
use.
   (D)   Fee. A permit fee shall be charged to the applicant to cover the cost
to the county to process the permit applicant and subsequent inspections.
   (E)   Inspections. Upon receipt of a permit, applicants may relocate the
manufactured home on a residential site for the purposes of inspection. The
applicant shall arrange for all required inspections. It is the responsibility
of the property owner to call the Code Administrator office to schedule the
mandatory inspections.
      (1)   Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be
issued to the applicant at such time that the Code Official certifies that the
requirements of the subchapter have been met. No structure may be occupied
until a certificate of occupancy is issued.
      (2)   Expiration. Permits issued are active for 180 days, after the
expiration date a new permit will be required.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.11 DISPOSITION OF NON-HABITABLE OR ABANDONED HOMES, CONTAINERS OR
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Effective as of the date of this subchapter, any owner of a pre-dated
mobile home or manufactured home or property owner that signs a affidavit of
non-habitability with the Supervisor of Assessments must remove the structure
from the county or otherwise be disposed of in a legal manner within 90 days of
the date the of the signed affidavit.
   (B)   Any pre-dated mobile home or manufactured home determined to be
lawfully removed pursuant to 210 ILCS 117 of the Illinois Abandoned Mobile Home
Act or pursuant to Illinois Counties Code 55 ILCS Article 5, generally, and 55
ILCS 5/1121, or under an order of abatement issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction may be disposed of by the county or the county authorized person
or entity having custody of the mobile home or other structures pertaining to
this subchapter. Disposition of such mobile home/structures may be carried out
in compliance with any applicable recycling program and/or ordinances, and
shall not occur until at least 30 calendar days following the probable cause
hearing.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a mobile or manufactured home and for the owner, lessee or
occupant of the real property upon which the home is located to demolish, burn,
deconstruct or scrap in a non legal manner.
   (D)   Before a mobile or manufactured home may be demolished, scrapped,
deconstructed or recycled, the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a mobile or manufactured home and for the owner, lessee or
occupant of the real property upon which the home is located first must obtain
the proper permits from the County Code Administrator.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to mobile homes that
are actively being used for residential purposes; provided that the mobile home
has been properly permitted and is being operated in a lawful manner,
including, but not limited to, operation so as not to constitute a public
nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   The restrictions as provided in this subchapter shall not apply
to any mobile, manufactured or modular home in existence on the effective date
of this subchapter; provided, however, that such nonconformance shall continue
to exist only during the life of such existing mobile home, manufactured home,
residential pole barn or modular home.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit or authorize
any existing mobile homes, manufactured home, residential pole barn or modular
homes to be maintained in violation of any housing or fire protection codes or
statutes now existing or hereinafter enacted the county, state or federal
government.
   (C)   All existing mobile, manufactured, residential pole barn or modular
home shall be exempt from compliance with this subchapter so long as they
remain in their existing locations. If such mobile, manufactured, modular homes
or portable buildings are removed from their existing locations, replacement
units may be so installed only if in compliance with this subchapter, state
statutes and federal regulations.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.13 MEANS OF APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person directly affected by a decision of the Code Official
or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the right to appeal to
the Board of Appeals, provided that a written application for appeal is filed
within 20 days after the day the decision, notice or order was served.
      (2)   An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted there under have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. If a written
appeal is not received within the specified period, the actions of the County
Code Administrator regarding the notice of violation shall stand.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall consist of a minimum of three members who
are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters pertaining to
property maintenance and who are not employees of the jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Code Official shall be an ex officio member but shall have no
vote on any matter before the Board.
      (2)   The Board shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority, and
shall serve staggered and overlapping terms.
      (3)   The chief appointing authority shall appoint two or more alternate
members who shall be called by the Board Chairperson to hear appeals during the
absence or disqualification of a member.
      (4)   Alternate members shall possess the qualifications required for
Board membership.
   (C)   Compensation of members shall be determined by the County Board.
   (D)   The Board shall meet upon notice from the Chairperson, within 20 days
of the filing of an appeal, or at stated periodic meetings. All hearings before
the Board shall be open to the public. The appellant, the appellant’s
representative, the Code Official and any person whose interests are affected
shall be given an opportunity to be heard. A quorum shall consist of not less
than two-thirds of the Board membership.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
RESTRICTING THE ENTRY INTO AND PLACEMENT AND INSTALLATION OF MOBILE HOMES
§ 154.25 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   Promotion and maintenance of property values within the
jurisdiction and the health and general welfare of the citizens of the county
are furthered when standards for the condition of structures, including pre-
owned manufactured homes, are established and enforced.
      (2)   For the purpose of this subchapter, mobile or manufactured homes
constructed prior to July 1,1974 and June 15,1976 will be referred to as PRE-
DATED.
   (B)   The Board finds that mobile homes constructed prior to July 1, 1974
and June 15, 1976 (pre-HUD), were constructed or equipped according to
standards which will not promote the health, safety and general welfare of the
present and future residents of the county, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The walls, ceilings and doors of each compartment containing a gas
fired furnace or water heater were not required to be lined with one-half inch
gypsum board;
      (2)   Each room designated expressly for sleeping purposes was not
required to be equipped with an exit door or at least one outside egress window
or other approved exit device with a minimum clear opening of five feet seven
inches square feet;
      (3)   Most units from 1959 to 1976 were wired with aluminum wire, and
ground fault circuit interrupters (GFI) were not installed;
      (4)   Smoke alarms in older pre-dated mobile homes were dangerous due to
not being hardwired. They are battery operated only; and
      (5)   Interior walls did not have wall linings. The average pre-dated
home burns down in less than five minutes.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions, as well as
those terms defined in §
154.01, shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person seeking to install a pre-dated manufactured home in
the unincorporated area of the county.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person appointed, employed or otherwise designated as
the County Code Administrator, responsible for permitting and inspections, or
any of his or her assistants.
   PRE-DATED. Any manufactured or mobile home constructed prior to July 1, 1974
(state mobile structures) that does not bear a seal issued by the Department
and a certification by the manufacturer that the unit complies with the
applicable safety code; or any manufactured home or mobile home constructed
prior to June 15,1976 (pre-HUD) that is not in compliance with the National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C.
§§ 5401 through 5426.
   PRE-OWNED. Any manufactured home that has been previously used as a
residential dwelling and has been titled.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.27 CONDITIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effective of this date of the adoption of this subchapter, no pre-
dated mobile homes or manufactured homes shall be permitted to enter and remain
in the county or to be installed and placed for habitable living units, storage
or any other purposes within the unincorporated area of the county.
   (B)   Effective as of the date of the adoption of this subchapter, no pre-
dated mobile home or manufactured home shall be moved to any property within
the unincorporated area of the county with the intent that said mobile or
manufactured home be placed and used for any purpose, except as set forth
herein. For purposes of this subchapter, the separation of a pre-dated mobile
or manufactured home from the vehicle transporting it shall be presumptive
evidence of an intent to place and/or install the mobile or manufactured home
on property in the unincorporated area of the county.
   (C)   Provisions relating to the relocation of pre-dated mobile homes within
the county:
      (1)   Any pre-dated mobile home or manufactured home which is currently
installed and occupied as a business or living unit other than the owner of the
mobile home in the unincorporated area of the county shall be permitted to
remain in its present location, but may not be relocated to or installed upon
any other parcel of property in the county;
      (2)   Any pre-dated mobile home which is currently installed and occupied
as a business or living unit by its owner may remain in its present location,
but may not be relocated to or installed upon any other parcel of property in
the county; and
      (3)   Upon the sale or transfer of title of a pre-dated mobile home or
manufactured home structure occupied by its owner, such mobile home may not
thereafter be relocated for use as occupancy to another location in the county.
   (D)   Effective as of the date of this subchapter, any abandoned pre-dated
mobile home or manufactured home must be removed from the county or otherwise
disposed of in a legal manner within 90 days of the date the mobile home is
abandoned.
   (E)   Effective as of the date of this subchapter, any owner of a pre-dated
mobile home or manufactured home or property owner that signs a affidavit of
non-habitability with the Supervisor of Assessments must remove the structure
from the county or otherwise be disposed of in a legal manner within 90 days of
the date the of the signed affidavit.
   (F)   Any pre-dated mobile home or manufactured home which is destroyed or
damaged to the extent of 50% or more of its structure or value must be removed
from the county or otherwise disposed of in a legal manner within 90 days of
its destruction or damage and may not be rebuilt.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.28 DISPOSITION OF REMOVED MOBILE OR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Refer to §
154.11.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.29 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to mobile homes that are
actively being used for residential purposes; provided that the mobile home has
been properly permitted and is being operated in a lawful manner, including,
but not limited to, operation so as not to constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.30 MEANS OF APPEALS.
   Refer to 154.13
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, who violates, disobeys or willfully
fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
a fine of no less than $50 up to $750 for each violation. Each day that such
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Failure to remove a pre-owned manufactured home or any other structure
from the jurisdiction upon failure to receive a certificate of occupancy or
have been cited as a nuisance shall be fined $500. Each day that such violation
exists shall be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   The Board of the county may exercise its powers to recover the cost
incurred of the demolition, repair, enclosure or removal of dangerous and
unsafe structures or uncompleted and abandoned mobile homes, manufactured homes
and other structures in the chapter by placing a lien on the real estate. Court
costs shall be included in the lien and said lien shall be recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord 17-001, passed 12-12-2017)
CHAPTER 155: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
Purpose
   
155.001   Purpose of code; exemption
   
155.002   Title
   
155.003   Findings and statement of purpose
Rules and Definitions
   
155.015   Rules of construction
   
155.016   Definitions
Permit, Fee, Inspection and Indemnification
   
155.030   Permits required
   
155.031   Insurance
   
155.032   Federal or state licenses
   
155.033   Permission from property owners to install any signs
   
155.034   Application for permit to install a sign
   
155.035   Permit issuance
   
155.036   Effect of issuance
   
155.037   Sign and billboard permit fees
   
155.038   Sign permit appeals
   
155.039   Inspections
Regulations and Limitations of Billboard Signs
   
155.050   General
   
155.051   Separation
   
155.052   Existing signs
   
155.053   Liability insurance
   
155.054   Maintenance agreement
   
155.055   Obstructions to traffic
   
155.056   Minimum clearance
Prohibited Signs
   
155.070   General
   
155.071   Animated and intensely lighted signs
   
155.072   Signs on public property
   
155.073   Freestanding billboard signs; materials
Exemptions
   
155.085   Exempt signs
Removal and Disposition of Signs
   
155.100   Maintenance and repair
   
155.101   Abandoned signs
   
155.102   Dangerous or defective signs
   
155.103   Removal of signs by the Administrator
   
155.104   Disposal of signs; fees
Boards and Administration
   
155.115   Board of Appeals
   
155.116   Code Administrator
Hearing
   
155.130   General
   
155.131   Hearing minutes and decision
   
155.132   County Board of Review of Board decisions
 
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Building Codes for signs
PURPOSE
§ 155.001 PURPOSE OF CODE; EXEMPTION.
   As per 55 ILCS 5, agricultural purposes are exempt from this chapter; while
the associated permit shall still be required, no fee shall be applied.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Building construction, alteration and maintenance, see 55 ILCS 5/5-1063
   Authority to regulate and restrict location and use structures, see 55 ILCS
5/5-12001
§ 155.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Sign and Billboard Ordinance” of Jersey
County, Illinois, and may be so cited and pleaded and shall be referred to
herein as the “chapter”.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.003 FINDINGS AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The sign and billboard chapter regulates signs to be placed along the
roadside of any highway or county road and residential, business office and
industrial development signs contained in the unincorporated areas of the
county.
   (B)   The County Board finds:
      (1)   Signs should be regulated in order to protect public investment, to
promote the recreational value of public travel, to preserve natural beauty and
to promote the reasonable orderly and effective display of signs; that the use
and display of signs in a legitimate use of private property and is an integral
part of the business and marketing functions of local economy and serves to
promote and protect private investments in commerce and industry and that the
regulatory standards set forth in this chapter are consistent with customary
use in this county and will properly carry out the purposes of this chapter,
more severe restrictions being inconsistent with customary use and ineffective
to accomplish the purposes of this chapter;
      (2)   Signs visible from motor vehicles being driven upon roads in the
county have a visual impact upon the drivers of those vehicles;
      (3)   Easily read and well located signs can materially assist motorists
and others in getting to their desired destination safely and efficiently;
      (4)   Signs which are unregulated as to size, location and appearance can
distract motorists, interfere with early identification of traffic control
devices, and hinder the smooth and safe movement of traffic; and
      (5)   Lack of regulation of size, location and appearance of signs can
cause escalation in the size of signs erected by competing businesses.
   (C)   This chapter authorizes the use of signs visible from public right-of-
way provided the signs are:
      (1)   Designed, constructed, installed and maintained in such a manner
that they do not endanger public safety or traffic safety;
      (2)   Legible, readable and visible in the circumstances in which they
are used; and
      (3)   Not violative of the reasonable rights of other advertisers whose
messages are displayed.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
§ 155.015 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules and definitions.
   (A)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
   (B)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
tense includes the present.
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory, while the word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   Terms connoting a particular gender shall include each and every
gender.
   (E)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
hereof; and any word appearing in parenthesis between a word and its definition
shall be construed in the same sense as that word.
   (F)   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot; if a
fraction is one-half foot or more, the integral foot next above shall be taken.
   (G)   All words and terms not defined herein shall be construed in their
generally accepted meanings.
   (H)   All provisions of this chapter imposing duties upon the county, its
officers or agents are directory, unless the context clearly requires the
provision to be construed as mandatory.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGNS. A sign which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any
person, advertises a bona fide existing business, lesser, owner, product or
activity product or product available. ABANDONED SIGNS includes any structure
which no long supports the sign for which it was designed. If renewal fees are
not paid annually, the sign will be considered abandoned.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The County Code Officer or his or her designated
representative.
   ADVERTISING MESSAGE. The copy on a sign describing products or services
being offered to the public or to one or more limited segments thereof.
   AGRICULTURE PURPOSES. A property or structure utilized for the science or
art of cultivating soil, harvesting crops, and raising livestock.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of motion. For
purposes of this code, this term does not refer to flashing, changing or
indexing, all of which are separately defined.
   AREA OF SIGN. Copy area including borders which for all intent are to be
made visible to the public.
   AUTOMATIC CHANGING SIGN OR ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER. An
electronically activated changeable sign whose variable message capability can
be electronically programmed.
   AWNING. Any structure made of cloth or other non-rigid material attached to
and projecting from a building, including structures which are fixed or so
erected as to permit their being raised or retracted to a position against the
building when not in use.
   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material which is mounted
to a pole or building by permanent frame at one or more edges.
   BACKGROUND AREA. The entire area of a sign on which copy could be placed, as
opposed to the “copy area”, when referred to in connection with facia or wall
signs.
   BILLBOARD.
      (1)   A panel for the display of advertisements in public places, such as
alongside highways or on the sides of buildings.
      (2)   The advertisement or message posted on such a panel.
      (3)   BILLBOARDS are classified as large signs, generally greater than 60
square feet.
      (4)   In addition, BILLBOARDS are typically raised at least ten feet
above the ground as to draw attention by passersby.
   BOARD. The County Board of the County of Jersey, Illinois.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The County Board of Appeals (hereinafter referred to as
the “Board”) has been appointed by the County Board to review decisions of the
County Code Administrator, to grant variances from the requirements of this
chapter and to advise the Administrator.
   BUILDING. A structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter or roofed
enclosure for persons, animals or property which is permanently affixed to the
land. The term BUILDING is constructed under this chapter as if preceded by the
work “permanent” and as if followed by the words “or parts thereof”.
   BUILDING MARKER, PLAQUE. A sign indicating the name of a building, date and/
or cornerstone with incidental information about its construction, which sign
is cut into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material,
which is affixed to the building.
   CANDIDATE. Any individual actively seeking elected political office,
regardless of whether his or her name appears on the ballet.
   CANOPY OR MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to or hung from a marquee or
canopy or other covered structure projecting from and supported by a building
and extending beyond the building wall, building line or public right-of-way
line.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN, MANUAL. A sign on which copy is changed manually in
the field, i.e., reader boards with changeable pictorial panels.
   CHANGING SIGN, AUTOMATIC. A sign such as an electronically or electrically
controlled public service time, temperature and date sign, message center or
reader board where different copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank.
   CLOSED SIGN. A display sign in which the entire area is solid or tightly
enclosed or covered.
   COPY AREA. The area in square feet of the smallest geometric figure which
describes the area enclosed by the actual copy of a sign. For facia or wall
signs, the COPY AREA LIMITS refer to the message, not to the illuminated
background, the entire area within a single continuous perimeter composed of
squares or rectangles which enclose the extreme limits of the advertising
message, announcement or decoration.
   COPY, PERMANENT AND TEMPORARY. The wording of a sign surface either in
permanent or removal letter form.
   COUNTY. County of Jersey, Illinois
   COUNTY CLERK. The County Clerk of the County of Jersey, Illinois.
   DETACHED SIGN. See GROUND SIGN.
   DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign designed to provide artificial light
either through exposed lighting on the sign face or through transparent or
translucent material from a light source within the sign.
   DOUBLE FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces, back to back.
   ELECTION. The submission of all questions of public policy, propositions and
all measures submitted to popular vote, and include primary elections.
   ELECTION SIGN. Any sign indicating support of, or opposition to, any issue
or candidate in any regular, general or special election.
   ELECTRICAL SIGN. Any sign containing electrical wiring which is attached or
intended to be attached to an electrical energy source.
   EMBELLISHMENT. Letters, figures, characters or representations in cutouts or
irregular forms, or similar ornaments attached to or superimposed upon the
sign.
   EMBELLISHMENT, DECORATIVE ONLY. A purely decorative embellishment on a
freestanding sign.
   ERECTED. Attached, altered, built, constructed, reconstructed, enlarged or
moved, and shall include the painting of wall signs, but does not include copy
changes on any sign.
   EXEMPT SIGNS. Sign exempted from normal permanent requirements.
   FACE OF SIGN. The entire area of sign on which copy could be placed,
including borders.
   FACELIFT. The remodeling of a building’s frontage which is visible from a
public right-of-way so that the building material, door frames, window frames
and signs are designed in harmony with each other.
   FIELD FABRICATED SIGN. An electrical sign of such magnitude that it cannot
be completely constructed in the factory.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation or an externally mounted intermittent light source.
   FREESTANDING SIGNS. See GROUND SIGNS.
   FREEWAY or CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A highway in respect to which the
owners of abutting lands have no right or easement of access to or from their
abutting land, or in respect of which such owners have only limited or
restricted right or easement of access and which is declared to be a FREEWAY or
CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY.
   FREEWAY-ORIENTED SIGN (CONTROLLED ACCESS HIGHWAY SIGN). Any sign identifying
premises where food, lodging or places of business are located that engage in
supplying goods and services essential to normal operation of motor vehicles,
and where such businesses are directly dependent upon the adjacent freeway for
business.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property line of any one premises parallel to
and along each public right-of-way it borders.
   GENERAL ELECTION. A regular election for the choice of a national, state,
judicial, district, county officer or township official.
   GROUND LEVEL. Street grade.
   GROUND SIGN. A sign erected on a freestanding frame, mast or pole and not
attached to any building, A sign supported by uprights or braces in or upon the
ground surface.
   HEIGHT OF SIGN. The vertical distance measured from the adjacent street
grade or upper surface of the nearest street curb other than an elevated
roadway which permits the greatest height to the highest point of said sign.
   HEREAFTER. After the time this chapter becomes effective.
   HERETOFORE. Before the time this chapter becomes effective.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign on the premises which is limited to the name,
address and number of a building, institution or person on the premises, and to
the activity carried on in the building or institution, or the occupancy of the
person provided that this type of sign is permitted only if the use of the
premises is legal both in substance and at that location.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. See UNLAWFUL SIGN.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which emanates light either by means of exposed
tubing or lamps on its surface, or by means of illumination transmitted through
the sign faces.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign pertaining to goods, products, services or
facilities which are available on the premises where the sign is located.
   INDEXING. Turning and stopping action of the triangular vertical sections of
a multi-prism sign designed to show three messages in the same area.
   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which reflects light from a source
intentionally directed upon it, for example, by means of floodlights, gooseneck
reflectors or externally mounted fluorescent light fixtures.
   INTERIOR PROPERTY LINE. Property lines other than those fronting on a
street, road or highway.
   ISSUE. Any matter of public interest, question of public opinion,
proposition or any other measure submitted to popular vote.
   LOT.
      (1)   A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet the minimum
requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other
open space.
      (2)   Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street, or on an
approved private street, and may consist of:
         (a)   A single lot of record;
         (b)   A portion of a lot of record;
         (c)   A combination of complete lots of record, or of portions of lots
of record; and
         (d)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds.
   MAINTAIN. To permit a sign, structure or any part or condition of any of
them to continue.
   MARQUEE (CANOPY). A permanent roof-like shelter extending from part or all
of the building face over a public right-of-way and constructed of some durable
material such as metal, glass or plastic.
   MARQUEE SIGN (CANOPY SIGN). Any sign attached to or hung from a marquee or
canopy or other covered structure projecting from and supported by a building
and extending beyond the building wall, building line or public right-of-way
line.
   MESSAGE. The wording or copy on a sign.
   NONELECTRICAL SIGN. Any sign that does not contain electrical wiring or is
not attached or intended to be attached to an electrical energy source.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN, LEGAL. Any advertising structure or sign which was
lawfully erected and maintained prior to such time as it became subject to this
chapter and any amendments thereto, and which at the time it becomes subject to
this chapter and fails to conform to all applicable regulations and
restrictions of this chapter, or a nonconforming sign for which a special
permit has been issued.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN (OFF-SITE SIGNS). A sign that advertises goods, products,
services or facilities or directs persons to a different location from where
the sign is installed.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign identifying or advertising a business, person,
activity, goods, products or services located on the premises where the sign is
installed and maintained.
   OPEN SIGN. A display sign in which at least 50% of the enclosed area is
uncovered, or open to the transmission of wind.
   OWNER. A person recorded as such on official records and including duly
authorized agent or notary, a purchaser, devisee, judiciary; any person having
a vested or contingent interest in the property in question.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, association, firm, partnership or other
legal entity of any description, single or plural.
   POLE SIGN. See GROUND SIGN.
   PREMISES. An area of land with its appurtenances and buildings which,
because of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of
real estate.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Building frontage at least 30 feet wide which is accessible
unobstructed for the Fire Department.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The perpendicular distance across a public street
measured from property line to property line. When property lines on opposite
sides of the public street are not parallel, the PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH
shall be determined by the governing body.
   PUBLIC SERVICE INFORMATION SIGNS. Any sign intended primarily to promote
items of general interest to the community such as time, temperature and date,
atmospheric conditions, news or traffic control and the like.
   REGULAR ELECTION. An election, either general or municipal, regularly
occurring at fixed interval.
   ROOF LINE. The top edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever
forms the top line of the building silhouette.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected upon, against or directly above a roof or on top
of or above the parapet of a building.
   ROTATING SIGN. Any sign or portion of a sign which moves in a revolving or
similar manner, but not including multi-prism indexing signs.
   SEASONAL OR HOLIDAY SIGNS. Signs such as Christmas decorations, those used
for a historic holiday and installed for a limited period of time.
   SIGN. Any identification, description, illustration or device illuminated or
non-illuminated and with or without printing or writing, which is visible from
any public place and which directs or is constructed to direct attention to a
business, product, service, place, activity, person, organization, institution
or solicitation, including any permanently installed or situated merchandise, a
symbol of merchandise, logo or display with the exception of window displays;
or any emblem, painting, banner, pennant, placard or temporary sign designed to
advertise, identify or convey information with respect to any business,
product, service, place, activity, person, institution or solicitation, with
the exception of national, state, county, municipal and religious flags. The
required removal of any SIGN shall be understood to include all associated sign
structures and sign support structures unless exempted from the removal
requirement.
   SIGN AREA (AREA OF SIGN). The area of the largest faces of the sign with a
perimeter which forms the outside shape including any frame that forms an
integral part of the display, but excluding the necessary supports or uprights
on which the sign may be placed. If the sign consists of more than one section
or module, all areas will be totaled and both faces of double faced signs will
be included in the sign area.
   SIGN LEGEND. See COPY.
   SIGN STICKER. A sticker affixed either to the face or the channel of a sign
visible from the street denoting the name of the manufacturer or designating
the sign servicing company for purpose of identification by county officials.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, has supported or is capable of
supporting a sign including decorative cover.
   SPECIAL ELECTION. An election, either general or municipal, not regularly
recurring at fixed intervals, irrespective of whether it is held at the same
time and place and by the same election officers as a regular election.
   SPECIAL PURPOSE SIGN. Any sign other than a business, non-accessory
identification sign, including, but not limited to, traffic signs.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A privately owned lane, road or street which affords the
means of access to adjacent lots.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A public highway, road or thoroughfare which affords the
principal means of access to adjacent lots, measured from property line to
property line.
   SWINGING SIGN. A sign installed on an arm or spar that is not, in addition,
permanently fastened to an adjacent wall or upright pole.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which is not permanently affixed and includes all
devices such as banners, pennants, flags (not including national, state,
county, municipal or religious flags), searchlights, twirling or sandwich type
signs, sidewalk or curb signs and balloons or other air or gas filled figures.
   TREASURER. The County Treasurer of the County of Jersey, Illinois.
   UNLAWFUL SIGN.
      (1)   A sign which contravenes this chapter or any other law or which the
County Code Administrator declares to be unlawful because it becomes dangerous
to public safety by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or
abandonment or a nonconforming sign for which a permit required under a
previous code was not obtained.
      (2)   The terms UNLAWFUL and ILLEGAL shall have the same meaning at all
times in all situations.
   USE. The purpose for which a building, lot, sign or other structure is
arranged, intended, designed, occupied or maintained.
   YARD. The space between the lot line and the building line on the same lot
with a principal building or group of buildings, which is unoccupied and
unobstructed from it’s lowest level upward, except as otherwise permitted in
this chapter, and which extends along a lot or parcel line and at right angles
thereto to a depth or width determined by the nearest point of the principal
building.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
PERMIT, FEE, INSPECTION AND INDEMNIFICATION
§ 155.030 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application of permit requirement.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful
for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, move or convert any sign in the
county, or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a sign permit for
each such sign from the Code Administrator as required by this chapter.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed to require any permit for:
         (a)   The repainting, cleaning and other normal maintenance or repair
of a sign or sign structure for which a permit has previously been issued, so
long as the sign or sign structure is not modified in any way; or
         (b)   Signs which have permits and which conform to the requirements
of this chapter on the date of its adoption unless and until the sign is
altered or relocated, at which time a permit is required.
   (B)   Duration of permit. Every sign permit issued by the Administrator
shall become null and void if work installation is not commenced within 120
days from the date of such permit. If work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned for 120 days any time after the work is commenced, a new
permit shall be first obtained to do so and the fee will be one-half the amount
required for a new permit for such work provided that no changes have been made
in the original plans. Such permit may not be unreasonably withheld, providing
that proper application and payment of permit fees is complied with.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.031 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Every billboard applicant for such registration shall, before such
registration, file with the county a satisfactory certificate of insurance
against any form of liability to a minimum of $25,000 for property damage and
$300,000 for personal injury, or shall be responsible through an agent or
subcontractor covered by insurance in said amounts.
   (B)   The insurance shall be maintained in full force and effect during the
term of the registration and said insurance policy or certificate shall provide
that the county be notified of any cancellation of the insurance ten days prior
to the date of cancellation.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.032 FEDERAL OR STATE LICENSES.
   Federal or state licenses as applicable, any sign company seeking to erect,
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, maintain, convert or
manufacture any sign shall demonstrate and register with the county a statement
that they have all of the necessary licenses from all other governmental
agencies applicable, or shall be represented by a duly licensed agent or
subcontractor having such licenses.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.033 PERMISSION FROM PROPERTY OWNERS TO INSTALL ANY SIGNS.
   No person shall erect, construct or maintain any sign upon any property or
building without the consent of the owner or person entitled to possession of
the property or building, if any, or their authorized representatives.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.034 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO INSTALL A SIGN.
   Application for a permit shall be made to the County Code Administrator upon
a form provided by the Administrator and shall be accompanied by such
information as may be required to assure compliance with all appropriate laws
and regulations of the county including:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant (sign contractor)
and property owner(s) of the property upon which the sign is to be affixed. No
permit application shall be considered complete without signatures of the
property owner(s), as well as the applicant, if different. The permit
application shall also include the date on which the sign is to be erected or
displayed;
   (B)   A site plan showing the accurate placement of existing, as well as
proposed signage on the subject highway;
   (C)   One blueprint of the plans specifications of the sign to be erected or
affixed and the method of construction and attachment to a building or
placement in the ground. Such plans and specifications shall include details of
dimensions, materials and weight; and
   (D)   Applicant must show proof of liability insurance.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.035 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The Administrator shall issue a permit for the erection, alteration or
relocation of a sign within the county when an application therefor has been
properly made and the sign described therein complies with all appropriate laws
and regulations of the county. The Administrator may, in writing, suspend or
revoke a permit issued under provisions of this subchapter whenever the permit
is issued by mistake or on the basis of a misstatement of fact or fraud. Any
permit issued shall become invalid if the authorized work is not started within
six months of the permit issue date.
(Ord 17-001, passed 1-12-2012; Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.036 EFFECT OF ISSUANCE.
   No permit for a sign issued hereunder shall be deemed to constitute
permission or authorization to maintain an unlawful sign, nor shall any permit
issued hereunder constitute a defense in an action to abate all unlawful signs.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012; Ord. 17-001, passed 1-12-2012)
§ 155.037 SIGN AND BILLBOARD PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Application for permits shall be filed with the County Code
Administrator, together with a permit fee which shall be based on the
reasonable cost of the sign and supporting structure which includes cost of
material and labor in accordance with the fee schedule of division (B) below.
      (2)   If the Administrator determines that the applicant’s estimate of
cost is unreasonable, the Administrator may estimate the cost for purposes of
establishing the fee. Permit for neon outline lighting or skeleton lighting
will be based on estimated value of job.
      (3)   If any sign is hereafter erected, placed, installed or otherwise
established on any property prior to obtaining a permit as required by this
section, the fees specified in division (B) below shall be doubled. Payment of
such fee shall not relieve any person from complying with other provisions of
the this chapter or from penalties prescribed therein.
   (B)   Fee schedule: billboards.
 
Initial sign application fee for permit to erect roadside signage $800
Annual renewal permit fee for single-side sign                    $125
Annual renewal permit fee for double-side sign                    $250
 
   (C)   Fee schedule: residential, business office and industrial development
signs.
 
For signs up to 30 square feet per sign area       $30
For each square foot thereafter for each sign area $0.30
 
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012; Ord. revised 2-21-2020; Ord. revised 10-15-2021)
§ 155.038 SIGN PERMIT APPEALS.
   An appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board of Review from the
Administrator’s denial or revocation of a sign permit.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.039 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections. All sign work requiring a permit shall be subject to
inspection by the Administrator.
   (B)   Signs declared unlawful. The Administrator may declare any sign
unlawful if it violates this chapter or any other law or if it endangers public
safety by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or abandonment. Any
such declaration shall state in writing the reasons of the Administrator for
stating that the sign is unlawful.
   (C)   Unlawful sign.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to own, keep, display or maintain a sign which
is declared to be unlawful.
      (2)   The Administrator may declare any such sign to be unlawful and such
declaration shall state in writing the reason or reasons why such sign and the
keeping, owning, maintenance, construction and display or operation thereof, is
unlawful under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
155.999
REGULATIONS AND LIMITATIONS OF BILLBOARD SIGNS
§ 155.050 GENERAL.
   The language of this subchapter shall apply to billboards and off-premises
signs.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.051 SEPARATION.
   Limitations on distance, set-off and maintenance are as follows: separation
of said signs must be no less than 1,200 feet from another permitted structure.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.052 EXISTING SIGNS.
   Existing signs that are relocated to another site shall not be grandfathered
in. The applicant must apply for new permits and follow codes and fees.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.053 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The applicant must show proof of liability insurance.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.054 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   The maintenance agreement is to be signed at time of application for permit.
The maintenance agreement is to include a fine not to exceed $1,000 if
structure is not removed within 60 days upon conclusion of signs use.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.055 OBSTRUCTIONS TO TRAFFIC.
   No freestanding or ground sign shall be erected so as to obstruct free
access to or egress from any building.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.056 MINIMUM CLEARANCE.
   Where a freestanding or ground sign projects over a vehicular traffic area,
such as a private street, driveway or parking lot, the minimum clearance
between the bottom of the sign and the ground shall be 14 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
PROHIBITED SIGNS
§ 155.070 GENERAL.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the following types of signs
are expressly prohibited in all districts.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.071 ANIMATED AND INTENSELY LIGHTED SIGNS.
   All light illuminating said sign shall not interfere with vehicle or air
traffic. If the Administrator receives reports that the light created by the
sign obstructs the vision of traffic, the Administrator will contact company to
address said issue.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.072 SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No sign shall be permitted which is placed on any curb, sidewalk, post,
pole, electrolier, hydrant, bridge, tree or other surface located on public
property or over or across any street or public thoroughfare except as may
otherwise expressly be authorized by this chapter or by written agreement
approved by the County Board, after determining that said sign is consistent
with the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.073 FREESTANDING BILLBOARD SIGNS; MATERIALS.
   All freestanding sign structures or poles shall be self-supporting
structures erected on and permanently attached to concrete foundations. Such
structures or poles shall be fabricated only from painted steel or such other
materials as may be approved by the adopted ICC Code in effect. Detailed
drawings of all pole or pylon sign foundations will accompany sign permit
applications.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012) Penalty, see §
155.999
EXEMPTIONS
§ 155.085 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following operations shall not be considered as requiring the issuance
of a sign permit, but any sign thus created must be in conformance with all
other building, structural and electrical laws and regulations of the state:
   (A)   Agricultural property signage. Signs erected where agricultural uses
are provided, which must relate to the sale of farm products grown, bred or
produced on the premises of the agricultural nature of the property;
   (B)   Construction signs. One construction sign per construction project not
exceeding 32 square feet in sign area in residential districts or 64 square
feet in commercial or industrial districts, provided that such signs shall be
erected no more than 30 days prior to the beginning of construction for which a
valid building permit has been issued, shall be confined to the site of
construction and shall be removed 30 days after completion of construction and
prior to occupancy;
   (C)   Direction or instructional signs. Signs which provide direction or
instruction to which they pertain and do not in any way advertise the sale of
merchandise or services or any business and do not exceed four square feet in
area, such as signs identifying rest rooms, public telephones, walkways or
signs providing direction such as parking lot entrance and exit signs and those
of similar nature. Such signs may identify the establishment to which the
directions or instructions thereon are pertinent;
   (D)   Flags. The flags, emblems or insignia of any nation or political
subdivision or corporate flag;
   (E)   Governmental signs. Governmental signs for control of traffic and
other regulatory purposes, street signs, danger, signs, railroad crossing sign
and signs of public service companies indicating danger and aids to service
safety which are erected by or on the order of a public officer in the
performance of his or her public duty;
   (F)   Holiday decorations. Signs of a primarily decorative nature, clearly
incidental and customary and commonly associated with any national, local or
religious holiday;
   (G)   House numbers. House numbers not exceeding two square feet in area for
each dwelling unit or mobile home;
   (H)   Non-electrical interior signs. Non-electrical signs located within the
interior of any building or stadium, or within an enclosed lobby or court of
any building, and non-electrical signs for and located within the inner or
outer lobby, court or entrance of any theater, that are not visible from the
public right-of-way. This does not, however, exempt such non-electrical signs
from the structural or material specifications as set out in this chapter;
   (I)   Memorial signs. Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date
of erection when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part of the
building or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible material;
   (J)   Notice bulletin boards. Notice bulletin boards not over 32 square feet
in area for medical, public, charitable or religious institutions where the
same are located on the premises of said institution;
   (K)   No trespassing or no dumping signs. No trespassing or no dumping
signs;
   (L)   Occupant signs, nameplates. One nameplate for each dwelling unit or
mobile home not to exceed two square feet in area indicating the name of the
occupant, location or identification of a home professional office, provided
the use of the premises is legal both in substance and at that location;
   (M)   Wall signs, fence signs. In business and manufacturing zones, a sign
painted on the surface of a fence or approved building wall or any non-
illuminated wall sign on a building or structure which is not more than 20
square feet in sign area;
   (N)   Public notices. Official notices posted by public officers or
employees in the performance of their duties;
   (O)   Public signs. Signs required or specifically authorized for a public
purpose by any law, statute or ordinance, which may be of any type, number,
area, height above grade, location, illumination or animation required by the
law, statute or ordinance under which the signs are erected;
   (P)   Real estate signs. Real estate signs, on- or off-premises, not
directly illuminated, and is removed within ten days after the closing date of
a sales contract of the effective date of a lease;
   (Q)   Signs in the display window. Signs in the display window of a business
use which are incorporated with a display of merchandise or a display relating
to services offered which comply with division (O) above;
   (R)   Symbols of insignia. Religious symbols, commemorative plaques of
recognized historical agencies, or identification emblems of religious orders
or historical agencies, provided that no such symbol, plaque or identification
emblem, shall exceed four square feet in area, and provided further that all
such symbols, plaques and identification emblems shall be placed flat against a
building;
   (S)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs in an area pertaining to personal
events, drives or events of civic, philanthropic, educational or religious
organizations, provided that said signs are posted only during said drive or no
more than 30 days before said event and are removed no more than 15 days after
an event;
   (T)   Warning signs. Signs warning the public of the existence of danger,
but containing no advertising material, of a size as may be necessary to be
removed upon subsidence of danger; and
   (U)   Neighborhood identification signs. In any zone, a sign, masonry wall,
landscaping and other similar materials or features may be combined to form a
display for neighborhood or tract identification, provided that the legend of
such sign or display shall consist only of the neighborhood or tract name.
(Ord 17-001, passed 1-12-2012; Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF SIGNS
§ 155.100 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   Every sign including, but not limited to, those signs for which permits or
for which no permits or permit fees are required, shall be maintained in a
safe, presentable and good structural material condition at all times,
including the replacement of defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning
and other acts required for the maintenance of said sign. The Administrator
shall require compliance with all standards of this chapter and any other
applicable laws. If the sign is not made to comply with adequate safety
standards, the Administrator shall require its removal in accordance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.101 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any sign which is located on
property which becomes vacant and unoccupied for a period of 12 months or more,
or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no longer applies,
shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to a
business temporarily suspended because of a change of ownership or management
of such business shall not be deemed abandoned unless the property remains
vacant for a period of six months or more. An abandoned sign is prohibited and
shall be removed by the owner of the sign or the premises.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.102 DANGEROUS OR DEFECTIVE SIGNS.
   No person shall maintain or permit to be maintained on any premises owned or
controlled by him or her any sign which is in a dangerous or defective
condition. Any such sign shall be removed or repaired by the owner of the sign
or owner of the premises.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.103 REMOVAL OF SIGNS BY THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Administrator shall cause to be removed any sign known by him or
her to be unlawfully placed on any public right-of-way or on any utility
easement within the county. Any such unlawfully placed signs may be removed by
the Administrator without notice to the owner thereof. The Administrator may
notice the owner, if known, that his or her sign has been removed and they may
redeem it from the Administrator within seven days.
   (B)   The Administrator shall cause to be removed any sign believed by him
or her to endanger the public safety. Such signs may be removed by the
Administrator without notice to the owner thereof, if known, in an emergency
and shall be removed by the Administrator in any case within 24 hours after the
owner thereof, if known, has been notified by the Administrator.
   (C)   The Administrator shall cause to be removed an abandoned sign, a sign
which is materially, electrically or structurally defective, a sign for which
no permit has been issued, a sign which is not permitted by §§
155.050 through
155.056, §§
155.070 through
155.073, and §§
155.100 through
155.102, or a sign which otherwise has been declared to be unlawful. The
Administrator shall prepare a notice to the owner, if known, which shall
describe the sign and specify the violation or lack of compliance involved and
which shall state that if the sign is not removed or the violation is not
corrected within 14 days, the sign shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of this section. During the time of removal, other new signs placed
on the premises which are similarly in violation may be removed without advance
notice.
   (D)   The owner of any unlawfully placed or otherwise unlawful sign that has
been removed by the Administrator may redeem such sign from the Administrator
upon payment of the cost to the county of causing such sign to be removed. Such
costs of removal for all such signs shall not be less than $25. Costs of any
sign removal shall be recovered by the county as provided by §
155.104.
   (E)   All notices mailed by the Administrator shall be sent by certified
mail except those written notices which confirm oral notices and these may be
sent by regular mail as may other notices so specified. Any time periods
provided in this subchapter shall be deemed to commence on the date of the
receipt of notice, whether written or oral.
   (F)   In the direction of the Administrator and except as otherwise provided
herein, notices may also be orally provided to, mailed to or delivered to the
owner of the property on which the sign is located as shown on the last
equalized general real estate tax assessment roll and/or the occupant of the
property, if known.
   (G)   Any person having an interest in a sign or property associated
therewith may appeal the determination of the Administrator ordering removal of
the sign or compliance by filing a written notice of appeal with a written
statement of the reasons in support of his or her position with the Appeals
Board of Review within 20 days after the date of receipt of a notice, whether
written or oral, for removal of the sign.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.104 DISPOSAL OF SIGNS; FEES.
   (A)   Any sign removed pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may be
disposed of in any manner deemed appropriate by the county. The cost to the
county for removal of the sign shall be considered a debt owed to the county by
the owner of the sign and/or the owner of the property, and may be recovered in
an appropriate court action by the county or by placement of a lien upon the
property as hereinafter provided. The cost of removal shall include any and all
incidental expenses incurred by the county in connection with the sign’s
removal; costs may be recovered by the county in the manner provided.
   (B)   The notice given by the Administrator shall state the remedial action
required to be taken; if such action is not taken within the time limits set
forth in this chapter, the cost of correcting the unlawful statute of the sign
may be charged against the property on which the sign is located, together with
any additional 5% for inspection and incidental costs and an additional 10%
penalty for the cost of collection, and collected in the same manner as real
estate taxes against the property.
   (C)   In the event that the owner of the premises, or person entitled to
possession thereof, or the owner of the sign, shall fail, neglect or refuse to
comply with the notice to remove, repair, rehabilitate or demolish the sign
declared to be unlawful, as appropriate, the owner of the sign, the owner of
the premises upon which the sign is located, and the permit entitled to
possession thereof (if other than the owner of the premises), or all or any of
them, may be prosecuted for violation(s) of this chapter. The Administrator may
remove the sign declared to be unlawful.
   (D)   (1)   If it shall be necessary for the Administrator to remove a sign
pursuant to the provisions hereof, bids shall be taken when the estimated costs
of removal or demolition exceed $1,500.
      (2)   When completed, the Administrator shall certify to the State’s
Attorney the legal description of the property upon which the work was done,
together with the name of the owner thereof, as shown by the tax rolls of the
county, together with a statement of work performed, the date of performance
and the cost thereof.
   (E)   (1)   Upon receipt of such statement, the State’s Attorney shall mail
a notice to the owner of said premises as shown by the tax rolls at the address
shown upon the tax rolls by certified mail, postage prepaid, notifying such of
the costs thereof (as certified by the Administrator), together with 5% for the
inspection and the other incidental costs in connection therewith.
      (2)   Such notice shall state that if said amount is not paid within 30
days following the mailing of such notice, the Director of Finance will place a
lien upon said owner.
   (F)   If the State’s Attorney’s office shall not receive payment within a
period of 30 days following the mailing of such notice, the Director of Finance
will place a lien upon said property.
   (G)   Each such lien against each lot or tract of land assessed, until paid,
and shall have priority over all other subsequent liens except general and
special taxes.
   (H)   For purposes of this subchapter, the owner of property upon which a
sign is located shall be presumed to be the owner of all signs thereon, unless
the contrary shall appear from facts brought to the attention of the
Administrator.
   (I)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions cited above in this subchapter,
in cases of emergency, the Administrator may cause to be repaired or removed
summarily and without notice any unlawful sign which creates an immediate
hazard to the public through improper construction, or which creates a hazard
by obstructing view at intersections of either motorist or pedestrian or any
sign which has become an immediate hazard to the public.
      (2)   Summary removal or repair provided for herein shall not relieve the
owner of the sign or the property on which it is located from liability to the
county for the costs provided for in this section.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.115 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Appeals Board of Review (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) has
been appointed by the County Board Chairperson to review decisions of the
Administrator, to grant variances from the requirements of this chapter, to
make suggestions for the amendment of this chapter and to advise the
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.116 CODE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Administrator shall be the County Code Administrator and have authority
to oversee the permit and erection of signs.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
HEARING
§ 155.130 GENERAL.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision made with respect to this chapter
by the County Code Administrator may appeal to the Board of Appeals. Such
appeal shall be taken within 30 days of the receipt of the decision being
appealed by filing with the County Code Administrator a petition for appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The County Code Administrator shall transmit to
the Board of Appeals the petition for appeal and all other papers
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Appeals shall hear a timely-filed petition for
appeal within 60 days of filing said petition. At the hearing, any party may
appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
      (2)   The Board may affirm or reverse, wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, requirement, decision or determination as, in its opinion, ought to
be made in the premises.
   (C)   All hearings of the Board shall be open to the public, and those in
attendance shall be afforded an opportunity, the length and conditions of which
shall be prescribed by the Board, to address the Board on issues to be
determined. The appellant and the Administrator shall be afforded an
opportunity to appeal on any matter at issue. Any party or person may be
represented by another at the hearing.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.131 HEARING MINUTES AND DECISION.
   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and shall cause to be kept a
tape recorded record of the hearing on any appeal together with its findings of
fact in support of that decision, all of which shall be open to the public
inspection. Copies of the Board’s decisions on appeals and petitions for
variances shall be mailed or delivered to the applicant, to the Administrator
and to the persons entitled to notice of hearings. The tape recorded record may
be discarded by the Board one year after the hearing.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.132 COUNTY BOARD OF REVIEW OF BOARD DECISIONS.
   Review or appeal of any Board decision may be taken by any interested person
to the County Board.
   (A)   The petition for review must be served on the County Board within 15
days of the oral notice or mailing or delivery of the Board’s decision to the
appellant;
   (B)   The record transmitted by the Board shall include the tape recorded
record of the hearing in its un-transcribed form.
   (C)   An appeal of the decision of the County Board shall be made to the
Circuit Court of the county.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The County Code Administrator, upon finding that any provision of this
chapter or any condition or permit issued under this chapter is being violated,
is hereby authorized to institute legal proceedings to enjoin violations.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
continues or occurs.
(Ord 17-001, passed 1-12-2012; Ord. passed 3-13-2012)
APPENDIX A: BUILDING CODE FOR SIGNS IDENTIFICATION
Every sign regulated under the county billboard and sign chapter hereafter
erected, constructed or maintained, for which a permit is required shall be
plainly marked with the name of the person, firm or corporation erecting and
maintaining such sign and shall have affixed on the front thereof the permit
number tag issued for said sign or other method of identification approved by
the County Code Administrator.
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
General: Signs shall be designed and constructed to comply with the provisions
of the International Building Code (IBC) in determining use of materials, loads
and stresses.
Permits, Drawings and Specifications: Where a permit is required, as provided
in the IBC, construction documents shall be required. These documents shall
show the dimensions, materials and required details of construction, including
loads, stresses and anchors.
Wind Load: Signs shall be designed and constructed to withstand wind pressure
as provided for in the IBC.
Seismic Load: Signs designed to withstand wind pressures shall be considered
capable of withstanding earthquake loads, except as provided for in the IBC.
Working Stresses: For signs regulated under the county billboard and sign
chapter, the allowable working stresses shall conform to the requirements of
the IBC. The working stresses of wire rope and its fastenings shall not exceed
25% of the ultimate strength of the rope or fasteners.
Exceptions:
The allowable working stresses for steel and wood shall be in accordance with
the provisions of the IBC. The working strength of chains, cables, guys or
steel rods shall not exceed one-fifth of the ultimate strength of such chains,
cables, guys or steel.
Attachment: Signs attached to masonry, concrete or steel shall be safely and
securely fastened by means of metal anchors, bolts or approved expansion screws
of sufficient size and anchorage to safely support the loads applied.
ELECTRICAL
Illumination: A sign shall not be illuminated by other than electrical means,
and electrical devices and wiring shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the National Electrical Code (NEC). Any open spark or flame
shall not be used for display purposes unless specifically approved.
Electrical service: Signs that require electrical service shall comply with the
National Electrical Code (NEC).
GROUND SIGNS
Wooden anchors and supports: Where wood anchors or supports are embedded in the
soil, the wood shall be pressure treated with an approved preservative.
WALL SIGNS
Exterior wall mounting details: Wall signs attached to exterior walls of solid
masonry, concrete or stone, shall be safely and securely attached by means of
metal anchors, bolts or expansion screws of not less than 318 inches (8 meters)
in diameter and shall be embedded at five inches (127 mm). Wood blocks shall
not be used for anchorage, except in the case of wall signs attached to
buildings with walls of wood. A wall sign shall not be supported by anchorages
secured to an un-braced parapet wall.
PROJECTING SIGNS
General: Projecting signs shall be constructed entirely of metal or other
noncombustible material and securely attached to a building or structure by
metal supports such as bolts, anchors, supports, chains, guys or steel rods.
Staples or nails shall not be used to secure any projecting sign to any
building or structure. The dead load of projecting signs not parallel to the
building or structure and the load due to wind pressure shall be supported with
chains, guys or steel rods having net cross-sectional dimension of not less
than 318 inches (8 meters) in diameter. Such supports shall be erected or
maintained at an angle of at least 45% (0.78 rad) with the horizontal to resist
the dead load and at angle of 45% (0.78 rad) or more with the face of the sign
to resist the specified wind pressure. If such projecting sign exceeds 30
square feet (2.8 m2) in one facial area, there shall be provided at least two
such supports on each side not more than 8 feet (2,438 mm) apart to resist the
wind pressure.
Attachment of supports: Supports shall be secured to a bolt or expansion screw
that will develop the strength of the supporting chains, guys or steel rods,
with a minimum 518-inch (15.9-mm) bolt or lag screw, by an expansion shield.
Turnbuckles shall be placed in chains, guys or steel rods supporting projecting
signs.
Wall mounting details: Chains, cables, guys or steel rods used to support the
live or dead load of projecting signs are permitted to be fastened to solid
masonry walls with expansion bolts or by machine screws in iron supports, but
such supports shall not be attached to an un-braced parapet wall. Where the
supports must be fastened to walls made of wood, the supporting anchor bolts
must go through the wall and be plated or fastened on the inside in a secure
manner.
Additional loads: Projecting sign structures which will be used to support an
individual on a ladder or other servicing device, whether or not specifically
designed for the servicing device, shall be capable of supporting the
anticipated additional load, but not less than a 100-pound (445 N) concentrated
horizontal load and a 300-pound (1,334 N) concentrated vertical load applied at
the point of assumed or most eccentric loading. The building component to which
the projecting sign is attached shall also be designed to support the
additional loads.
(Ord 17-001, passed 1-12-2012)
CHAPTER 156: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Scope and Purpose
   
156.001   Scope and legal authority
   
156.002   Title
   
156.003   Application/exception of chapter
   
156.004   Intent and purpose
   
156.005   Interpretation
   
156.006   Administration
   
156.007   Instances when plats will not be required
   
156.008   Suitability of land for subdivision development
Definitions
   
156.020   General statement
   
156.021   Definitions
General Regulations
   
156.035   Pre-application conference
   
156.036   Preliminary plat procedures
   
156.037   Submission of application
   
156.038   County Engineer’s review
   
156.039   Illinois Department of Transportation review
   
156.040   Township Road District Highway Commissioner review
   
156.041   Soil and Water Conservation District review
   
156.042   Local Health Department review
   
156.043   911 Coordinator review
   
156.044   Subdivision and Land Use Committee action
   
156.045   Certification of approval
   
156.046   Filing
   
156.047   Rights and privileges
   
156.048   Subdivision near municipality
   
156.049   Preliminary plat requirements
   
156.050   Improvement plan procedures
   
156.051   Improvement plan requirements
   
156.052   Final map
   
156.053   Final plat procedures
   
156.054   Submission of final plat for review
   
156.055   County Engineer review
   
156.056   Subdivision and land use review and action
   
156.057   Soil and Water Conservation District review
   
156.058   Certification of action
   
156.059   Final plat requirements
   
156.060   Minor subdivisions
   
156.061   Recording
   
156.062   Illegal plats
   
156.063   Public improvements
   
156.064   Fees
Minimum Standard of Design and Improvement for Streets
   
156.075   General statement
   
156.076   Best use
   
156.077   Street planning
   
156.078   Continuation of adjoining street system
   
156.079   Marginal access street
   
156.080   Private reserve strips
   
156.081   Street names
   
156.082   Additional right-of-way requirements
   
156.083   Private streets
   
156.084   Private streets: maintained by property owners
   
156.085   Street design standards
   
156.086   Right-of-way width
   
156.087   Street grades
   
156.088   Horizontal curves
   
156.089   Tangents
   
156.090   Intersections
   
156.091   Cul-de-sac streets
   
156.092   Alleys
   
156.093   General standards
   
156.094   Curb and gutter
   
156.095   Sidewalks
   
156.096   Street improvements
   
156.097   Primary highways
   
156.098   Local and marginal streets
   
156.099   Street signs
Minimum Standards of Design and Improvement for Utilities
   
156.110   General statement
   
156.111   Reference monuments
   
156.112   Sewers, individual systems-design
   
156.113   Soil investigations
   
156.114   Lot sizes and density
   
156.115   Design standards
   
156.116   Sewer and water utilities-improvement standards
   
156.117   Sanitary sewers
   
156.118   Water systems
   
156.119   Utilities in floodplain areas
   
156.120   House services
   
156.121   Drainage
   
156.122   Electrical power, telephone and cable antenna television (CATV)
   
156.123   Inspection of public improvements
   
156.124   Performance guarantee or bond
   
156.125   Release
   
156.126   Term
   
156.127   Eligible surety
   
156.128   Provisions for maintenance and operation of private utilities or
facilities
   
156.129   Easements
   
156.130   Blocks
   
156.131   Lots
   
156.132   Public reservations
Variances
   
156.145   Conditions of variation
   
156.146   Variance procedures
Vacations and Adoption
   
156.160   Plat vacation
   
156.161   Submittal documents
   
156.162   Approvals required
   
156.163   County Board review
   
156.164   Vacation recorded
   
156.165   Amendments
   
156.166   Enforcement of chapter
 
   
156.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Preliminary plat application
   
Appendix B: Subdivision and Land Use Committee certification
   
Appendix C: County Board certification
   
Appendix D: Owner’s certification
   
Appendix E: Notary public certification
   
Appendix F: Surveyor’s certification
   
Appendix G: County Clerk certification
   
Appendix H: 911 Coordinator certification
   
Appendix I: County Engineer certification
   
Appendix J: Private road or street certification
   
Appendix K: Final plat certification
   
Appendix L: Form for approval of the County Board
SCOPE AND PURPOSE
§ 156.001 SCOPE AND LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of controlling future development of the county and
for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare of
persons living within the territory governed, the provisions and regulations
hereinafter contained shall govern the subdividing and platting of lands lying
within the area of jurisdiction of the county.
   (B)   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivision of land
contained herein shall apply within the county as permitted by state statutes.
In the event of overlapping jurisdiction within the project area, the extent of
jurisdiction shall be determined and agreed upon between the county and the
municipality or municipalities concerned. Except in the case of re-subdivision,
this chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision
recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds prior to the effective
date of this chapter, this chapter does not intend to repeal, annul or in any
way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or ordinances
except those specifically repealed by, or in conflict with this chapter, or
with restrictive covenants running with the land. Where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon the land than is imposed or required by such existing
provisions of law, ordinance or restrictive covenants, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.002 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known, referred to and cited as the “Land Subdivision
Ordinance of Jersey County, Illinois”.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.003 APPLICATION/EXCEPTION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   From and after the passage of this chapter, no plat of any subdivision
shall be valid nor entitled to record unless and until same has been approved
by the County Board, in accordance with the procedure hereinafter provided, and
no plat of any subdivision shall be approved without compliance with the
standards of design and improvements required as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   The exercise of plat approval power by the County Board is subject to
an exception where a municipality with an adopted subdivision ordinance and
operating under a comprehensive plan, shall approve all subdivision plats
within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits. Until approved by the
corporate authorities, no subdivision plat shall be recorded in the county or
have any validity whatever.
(65 ILCS 5/11-15-1, Approval of Maps and Plats, and 65 ILCS 5/11-12-12)
   (C)   No lot in a subdivision, as defined herein, may be conveyed unless a
final plat of the property has been approved according to the requirements and
provisions of this chapter, and recorded in the office of the County Recorder
of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.004 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is intended for the purposes of coordinated, efficient
and economic development of the county, providing adequate services and
utilities, safe convenient access and a desirable and attractive living
environment through good subdivision design.
   (B)   In achieving these purposes, the county shall utilize development
standards which are directed toward reasonable costs for initial development
and continuing maintenance; such standards shall include the following:
      (1)   The proper location and width of streets and the proper location of
building setback lines, open spaces, recreational areas and public lands;
      (2)   The avoidance of conditions which would lead to the creation of
blighted areas;
      (3)   The avoidance of overcrowding of population and congestion of
vehicular traffic;
      (4)   The proper grading and improvement of streets and the provision of
water, sewer, storm water and other utility services to be provided; and
      (5)   The provision of adequate space for traffic and utility facilities
for access of emergency apparatus; for the control of the number, spacing, type
and design of access points to existing or future streets; for minimum width,
depth, and area of lots; for adequate light and air; and for a proper
distribution of population.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.005 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This chapter is intended as minimum requirements to achieve the stated
purposes, as specified in §
156.004.
   (B)   If any other provision of law relates to any matter covered herein,
the regulation providing the higher standard shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.006 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the County Board as defined herein.
The County Board shall have the authority to appoint a Code Administrator to
assist in carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.007 INSTANCES WHEN PLATS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The provisions of these regulations do not apply and no plat is
required in the instances listed below. However, the County Board may require
Plats Act, being 765 ILCS 205/, compliance when substantial development
warrants such. Refer to §
156.008.
   (B)   Otherwise the following exceptions are in effect:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other pipe
lines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (6)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyance relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (7)   Conveyance made to correct description in prior conveyances;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959 and not involving any new streets or easements of
access; and
      (9)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided, however, that
this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract existing as of October 1, 1973 and provided also that this
exception does not invalidate any local requirements applicable to the
subdivision of land.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.008 SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   Land unsuitable for subdivision development due to drainage, flood hazard
area, hillside area, rock formation or any other conditions constituting a
danger to health, life or property shall not be approved for subdivision
development unless the subdivider presents evidence or data to the County Board
establishing that the methods proposed to meet any such conditions are adequate
to avoid any danger to health, life or property.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
DEFINITIONS
§ 156.020 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular
number shall include the plural and plural the singular; the word “building”
shall include the word “structure”; the word “shall” is mandatory; the word
“may” is permissive.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.021 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor way used primarily for the vehicular service access to the
rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, including the area to be dedicated for street and
alley rights-of-way and public use.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways or barrier
(except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision unless
exterior boundary is a street or highway) or a combination of streets, public
parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines or waterways or corporate
boundary lines.
   BLOCK, NET. The entire area within the boundary lines of the territory
proposed for subdivision, less the area to be dedicated for street and alley
rights-of-way and public use.
   BUILDING. Any structure, whether temporary, semi permanent or permanent,
designed or intended for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection of
persons or property.
   BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision development planned and constructed so as
to group housing units into relatively dense patterns while providing a unified
network of open space and wooded areas, and meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   COUNTY. Jersey County, Illinois.
   COUNTY CODE ADMINISTRATOR. An individual appointed by the Jersey County
Board to administer the county subdivision regulations.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. Either the County Superintendent of Highways or such other
licensed professional engineer designated by the County Board to conduct
business or perform defined professional engineering services of the county in
his or her place instead.
   DENSITY, GROSS. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area. Expressed as gross dwelling units per acre.
   DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the project area
less area for rights-of-way.
   DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and the arrangement of
easements, lots and rights-of-way, including specifications of materials,
alignment, grade and width of these elements.
   DRAINAGE WAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek, or ditch which
carries storm water runoff, which is subject to flooding or ponding, which is
fed by street or building gutters or by storm water sewers, or which serves the
purpose of draining water from the lands adjacent to such watercourse, gully
dry stream, creek or ditch.
   EASEMENT. A right to use another person’s property, but only for a limited
and specifically named purpose.
   HILLSIDE AREA. An area with an average slope of 20% or more.
   IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas and storm water) to be installed or agreed to be
installed by the subdivider on land to be used for public or private streets,
and easements or other purposes as are necessary for the general use of lot
owners in the subdivision. Including the furnishing of all materials,
equipment, work and services such as engineering, staking and supervising,
necessary to construct all the improvements that may be provided by the
subdivider. All of such materials, equipment and services shall be provided at
the subdivider’s cost and expense, although he or she may enter into a contract
with individuals and firms to complete such improvements, and the improvements
shall be subject to the final approval of the County Board.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities to be installed
in, or in conjunction with, the subdivision.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended to be separately owned, rented, developed or
otherwise used as a unit.
   LOT, BUTT. A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersections.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines measured in the general direction of the lot lines.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot fronting on or abutting a public road and where access to
the public road is by a narrow, portion of the lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot whose side lines do not abut upon any street.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street. On a corner
lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the frontage having the least dimension.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line most nearly parallel to and most remote from
the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear lot line. A CORNER
SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is called a STREET SIDE LOT LINE.
A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an INTERIOR
SIDED LOT LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot, established either by a legally recorded subdivision
plat, by a legally recorded instrument of conveyance containing a metes and
bounds description, or in any other legal manner.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT, WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right angle to
the general direction of the side lot lines.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distance of the lines
forming the boundaries of the property.
   OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to
be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
these regulations.
   PARKING LANE. An auxiliary lane of a street and primarily used for vehicular
parking.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE OR BOND. A surety issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in Illinois and approved by the County Treasurer to
guarantee installation of any improvements.
   PERSON. Any agent, individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
syndicate or trust.
   PLANS. All of the drawings including plats, general plans, cross-sections,
profiles, working details and specifications, which the subdivider prepares or
has prepared to show the character, extent and details of improvements required
in §§
156.075 through
156.099 and
156.110 through
156.132.
   PLAT. The maps, drawings, charts, and other documents complying with all
applicable provisions of this chapter which constitute the plan for
subdivision.
   PLATS, FINAL. A formal, detailed map completed and certified by a registered
land surveyor. It must conform substantially to the preliminary plat which has
been approved by the County Board. The FINAL PLAT legally establishes the
individual lots and streets. It is submitted to the County Recorder of Deeds
for recording after approval by the County Board.
   PLATS, PRELIMINARY. As completed by a registered land surveyor, provides
information on street right-of-way and pavement width, street design, lot size
and configuration, topography, location of utilities and proposed easements in
the subdivision. Is subject to approval by the County Board.
   PROJECT AREA. The territory intended to be subdivided or developed, and
portrayed and defined in the preliminary and final plats.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS OR CONTRACTS. Contracts entered into between private
parties and constituting a restriction on the use of all private property
within a subdivision for the benefit of the property owners, and to provide
mutual protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend
to impair stability of values.
   RE-SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW). A strip of parcel of land over which the owner, by
dedication or otherwise, has granted the right of use for streets, alleys or
other public purposes. RIGHT-OF-WAY is also a land measurement term, meaning
the distance between lot property lines which generally contains not only the
street pavement, but also the sidewalks, planting strip, underground and
sometimes above ground utilities.
   ROADBED. The graded portion of a street upon which the base course, surface
course shoulders and median are constructed.
   ROADWAY. The entire improved portion of the street, including shoulders,
parking lanes, travel way, curbs and gutter.
   SETBACK LINE. A line that is usually parallel to the front, side or rear lot
line establishing the minimum space to be provided as the front, side or rear
yard.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. The Jersey County Soil and Water
Conservation District.
   SPECIFICATIONS.
      (1)   The Standard Specifications for Road, Bridge, Sewer and Water
Construction, prepared by the Department of Transportation, Department of
Public Health and the Environmental Protection Agency of the state, as adopted
and amended by said agencies, which are in effect at the time area is being
subdivided.
      (2)   Any term in such SPECIFICATIONS referring to state departments or
officials or to persons contracting with the state shall be deemed to refer to
applicable departments, officials or persons in the county, and the term
CONTRACTOR shall specifically apply to the subdivider who is responsible for
installing all of the improvements required in §§
156.075 through
156.099 and
156.110 through
156.132 even though the subdivider may enter into agreements for such
installing by other persons, firms or corporations.
   STREET. A public or private way for the purpose of vehicular travel. The
term includes all facilities which normally occur within the right-of-way. It
shall also include such other designation for a street as: a highway;
thoroughfare; parkway; throughway; road; pike; avenue; boulevard; lane; place;
drive; court; or as otherwise designated, but excluding an alley or a way for
pedestrian use only.
   STREET, BUTT OR STUB. A street that is temporarily terminated but is planned
for future continuation; a temporary turn-around area must be provided.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. Interconnect the principal street system with the minor
streets; provide internal circulation within residential, commercial and
industrial areas; provide access to abutting properties; and have a moderate
volume design capacity and travel speeds.
   STREET, DEAD-END. Minor streets similar to cul-de-sacs except that they
provide no turnaround circle at their closed end, and are not permitted in any
proposed subdivision.
   STREET, LOOPED. Land access streets having two open ends, each end generally
connecting with the same street, no other streets intersecting between its
ends, and property fronts on both sides of the street.
   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS or SERVICE ROAD. A land access street parallel and
adjacent to area services highways providing access to abutting properties.
   STREET, MINOR. Provides access to abutting properties, have a relatively
short travel distance, and have a low volume design capacity and travel speeds.
Sometimes called land access streets, they conduct traffic to and from dwelling
units within a subdivision to other streets.
   STREET, PRIMARY HIGHWAY. Interconnect collectors and minor streets with the
principal system and vice versa, bring all developed areas within a reasonable
distance of principal streets, connect and provided direct access to major
traffic generators, provide secondary service to smaller communities, may
provide access to abutting property, and have a medium volume design capacity
and travel speeds. PRIMARY HIGHWAYS included county and state highways.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed which requires permanent or temporary
location on the ground or is attached to something having a permanent or
temporary location on the ground.
   SUBDIVIDE. See SUBDIVISION.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person dividing or proposing to divide land in a manner that
constitutes a subdivision as herein defined except for state, county and
township highway departments.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   (a)   The division of land into two or more lots or parcels for the
purpose of either immediate or future sale, rental or building development or
use(s) other than agricultural use or production.
         (b)   Establishment to dedication of a public street or alley through
a tract of land regardless of size.
      (2)   The term SUBDIVISION shall also include all re-subdivisions of land
or lots.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A division of land into two but not more than four lots,
all of which front upon an existing street, not involving any new streets or
other rights-of-way, easements and improvements, or other provisions for public
areas and facilities. No portion of land to be divided has ever been a portion
of land previously divided as a MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   TRAVELED WAY. The portion of a street used for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.035 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   Before submitting a preliminary plat the applicant is encouraged to
confer with the Code Administrator to obtain information and guidance before
entering into binding commitments or incurring substantial expense in the
preparation of detailed plats, surveys and other data. The applicant is further
encouraged to consult with city officials, county officials, public utility
companies, school districts, fire districts, levee districts, road districts
and other agencies or districts concerning the availability of services and
facilities in the area proposed to be subdivided.
   (B)   The applicant is urged to consult with the County Engineer regarding
engineering specifications and requirements for street construction.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.036 PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES.
   Preliminary plat procedures are detailed in §§
156.037 through
156.048.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.037 SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   A subdivider desiring to subdivide a tract of land shall file an
application with the Code Administrator.
   (B)   Such application shall include:
      (1)   Two copies of a written request for preliminary review of such
subdivision and a general description of the location and size of the tract to
be platted; the intent as to character type and use of the property and
structures to be developed; the deed restrictions proposed, if any; a statement
of mineral rights; the extent and character of the improvements to be made by
the subdivider; and any unique hardship or difficulty limiting the physical
development of the property under consideration and a description of any past
history of the property under consideration which is pertinent thereto; and
      (2)   Eight copies or prints of the preliminary plat and other necessary
documentation in accordance with the requirements of §
156.049.
   (C)   The Code Administrator shall review the application to determine
whether or not it contains the required items. If the application is found to
be incomplete, the Code Administrator shall return it to the applicant with an
explanation of what items are missing. Upon receipt of a complete application,
the Code Administrator shall forward one copy to the County Engineer and one
copy to the County Soil and Water Conservation District and one copy to the
County Health Department and one copy to the 911 Coordinator.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.038 COUNTY ENGINEER’S REVIEW.
   The County Engineer shall review the application submitted to him or her by
the Code Administrator and shall return the application to the Code
Administrator along with any comments within 30 days of receipt.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.039 ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION REVIEW.
   (A)   The County Engineer will submit a copy of the preliminary plat to the
State Department of Transportation for the purpose of reviewing points of
access for subdivisions that border on state maintained highways.
   (B)   The County Engineer shall forward a copy of the preliminary plat
within five days of receiving the plat. All comments concerning access will be
forwarded to the County Engineer within 30 days of receipt by the Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.040 TOWNSHIP ROAD DISTRICT HIGHWAY COMMISSIONER REVIEW.
   If the proposed subdivision lies within the jurisdiction of a township road
district, the County Engineer will submit a copy of the preliminary plat to the
Road District Highway Commissioner for the purpose of reviewing proposed roads
that may become a part of the districts road system. The County Engineer shall
forward a copy of the preliminary plat within five days of receiving the plat.
All comments concerning the proposed roads will be forwarded to the County
Engineer within 30 days of receipt by the Township Road District Highway
Commissioner.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.041 SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT REVIEW.
   The County Soil and Water Conservation District may comment on the
preliminary plat within 30 days after receiving the application. Said comment
shall be noted, in writing, and filed with the Code Administrator. If comments
are not received within 30 days, it shall be assumed that the Soil and Water
Conservation District has no objections to the proposed preliminary plat.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.042 LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT REVIEW.
   The County Health Department shall comment on the preliminary plat within 30
days after receiving the application. Said comment shall be noted in writing
and filed with the Code Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.043 911 COORDINATOR REVIEW.
   The 911 Coordinator will establish address ranges and street designations
for the County Clerk and subdivider within 30 days after receiving the
application. Said comment shall be noted in writing and filed with the Code
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.044 SUBDIVISION AND LAND USE COMMITTEE ACTION.
   (A)   (1)   The Code Administrator shall, upon receipt, forward to the
Subdivision and Land Use Committee; the copy of the application and any
comments received from the County Engineer under §
156.038 and any comments received from the County Soil and Water Conservation
District and any comments from the County Health Department and any comments
from the 911 Coordinator under §§
156.041,
156.042 and
156.043.
      (2)   The Code Administrator shall publish a notice for one week in a
local newspaper of general circulation throughout the county of the proposed
application. Letters shall be mailed to all surrounding landowners.
   (B)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall review the preliminary
plat considering the results of the public hearing, if held, and either
recommends, recommends with changes, or does not recommend within 60 days of
the date on which it was filed with the Code Administrator.
      (1)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee sets forth the grounds for
such recommendation in the proceedings and transmits them to the County Board
for its consideration.
      (2)   The County Board, in turn, submits findings for non-approval to the
subdivider. If such plat is approved, the design is thereby accepted as a basis
for the preparation of the final plat, and the County Board shall furnish
within said 60 days a written notice of such action to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.045 CERTIFICATION OF APPROVAL.
   If the proposed plan of subdivision as shown by the preliminary plat is
approved, the original of the plat and one print or copy of plat shall be
endorsed by the Subdivision and Land Use Committee and the County Board as
follows:
 
   The proposed plan of subdivision as shown on this plat and accompany
documents, has received tentative approval by the Subdivision and Land Use
Committee. (Refer to
Appendix B.)
   The proposed plan of subdivision as shown on this plat and accompanying
documents, has received tentative approval by the County Board and said Board
is now ready to receive the final plat for consideration. (Refer to
Appendix C.)
 
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.046 FILING.
   Two copies of the approved preliminary plat shall be filed with the Code
Administrator and a signed copy of the approved preliminary plat shall be
returned to the subdivider.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.047 RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Preliminary plat approval shall confer upon the subdivider the
following rights and privileges.
      (1)   The preliminary plat approval will remain in effect for a one-year
period. The applicant may, during this period, submit all of or part or parts
of said preliminary plat for final approval. In the event that the subdivision
is being developed in stages, the applicant may, by written, mutual agreement
with the County Board have final approval of the last part of the plat delayed
for a period not to exceed three years from the date of the preliminary plat
approval. Any part of a subdivision which is being developed in stages shall
contain a tract of land at least one block in length.
      (2)   The general terms and conditions under which the preliminary plat
approval was granted will not be changed, unless by mutual agreement of the
subdivider and the County Board.
      (3)   The applicant may also proceed with any detailed improvement plans
required for all facilities or utilities intended to be provided.
   (B)   Actual construction of such facilities and improvements may commence
prior to final plat approval if the detailed improvement plans have been
accepted by the County Engineer, provided that such facilities and improvements
will be inspected by the County Engineer or his or her duly appointed
representative throughout their construction and final plat approval will be
contingent in part upon acceptable compliance to county improvement and
facilities standards. If the applicant does not submit the improvement plans
prior to the submission of the final plat, then he or she shall submit the
improvement plans to the Code Administrator at the time that the final plat is
submitted.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.048 SUBDIVISION NEAR MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   For any proposed subdivision lying within one and one-half miles of
the corporate limits of any municipality that has adopted and filed with the
County Clerk an official comprehensive plan, which plan has been implemented by
ordinance as provided by state statutes, the plan shall be submitted to the
municipality for approval. However, the subdivider shall submit a copy of the
preliminary plat as approved by the municipality to the County Board for review
and comment.
   (B)   The Code Administrator, in consultation with the County Engineer shall
determine if said preliminary plat complies with the rules, specifications and
regulations regarding location, width, grades, and surface of roads and
drainage structures established by the County Board as provided herein.
Whenever the preliminary plat does not comply with the above, the County Board
shall notify the municipality in writing of the specific instances of
noncompliance.
   (C)   The County Board shall also notify the Township Highway Commissioner
in writing whenever the preliminary plat contains roads or streets that are
less than the specifications and regulations provided herein. The Township
Highway Commissioner may refuse to accept any such noncomplying streets or
roads for incorporation into or as a part of the township road system. In such
cases, the subdivider shall erect a sign at least four feet by six feet, but
not to exceed 30 square feet at each entrance to the subdivision stating that
the streets and drainage structures within the subdivision have been refused
for maintenance by the township or the county. Such information shall also be
plainly printed on the plat(s).
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.049 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The preliminary plat to be provided by the subdivider shall meet and include
the following specifications:
   (A)   Name under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded;
   (B)   Small key map showing the relation of the proposed subdivision to
section or U.S. survey lines and to platted subdivisions and dedicated streets
within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision. The key map shall show the
location of any corporate limits of any municipality lying within one and one-
half miles or less of the subdivision;
   (C)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and land planning
consultant, and the registered land surveyor who prepared the preliminary plat;
   (D)   Existing and proposed streets or alleys and rights-of-way on and
adjoining the site of the proposed subdivision; showing the names and including
street roadway and right-of-way widths, approximate gradients, types and widths
of pavement, curbs, sidewalks, crosswalks, planting strips and other pertinent
data, including classification of all streets as to function as established
herein;
   (E)   Tract boundary lines, showing their lengths and directions according
to available information and references to lines of the public land survey and
of other major land divisions;
   (F)   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision, and
identification of adjoining lots;
   (G)   Layout of proposed lots, showing their approximate dimensions, number
of lots and their approximate or minimum area, showing an identifying number
for each lot;
   (H)   Parcels of land purposed to be dedicated or reserved for schools,
playgrounds or other public, semi-public or community purposes, the use(s) of
the area to be subdivided;
   (I)   Location and size of existing public utilities and drainage ways or
facilities within or adjoining the proposed subdivision and the location and
size of nearest water trunk mains, interceptor sewer lines and other pertinent
utilities;
   (J)   Location, type and approximate size of utility improvements to be
installed;
   (K)   Easements, existing and proposed, showing locations, widths and
purposes;
   (L)   The gross and net area of the proposed subdivision, the area of street
rights-of-way, and the area of any parcels reserved for the common use of the
property owners within the subdivision or for public use;
   (M)   Where the topography has a significant bearing upon the street grades,
the plan of public utilities and drainage ways or facilities in the proposed
subdivision, contour lines at not greater than five-foot intervals shall be
shown. Contour lines shall be shown for all areas with slopes of 5% or greater;
   (N)   Location of major watercourses, ponding areas, natural drainage ways
and flood hazard areas;
   (O)   The preliminary plat shall be drawn on a scale of 50 feet to one inch,
or 100 feet to one inch; provided, however, that if the resulting drawing would
be over 36 inches in the shortest dimension, a scale as recommenced by the
County Board may be used;
   (P)   North arrow and date;
   (Q)   Whenever a large tract is intended to be developed in stages, and only
a part of that tract is to be submitted for final plat approval, a preliminary
plat for subdivision of the entire tract shall be submitted with notation made
of the part to be next submitted for final approval;
   (R)   A statement to the effect that “this plat is not for record” shall be
printed or stamped upon all copies of the preliminary plat;
   (S)   Location of existing structures and other pertinent features;
   (T)   Landscaping plan and proposed limits on the location and intensity of
signs, advertising and off-street parking shall be included in the case of a
proposed subdivision for industrial or commercial use;
   (U)   Soil information and a soils map, when required;
   (V)   A comprehensive sewage plan including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A soil investigation in accordance with the State Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code, consisting of three test borings per proposed
lot;
      (2)   An interpretation of the soil investigation and recommendations for
on-site wastewater disposal based on the soil investigation;
      (3)   Location of the soil investigation borings marked reserving this
area for on-site waste disposal. Any area reserved for on-site waste disposal
shall remain undisturbed during development;
      (4)   All lots served by an on-site waste disposal system shall utilize
subsurface waste disposal when possible and practical;
      (5)   All lots utilizing surface discharging waste disposal systems shall
designate the point of discharge on the plat. This point of discharge shall be
in accordance with all sections of the State Private Sewage Disposal Licensing
Act and Code;
      (6)   Adequate drainage easements shall be established to accommodate for
all effluent discharged from on-site wastewater disposal systems;
      (7)   When an aerobic treatment unit is utilized for on-site waste
disposal it shall be followed by 200 square feet of subsurface absorption field
per bedroom when practical in regards to soil characteristics and the water
table of the lot;
      (8)   Any lot discharging effluent to the ground surface from an aerobic
treatment unit shall maintain a maintenance contract on said system in
accordance with terms equal to the initial service policy stated in the State
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code;
      (9)   Surface discharging wastewater treatment systems shall be permitted
only on properties deemed unsuitable for a subsurface wastewater treatment
system;
      (10)   Common collector lines for receiving effluent shall not serve more
than two houses and shall meet all requirements set forth in the Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/ and Private Sewage Disposal Code, 77 Ill.
Admin. Code, Ch. I, Part 905; and
      (11)   Easements and maintenance agreements shall be established in
regards to common collector effluent lines.
   (W)   The 911 address ranges and street designations.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.050 IMPROVEMENT PLAN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   After the preliminary plat is approved, improvement plans shall be
approved by the County Engineer who shall certify to the County Board that the
plan is in conformance with these regulations and requirements. Variance from
these requirements shall be permitted only by County Board action; no
developer, however, shall proceed with any construction work in the project
area before obtaining this approval. In minor subdivisions, if in the opinion
of the County Board this requirement would create an unnecessary hardship, the
County Board may waive improvement plan requirements.
   (B)   To secure formal action on the improvement plans, the developer shall
file four prints or copies of the improvement plans with the County Engineer.
   (C)   (1)   The County Engineer shall review the proposed improvement plans
and notify the County Board, in writing, of his or her approval, conditional
approval or denial.
      (2)   The County Engineer shall notify the applicant by making a copy of
his or her report stating approval, conditional approval or denial. In cases
where township roads will be concerned, the County Engineer shall consult with
the Township Highway Commissioner. The County Engineer shall notify the
applicant by making a copy of his or her report stating approval, conditional
approval or denial.
         (a)   APPROVAL means the applicant is now authorized to proceed with
the physical improvements in the subdivision.
         (b)   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL means the developer may proceed as outlined
in division (C)(2)(a) above, but only after he or she has submitted three
copies of the corrected improvement plans to the County Engineer.
         (c)   DENIAL means disapproval of improvement plans. For further
consideration the developer must rework his or her plans to conform to the
requirements, and then resubmit the reworked plans to the County Engineer as
though they were a completely new set of plans.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.051 IMPROVEMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   After the preliminary plat is approved, improvement plans prepared by
a registered professional engineer licensed in the state for the subdivision of
all or any part of the tract shall be submitted to the County Engineer for
review.
   (B)   Improvement plans shall be prepared on an exhibit not to exceed 48
inches by 48 inches and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Title page, which shall include key map showing the relationship of
the area to be subdivided to the preliminary plat and which shall reflect areas
of the preliminary plant previously subdivided plus adjacent streets;
      (2)   North arrow and scale;
      (3)   Title block showing name and address of developer and engineering
firm, as well as the registered engineer’s seal;
      (4)   One or more bench marks, in or near the subdivision, to which the
subdivision is referenced. The elevation shall be based on the sea level datum;
      (5)   List of the standards and specifications followed, citing volume,
section, page or other references;
      (6)   An estimate by the engineer preparing the improvement plans of the
cost of the improvement;
      (7)   Existing and proposed survey monuments shall be shown on street
plans and on the proposed final plat as required in §
156.111;
      (8)   Grading plans showing finished grades;
      (9)   Soil information and a soils map, when required;
      (10)   Soil investigation data and locations of test holes, when
required;
      (11)   Plans and profiles shall be drawn at a scale not less than one
inch equals 100 feet horizontal; and one inch equals ten feet vertical. All
dimensions shall be to the nearest one and one- hundredths of a foot and angles
to the nearest minute;
      (12)   Plans, profiles and cross-sections of streets showing right-of-way
and surface widths, elevations, paving details, grades, names, curb and gutter,
catch basins, sidewalks and any other improvements to be constructed or placed
within the street right-of-way;
      (13)   Plan of any water supply system, serving more than one property,
showing locations, pipe sizes, pump stations (size, capacity and type), hydrant
and valve location. If a private water supply system, serving more than one
property, is proposed; then all information required either by the State
Environmental Protection Agency for supplies with ten or more connections or by
the County Health Department for supplies with less than ten connections, shall
be submitted with the improvement plans;
      (14)   Plan of any sewage disposal system serving more than one property,
showing pipe locations, sizes, force mains, invert elevations, slope, manhole
locations, lift stations (size, capacity and type) and points of discharge. If
area is subject to flooding or inundation, any additional provisions shall be
shown (i.e., anchoring, special pipe, groundwater information and the like). If
a private treatment system is proposed that serves more than one property, then
all information required by the State Environmental Protection Agency shall be
submitted with the improvement plans (i.e., treatment proposed, size, type,
capacity, locations, outfall points and the like); and
      (15)   Plan of drainage systems including watershed outlines with
drainage computations, retention basins showing drainage areas, locations of
storm sewers, corrugated metal pipe type culverts (sizes and type), drainage
channels, swales, indicating slopes, pipe sizes, invert elevations, underground
drains, outlet locations and velocity reduction techniques.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.052 FINAL MAP.
   After the completion of the construction of the improvements, a master copy
of a final map of the improvements accompanied by three prints shall be
submitted to the Code Administrator. The master copy of the map shall be on
heavy, transparent paper, Mylar or cloth in a form suitable for providing clear
and legible prints or copies there from. The maps shall show the exact location
and nature of utilities located under or along streets, alleys or easements.
Valves, hydrants, ditches, catch basins, culverts, sewer lines and special
fittings or feature shall be shown and located as they were installed and
constructed.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.053 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES.
   Final plat procedures are detailed in §§
156.054 through
156.058.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.054 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   The final plat and six copies shall be filed with the Code
Administrator along with a written request for approval. The final plat
submitted shall include all plans and specifications and other such documents
as may be necessary concerning the form of performance guarantee or bond to be
used, if any.
   (B)   The Code Administrator shall review the material submitted to
determine whether or not it is complete. If the material is incomplete, the
Code Administrator shall return the final plat and accompanying documents to
the applicant with a written description of what items are missing. Upon
receipt of a complete final plat application, the Code Administrator shall
forward one copy of the final plat to the County Engineer and the remaining
material to the County Board.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.055 COUNTY ENGINEER REVIEW.
   The County Engineer and the Township Highway Commissioner shall review the
copy of the final plat submitted to him or her by the Code Administrator and
shall return any comments to the Code Administrator within 15 days of receipt.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.056 SUBDIVISION AND LAND USE REVIEW AND ACTION.
   (A)   The Code Administrator shall, upon receipt, forward any comments
received from the County Engineer to the Subdivision and Land Use Committee.
      (1)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall review the final plat
and documentation and shall take action on the final plat within 90 days from
the date on which the last required document or other supporting data was filed
with the Code Administrator, unless such time is extended by mutual consent.
      (2)   The Code Administrator shall publish a notice of final plat for
four weeks in a local newspaper of general circulation throughout the county.
The Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall set forth the grounds for its
recommendations and transmits them to the County Board for their consideration.
The County Board, in turn, submits findings for non-approval or approval to the
subdivider within said 90 days a written notice of such action to the
applicant.
   (B)   The County Board shall not approve a final plat unless the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The final plat conforms to the preliminary plat approved
previously;
      (2)   The final plat meets the design standards and engineering
specifications set forth herein;
      (3)   The final plat meets all requirements of the laws of the state; and
      (4)   The subdivider or applicant agrees to post a performance guarantee
or bond with the county equal to the estimated costs of all improvements to be
dedicated to the county, township or any public body for maintenance and
operation.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.057 SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT REVIEW.
   The County Board may, if it believes that substantial changes have been made
from the preliminary plat, request that the Soil and Water Conservation
District review the final plat.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.058 CERTIFICATION OF ACTION.
   (A)   The County Clerk shall attach to a copy of the final plat a certified
copy of the County Board’s resolution certifying approval or disapproval.
   (B)   If the final plat is disapproved, the reasons for such action and
specific instances where said plat is not in conformance with the requirements
herein shall be noted.
   (C)   If the final plat is approved, the Chairperson of the County Board
shall be authorized to affix his or her signature to the plat and attach
thereto a notation that the plat has received final approval of the County
Board. The County Clerk shall then attest the signature of the Chairperson and
affix the county seal thereto. The approved final plat shall be held by the
County Clerk until such time as the subdivider or applicant pay the recording
fee and submits any required performance guarantee or bond as set forth in §
156.124, which shall be posted within 90 days from date of approval, unless
such time is extended by written mutual consent of the subdivider and the
county. Upon receiving the recording fee and any required performance bond or
other guarantee as mentioned herein, the County Clerk shall record the plat
within ten days thereof.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.059 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The final plat to be provided by the subdivider shall meet the following
specifications.
   (A)   The final plat may include all or only a part of the project area
portrayed on the preliminary plat which has received approval.
   (B)   The final plat shall be drawn on new linen tracing cloth, Mylar or
other material of comparable stability with waterproof black ink to a scale of
not more than 50 feet to one inch, provided that if the resulting drawing would
be greater than 36 inches in the shortest dimension, a scale of up to 100 feet
to one inch may be used. Six copies or prints shall be provided by the
subdivider, with the Mylar or linen original.
   (C)   All dimensions shall be shown in feet and decimals of a foot.
   (D)   The final plat shall be prepared under the active and personal
direction of a registered state land surveyor, who shall certify that the plat
correctly shows the results of his or her survey of the boundaries and platting
of parcels within the subdivision.
   (E)   A suitable border line should be placed on all tracings with a margin
of not less than one-half inch on all sides.
   (F)   The final plat shall portray or present the following:
      (1)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearing or angles,
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot to 5,000 feet;
      (2)   Accurate metes and bounds description of the boundary and the area
of the subdivision (see definition of metes and bound description in §
156.021);
      (3)   Reference to known and permanent monuments and bench marks from
which future surveys may be made together with elevations of any bench marks;
and the surveyor must, at the time of making his or her survey, establish
permanent monuments, set in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost,
which mark the external boundaries of the tract to be divided or subdivided and
must designate upon the plat the locations where they may be found;
      (4)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats of adjoining platted land
by record name, date and number, shown by medium dashed and two dotted lines;
      (5)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets
intersecting the boundaries of the tract shown by heavy solid lines;
      (6)   Right-of-way line of streets, easements and other rights-of-way and
property lines of lots and other tracts, with accurate dimensions, bearing and
curve data, including radii, arcs and chords, points of tangency and central
angles;
      (7)   Name and right-of-way width for each street or other right-of-way;
      (8)   Location and dimensions of any easement shown by light based lines
and a statement of purpose for each easement;
      (9)   Number to identify each lot or site along with indicating an
approved U.S. Post Office E-911 address for each lot and/or building site;
      (10)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are
dedicated or reserved;
      (11)   The size (in square feet) of each lot, lot dimensions of each lot,
and building or setback lines and dimensions;
      (12)   Location of all monuments and lot markers;
      (13)   Certification, before a notary public, by the owners in fee of all
property embraced within the final plat, acknowledging the plat to be their
free and voluntary act, dedicating to the public use forever the streets and
drainage easements shown thereon, dedicating the easements shown thereon for
the construction and maintenance of municipal and public utility services, and
stating that building lines shown thereon will be referenced to all future
conveyances of lots in the subdivision. In addition, the dedication or
reservation to the public of any right-of-way lying along any public road
adjacent to the boundaries of the plat;
      (14)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and become
covenant in the deeds for lots. Restriction lines should be shown by medium
dashed lines;
      (15)   Title or name of subdivision; identification of the portion of the
public lands survey in which the subdivision is located; and north arrow, scale
and date drawn;
      (16)   Certification by registered land surveyor and registered engineer
with registration numbers and seal affixed to all final documents prepared by
the surveyor and engineer;
      (17)   Certification by registered land surveyor with registration
numbers and seal affixed to all final documents prepared by the surveyor. Said
certificate shall further certify that no lot is subject to flooding or
inundation from internal drainage. If any lot is subject to flooding or
inundation then this information must be plainly printed on each plat and
recorded on the deeds to all lots so subject. Any lot within 500 feet of said
flooding or inundation area shall be considered a flood hazard;
      (18)   Certificate for sign-off by a village or city within one and one-
half miles of their limits;
      (19)   Certificate that all taxes due have been paid;
      (20)   Certificate for approval by the Subdivision and Land Use
Committee, County Engineer, County Board, IDOT (if applicable), County Clerk
and 911 Coordinator (see Appendices B, C, G, H and I);
      (21)   Soil investigation data and location of test holes when required
reserving said location for on-site wastewater disposal; and
      (23)   If the subdivision street design specifications are the minimum as
indicated in §
156.085, the final plat shall include a statement that the streets are not
designed to accommodate on street parking.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.060 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions are subject to the same procedures and requirements
as final plats.
   (B)   Final plat procedures and requirements shall be as specified in §§
156.053 through
156.059.
      (1)   The number of lots to be no more than four with minimum road
frontage of 150 to 200 feet.
      (2)   The lot size to be no less than two acres.
      (3)   All minor subdivisions to have residential classifications.
      (4)   All entrances must be established and approved before any lots are
sold. One entrance shall accommodate two lots. Mail boxes placed together on
the same side of the road.
      (5)   A minor subdivision can only be done once per landowner per tax
I.D. number. Any variance from this rule will be considered a subdivision in
which those rules will apply and existing lots brought up to those
specifications.
      (6)   Septic system cannot discharge in ditch system or adjoining
properties and must have Health Department approval.
      (7)   All homes in minor subdivisions built by ICC Codes or NFAP 5000
rules and recommendations.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.061 RECORDING.
   No subdivision plat or re-plat shall be filed for record or recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county unless and until the approval of
the County Board Chairperson or appropriate corporate official of a
municipality with jurisdiction is endorsed thereon. No lot shall be sold from
such subdivision plat or re-plat until it has been approved and filed for
record in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county, as herein
provided.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.062 ILLEGAL PLATS.
   It shall be unlawful for the County Recorder to accept for recording any
plat of a subdivision within the unincorporated area of the county until the
plat has been approved as required herein and such approval has been endorsed
in writing on the plat or as otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007) Penalty, see §
156.999
§ 156.063 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The County Board shall not permit any public improvements under its
jurisdiction to be constructed or maintained with an area that has been
subdivided after the adoption of this chapter unless such subdivision has been
approved in accordance with the requirements contained herein.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.064 FEES.
   (A)   Thirty percent of all fees collected by the Code Administrator shall
be deposited into the Code Administrator’s fund and the balance deposited to
the General Corporate Fund of the county.
   (B)   The following fees shall apply:
      (1)   The review fee for the preliminary plat and final plat shall be a
combined fee of $600 plus $25 per lot or dwelling unit. The fee in the form of
a certified check shall be collected by the Code Administrator and deposited
with the County Treasurer.
      (2)   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of
this chapter shall be inspected during course of construction by the county’s
duly designated representative. The fees and costs connected with such
inspections and in reviewing improvement plans and specifications shall be paid
by the developer. The fee shall be 1% of the total estimated cost for all
improvements or as determined by the County Board.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
MINIMUM STANDARD OF DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT FOR STREET
§ 156.075 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The subdivider shall conform to the following principles and standards
of land subdivision in the design of each subdivision or portion thereof.
   (B)   No preliminary plat shall be approved unless it conforms to the
following minimum standards of design.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.076 BEST USE.
   The Code Administrator, in his or her review of the preliminary plat, will
take into consideration the requirements of the county and the best use of the
land being subdivided. The Code Administrator shall consult with soil
scientists, sanitarian and others during the review process.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.077 STREET PLANNING.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width and location of all streets
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to runoff of
storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate
relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
Wherever possible and necessary, the arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
shall provide for the continuation of existing streets in adjoining areas.
Where adjoining unsubdivided areas may be subdivided, the arrangement of
streets in a new subdivision shall make provision for the proper projection of
streets into adjoining area by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of
the new subdivision at appropriate locations. No building shall be allowed in
areas within a projected street continuation. In no case shall land be
subdivided in such a manner that adjoining property be denied access. All lots
and streets shall be arranged so ingress and egress is adequately provided for.
   (B)   A public street or streets shall be provided to afford convenient
access to all property within the subdivision. A private street or thoroughfare
may be permitted if access easements are provided for. When streets are
required within the subdivision, no less than one street of full width shall be
provided to furnish the subdivision with access to an existing public highway.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.078 CONTINUATION OF ADJOINING STREET SYSTEM.
   Where subdivision streets or rights-of-way are continuations or extensions
of existing streets or rights-of-way, the width thereof shall be of the same or
greater width as the existing street or right-of-way except that in no case
shall the street or right-of-way in the subdivision be of less width than the
minimum as provided herein. Dedication of half or portions of a street shall be
discouraged, but may be permitted whenever there is no other logical method of
platting.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.079 MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.
   (A)   Where the subdivision abuts on or contains an existing or proposed
primary highway, the County Board may require that marginal access streets be
provided in order that no lots front on such existing or proposed primary
highway. If the subdivision adjoins a non-access highway constructed by the
State Department of Transportation, the County Board, upon the recommendation
of the State Department of Transportation, may require the reservation of a
service road right-of-way with a minimum width of 60 feet, which road shall
parallel the highway and may have connections thereto at locations that are
jointly approved by the County Board and State Department of Transportation.
   (B)   If any tract of land proposed to be subdivided (or any part thereof)
lies adjacent to any highway over which the State Department of Transportation
has jurisdiction with respect to maintenance and upkeep, and an access is
desired from such highway to any lot, street, roadway, alley or otherwise in
such proposed subdivision, then the subdivider shall be required to obtain and
submit to the Code Administrator a written permit for the State Department of
Transportation granting him or her permission to construct such access way.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.080 PRIVATE RESERVE STRIPS.
   Private reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.081 STREET NAMES.
   Proposed streets, which are obviously in alignment with other existing and
named, shall bear the assigned name of the existing streets. In no case shall
the name of proposed streets duplicate or be phonetically similar to existing
street names, irrespective of the use of the suffix, street, avenue, boulevard,
drive, place, court and the like
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.082 ADDITIONAL RIGHT-OF-WAY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Wherever the State Department of Transportation or the county has gone
on record as desiring the relocation and/or the construction of a new highway
or whenever a municipality has duly recorded with the county a comprehensive
plan and/or adopted an official map defining the location of streets, the
subdivider shall reserve rights-of-way alignments and widths as prescribed by
the appropriate jurisdictional agency.
   (B)   In all cases where a subdivision contains or borders an existing or
proposed state highway, a minimum right-of-way width of 60 feet from the
centerline of the road shall be reserved.
   (C)   In all cases where a proposed subdivision borders on or includes a
county highway, such highway, where necessary, shall be relocated or
straightened in accordance with the surveys made by the County Engineer. The
minimum right-of-way width of such highway shall be 50 feet from the centerline
of the road and in no case less than the recorded width of such highway.
   (D)   In all cases where a proposed subdivision borders on or includes a
township road, such highway, where necessary, shall be relocated straightened
in accordance with surveys made by the County Highway Engineer. The minimum
right-of-way width of such highway shall be 30 feet from the centerline of the
road.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.083 PRIVATE STREETS.
   (A)   Private roads and streets shall be permitted only when the subdivider
submits sufficient evidence to the County Board that there can be no public
interest in such private road or street. A subdivision of four lots or less may
be provided with a private street or road.
   (B)   Private road and street construction shall conform to the design
standards established in §
156.085.
   (C)   When such a private street is provided, the location and width must be
shown on the plat; the street must conform to the minimum requirements
contained herein.
   (D)   No additional subdivision may be developed using such a private street
as a means of access to a public road or street.
   (E)   The plat must contain a properly executed certificate by the
subdivider. (Refer to
Appendix D.)
   (F)   The deed must clearly show that said private streets are not dedicated
to the public but shall remain private, to be maintained by the adjoining lot
owners.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.084 PRIVATE STREETS: MAINTAINED BY PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   These signs shall be installed where they are easily visible to anyone
entering the subdivision and maintained in good order by the subdivider until
the last lot is sold in the subdivision and by the property owners association
thereafter. The minimum size for each sign shall be 12 inches high by 18 inches
wide, with three inch high letters. The contrast between the background and the
lettering shall be sufficient to make the sign easily read. The plat must
contain a properly executed certificate by the subdivider.
   (B)   In addition to the signs, disclosure shall be made to each prospective
purchaser and purchaser within the subdivision, in substantially the following
form:
 
   THE STREETS IN THIS SUBDIVISION ARE PRIVATE AND ARE NOT MAINTAINED BY THE
TOWNSHIP OF ____________. THE OWNERS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL REPAIRS AND
MAINTENANCE OF SAID STREETS.
 
   (C)   This disclosure shall be printed on all purchase and the prospective
purchaser shall be made aware of this provision.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.085 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The following design standards shall be considered minimum requirements and
shall specifically apply to residential subdivision. The requirements for
nonresidential subdivisions shall be such as the County Board deems appropriate
for the type of development and use contemplated, but in no event be less than
the requirements of residential subdivisions. These provisions shall apply to
both public and private streets.
Figure A
Minimum Street Design Requirements Summary of §§
156.086 Through
156.098
Classification Collector Local Street Marginal Access Alleys
Figure A
Minimum Street Design Requirements Summary of §§
156.086 Through
156.098
Classification   Collector   Local Street     Marginal Access  Alleys
Base             Aggregate*  Aggregate 8 in.  Aggregate 8 in.  Aggregate 8 in.
                             compacted        compacted        compacted
Earth slope
Front 0 ft.—10 1V:3H       1V:3H            1V:3H            Not required
ft.
Back 0 ft.—10  1V:3H       1V:3H            1V:3H            Not required
ft.
Back over 10 ft. 1V:2H       1V:2H            1V:2H            Not required
Minimum right-
of-way width     60 ft.      50 ft.           50 ft.           20 ft.
(feet)
Minimum width of 30 ft.      24 ft.           24 ft.           18 ft.
surface (feet)
Minimum width of 32 ft.      26 ft.           26 ft.           20 ft.
base (feet)
Minimum width of 36 ft.      30 ft.           30 ft.           18 ft.
roadbed (feet)
Shoulder slope   3/4 in. per 3/4 in. per foot 3/4 in. per foot Not required
                 foot
Surface crown    1/4 in. per 1/4 in. per foot 1/4 in. per foot 1/4 in. per foot
                 foot
Type of surface  Bituminous  A-3 surface      A-3 surface      A-2 surface
                 concrete *  treatment        treatment        treatment
*Thickness of surface and base to be determined by soil type
 
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.086 RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH.
   (A)   Right-of-way width should be determined by expected future extensions,
volumes, land use type and density and the topographical conditions.
      (1)   The entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the
subdivision is on both sides of the right-of-way.
      (2)   When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing
right-of-way, which is less than the required width, the subdivider shall
dedicate additional right-of-way to meet the requirements, but not exceeding
one-half of the total required width.
      (3)   In minimum, width of a street, or part thereof, impractical, the
County Board may modify the right-of-way width requirements.
   (B)   Additional right-of-way width may be required; the following
represents minimums:
 
Collector street                 60 ft.
Local street and marginal access 50 ft.
 
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.087 STREET GRADES.
   (A)   Street grades shall not exceed the following unless otherwise approved
by the County Engineer:
 
                                 Maximum Minimum
Collector street                 6%      0.50%
Local street and marginal access 7%      0.50%
 
   (B)   Grades approaching intersections shall not exceed 5% for a distance of
not less than 100 feet from the centerline of said intersection.
   (C)   Surface cross-drainage shall not be permitted on any street.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.088 HORIZONTAL CURVES.
   Where a centerline deflection angle occurs, a circular curve shall be
introduced having a centerline radius of not less than the following:
 
Collector street                 200 ft.
Local street and marginal access 100 ft.
 
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.089 TANGENTS.
   There shall be a tangent of not less than 100 feet provided between reverse
curves on all streets.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.090 INTERSECTIONS.
   Street intersections shall be laid out as follows.
   (A)   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles and no
street shall intersect as less than 75 degrees.
   (B)   Intersections with a state highway shall be at least 1,320 feet apart
measured from centerline to centerline.
   (C)   Local street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least
25 feet; intersections involving collector streets shall have radii of not less
than 30 feet.
   (D)   Street intersections with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet
shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Intersection of more than two streets at one point shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.091 CUL-DE-SAC STREETS.
   (A)   Maximum length of permanent cul-de-sac street shall be 500 feet
measured along the centerline from the intersection of origin to end of right-
of-way.
   (B)   Each cul-de-sac shall be provided at the closed end with a turn around
having a radius at the outside of the pavement of at least 50 feet and a radius
at the outside of the right-of-way of at least 60 feet.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.092 ALLEYS.
   When required, alleys shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Alleys may be required in commercial and industrial district, except
that the County Board may waive this requirement where other definite and
assured provisions is made for service access, such as off-street loading,
unloading and parking facilities.
   (B)   Alleys are not permitted in residential district, except when the
County Board determines special conditions warrant a secondary means of access.
   (C)   Alleys, where provided, shall have a right-of-way of not less than 20
feet.
   (D)   Dead-end alleys shall not be permitted, except where provided with
adequate turn-around facilities at the dead-end, or where such dead-end alleys
provide the only access to off-street parking or loading spaces.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.093 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following general standards for street design shall be followed.
   (A)   In order to provide adequate traffic circulation and to ensure
adequate access to developed areas, collector streets shall be provided at
approximately one-half mile intervals.
   (B)   Local streets shall be designed so as to discourage through traffic.
   (C)   The County Board shall not approve streets which will be subject to
frequent inundation or flooding.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.094 CURB AND GUTTER.
   When combination concrete curb and gutter are proposed instead of open
ditches, the surface width shall be 27 feet face curb to face curb for local
and marginal access streets and 33 feet face curb to face curb for collector
streets. The design standards of the State Department of Transportation in
effect at the time of construction shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.095 SIDEWALKS.
   In most rural sections of the county, sidewalks will not be required by the
Subdivision and Land Use Committee. If the subdivision is located near a school
or an area where pedestrian traffic will be high, sidewalks may be required at
the discretion of the Subdivision and Land Use Committee.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.096 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   All new streets, which are created and dedicated for use within a
subdivision, shall be graded, drained and surfaced in accordance with the
minimum requirements herein set forth and in a manner which will provide
complete and adequate drainage of all the streets, alleys and public grounds in
the entire subdivision, including any such work which may be necessary in order
to provide adequate and satisfactory drainage along the side of any existing
public street which lies adjacent to the subdivision.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.097 PRIMARY HIGHWAYS.
   Construction of primary highways shall conform to the State Department of
Transportation Design and Construction Policies, Standards and Specifications
as previously amended.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.098 LOCAL AND MARGINAL STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   Local and marginal access streets shall be designed and surfaced
according to the requirements listed below and as summarized in Figure A in §
156.085.
      (2)   The developer shall assume responsibility for maintaining the
roadway including the seeding, removal of earth, crushed stone or other debris
from the pavement, curb and gutter where required and other drainage facilities
until acceptance by the Township Highway Commissioner or by the County Engineer
(as applicable). (Refer to 605 ILCS 5/6-325.)
   (B)   Local and marginal access street pavement shall consist of Type A base
course crushed stone, eight inches in thickness, conforming to State Department
of Transportation Specifications. Street surfacing shall be bituminous surface
treatment, conforming to the State Department of Transportation Specifications
for Class A-3, and shall be sufficient in the opinion of the County Engineer
and the Township Highway Commissioner to withstand the traffic that the roadway
will be subjected to.
   (C)   Before any paving work is commenced, all street grading shall be
completed as shown on grading plan submitted with the final plat of
subdivision.
   (D)   The surface course of the roadway pavement shall not be laid until the
backfilling of all trenches dug for the installation of the utility services
has completely settled or compacted to the satisfaction of the County Engineer
and the Township Highway Commissioner.
   (E)   Before the surface course of the roadway pavement is laid, all
depressions in the base course shall be properly filled and brought to the
required grade so as to create a level surface.
   (F)   Utility lines: underground utility lines in utility easements or
rights-of-way shall be installed prior to the construction of such streets and
alleys.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.099 STREET SIGNS.
   An appropriate street sign shall be erected at each street intersection
within the subdivision. The type of sign and location thereof shall be subject
to the approval and direction of the County 911 Coordinator.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT FOR UTILITIES
§ 156.110 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   Utility improvements shall be provided by the subdivider in each new
subdivision in accordance with the standards and the requirements described in
the following section. The requirements set forth below shall be considered as
minimum requirements and nothing contained herein shall be construed to mean
that the subdivision cannot construct or provide improvements of a higher type.
   (B)   No final plat shall be approved for recording unless:
      (1)   The improvements required in this subchapter have been completed
and approved prior to such approval; or
      (2)   The subdivider shall file a performance guarantee or bond as
provided in §
156.124.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.111 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   Reference monuments shall be set in accordance with The Plat Act, 765 ILCS
205/, as amended from time to time. All lot corners shall be marked with iron
pipes or pins.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.112 SEWERS, INDIVIDUAL SYSTEMS-DESIGN.
   (A)   (1)   The design of a private sewage disposal system shall take into
consideration location with respect to wells or other sources of water supply,
topography, existing private sewage disposal systems on adjacent properties,
water table, soil characteristic, available area, expected volume of domestic
sewage, and shall comply with all applicable county regulations as well as
those of the State Department of Public Health.
      (2)   The County Board may prohibit installation of sewage disposal
facilities requiring soil absorptions systems where such systems will not
function due to high groundwater, flooding or unsuitable soil characteristics.
The County Board shall require that the subdivider note on the face of the plat
and in any deed of conveyance that soil absorption fields are prohibit in
designated areas. All homes utilizing on-site aeration waste disposal systems
are required to have a maintenance contract with the aeration system inspected
and serviced by a company or individual licensed by the state to install or
service aerobic treatment plants.
   (B)   Any subdivision lots with private sewage disposal systems need to meet
the following criteria:
      (1)   All subdivision plots to be approved after today’s date must
conform to of the Private Sewage Disposal Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code § 905.55,
and the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 255 ILCS 225/;
      (2)   When designing a subsurface seepage system, the absorption capacity
of the soil shall be determined by this division (B)(2) as follows:
         (a)   Soil investigations. Soil investigations shall be conducted in
the following manner:
            1.   Determination of soil characteristics on sites proposed for
development with private sewage disposal systems shall be based on soil boring
data collected by a soil classifier or a state licensed professional engineer;
and
            2.   Minimum lot size shall be one acre.
         (b)   Permits. The following addition of regulations shall apply to
permits. Permits for private sewage disposal systems as described in the
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code.
      (3)   Where soil investigations show suitable conditions, only septic
tanks with subsurface seepage fields installed in accordance with the State
Department of Public Health Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code may
be permitted; and
      (4)   Where soil investigations show unsuitable conditions to utilize
subsurface seepage systems, and if an aerobic treatment plant is installed, the
aerobic unit shall be followed by 200 square feet of subsurface absorption
field per bedroom served.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.113 SOIL INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Soil investigations, conducted and certified in accordance with the
Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/, and Private Sewage
Disposal Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code § 905.55a, shall be required in all areas
where septic tanks or other soil absorption systems are proposed.
   (B)   Soil investigations shall be submitted to secure preliminary plat
approval.
   (C)   There shall be at least three borings for each lot and shall be
conducted at locations which would show all variable conditions which might
affect the treatment of effluent.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.114 LOT SIZES AND DENSITY.
   For lots within 1,000 feet of the water level at normal pool of any lake
used as a public water supply:
   (A)   All lots within subdivisions or portions of subdivisions located
within 1,000 feet of the water level at normal pool of any lake used as a
public water supply shall have a lot size of at least one acre;
   (B)   No building other than boat docks and related storage building shall
be located in any floodplain or flood easement land and all other building
shall be 50 feet or more from the water level at normal pool of any lake used
as a public water supply; and
   (C)   Minimum lot width of an average of 106 feet.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.115 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/, and Private Sewage
Disposal Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code §§ 905.10 et seq., as adopted, amended and
enforced by any agent of the State Department of Public Health shall be
followed in the design and installation of private sewage disposal systems.
Should the County Board adopt its own private sewage disposal ordinance as
provided for by the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, then the County
Health Department shall enforce the ordained codes of private sewage disposal
system design and installation.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.116 SEWER AND WATER UTILITIES-IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All proposed water and sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the
minimum requirement and recommendations of the Environmental Protection Agency
of the state. When a proposed subdivision is reasonably accessible to a public
sewer system and/or water distribution system, the subdivider shall provide the
subdivision with a complete sanitary sewer system and/or water distribution
system to be connected to the proper public systems(s), when a permit can be
secured from the public agency owning the system.
   (B)   Whenever the subdivider provides a private system of sanitary sewers
and a treatment plant, such system and plant shall conform to all standards,
specifications and requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency
and the State Commerce Commission.
   (C)   Where lots cannot, economically or for other reasons, be connected
with a public sewer system, provisions must be made for sanitary sewerage
facilities approved by the County Board in accordance with §
156.112.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.117 SANITARY SEWERS.
   When provided, each lot in the subdivision shall be provided a connection to
the private or public sanitary sewer system as required in §
156.116. The construction of the sewer system shall conform to the approved
plans and specifications and all work shall be properly inspected and approved
by the design engineer. In conventional systems, sewage collection lines shall
not be smaller than eight inches in diameter. Innovative and alternative
systems will be judged on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.118 WATER SYSTEMS.
   When provided, each lot in the subdivision shall be provided with a
connection to the private or public water system as required in §
156.116. The construction of the water system shall conform to the approved
plans and specifications and all work shall be properly inspected and approved
by the County Rural Water Company. Water distribution lines shall not be
smaller than four inches in diameter.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.119 UTILITIES IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   All water and sewer systems, including individual wells located in
floodplain areas, whether public or private, shall be floodproofed to a point
at or above the lines and on-site waste disposals systems may be permitted
providing all manholes or other above ground openings located below the
floodplain are water-tight.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.120 HOUSE SERVICES.
   (A)   House services shall be constructed to connect with the utility
service mains constructed within any street or thoroughfare, to serve each
adjoining lot, tract or building site; such house services shall extend from
the main to a point at least two feet beyond the outside lines of the proposed
roadway pavement in the street, and at least one foot beyond the outside lines
of proposed alley pavement.
   (B)   All such house services connected with utility mains constructed
within any street or thoroughfare, shall be located at the approximate
centerline of each lot, and no deviation shall be made from this requirement
except upon prior approval by the County Engineer.
   (C)   Upon completion of the construction in place of all such house service
connections with utility mains, an accurate map or maps showing the exact
location of all such mains, together with manholes, shut-off valves and other
similar facilities being a part thereof, by distances in feet from street
lines, and of all such house service connection in distances in feet from the
side lot lines, shall be approved by the County Engineer.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.121 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   The subdivider shall construct storm water drainage facilities, which
may include curbs and gutters, catch basins and inlets, storm sewers, road
ditches and open channels as may be required. For storm water drainage
facilities the design of the facilities shall be designed to accommodate the
surface runoff incident to the ten-year design storm by utilization of the
“rational method” or the “scs method” or both. All such facilities are to be of
adequate size and grade to hydraulically accommodate maximum potential volumes
of flow; the type of facility required, the design criteria and the size and
grades to be determined by the Subdivision and Land Use Committee.
      (1)   Cross road culverts must have a minimum diameter of 15 inches or
equivalent. Private entrance culverts must be adequate and have a minimum
diameter of 12 inches and be at least 30 feet long.
      (2)   The agency that will have the maintenance of the street system must
be consulted as to the acceptance of the storm water drainage facilities
system.
      (3)   Storm drainage facilities shall be so designed as to prevent no
hazard to life or property; and the size, type and installation of all storm
water drains and sewers proposed to be constructed shall be in accordance with
the plans and standard specifications approved by a registered engineer and
those provided herein.
   (B)   No plat shall be approved for any subdivision or part thereof which is
subject to periodic flooding or which contains inadequate drainage facilities
or which makes adequate drainage of streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees in writing to make improvements at his or her expense which
will, in the opinion of the County Engineer, make the area safe for human
occupancy and use, and further provides adequate drainage for streets, then the
preliminary and final plat may be approved.
   (C)   No existing ditch, stream, drain, slough, retention basin or drainage
canal shall be deepened, widened, filled, rerouted or filled without permission
from the County Engineer.
   (D)   The drainage system shall be constructed and be operational during
construction; or as approved by the County Engineer.
   (E)   The natural drainage system shall be used as far as is feasible for
the storage and flow of runoff.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.122 ELECTRICAL POWER, TELEPHONE AND CABLE ANTENNA TELEVISION (CATV).
   Electrical, telephone and CATV service lines shall be placed underground in
a subdivision and the conduit or cables shall be located within easements or
public rights-of-way in a manner which will not conflict with other underground
services. The location of such services within or over any public right-of-way
shall be approved by the County Engineer and the Township Highway
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.123 INSPECTION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   All public improvements to be made under the provisions of this chapter
shall be inspected during the course of construction by the County Engineer or
his or her duly appointed representative.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.124 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE OR BOND.
   Final plats shall be neither approved by the County Board nor recorded by
the County Clerk unless the applicable following conditions are met:
   (A)   The improvements intended to be dedicated to the county, township,
other public body or acceptable private entity have been completed, inspected
and accepted prior to such approval; or
   (B)   (1)   A performance guarantee or bond shall be posted by the applicant
with the County Clerk before the final plat is recorded. Such performance
guarantee or bond shall be in an amount one and one-quarter times determined by
the County Engineer as equal to the estimated construction cost of all
improvements intended to be dedicated to the County, other public body or
approved private legal entity.
      (2)   Performance of work necessary to complete construction and
installation of the required improvements to be dedicated to the county, other
public body or approved private legal entity shall be within two years of the
date of approval of the final plat, unless such time is extended by written
agreement between the subdivider and the County Board.
      (3)   If such improvements are not satisfactorily installed within the
time period specified or required, then such guarantee or bond shall be
forfeited by the applicant, and the surety shall be used to pay for the
completion of installing such improvements in accordance with the requirements
specified herein.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.125 RELEASE.
   The bond shall remain in effect until such time as the County Board shall,
by written authorization, release the surety from the obligation of the bond.
This release shall take place only after the improvements have been completed
and accepted by the County Board.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.126 TERM.
   The term of the performance bond shall not exceed two years in duration
subject to the following.
   (A)   (1)   If at the end of the two-year period, all the improvements
reflected by the approved improvements plan(s) have not been completed, the
County Board may agree to extend the terms of the performance bond for a period
not to exceed one additional year at each extension if, after review, such
longer period is necessary to facilitate adequate and coordinated provisions
for transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, playgrounds or other
public requirements.
      (2)   If said improvements have not been completed at the end of the two-
year period or as extended, the County Board may:
         (a)   Require the surety to perform on the bond and pay to the County
such amount as shall be equal to the amount required to complete the
improvements; and
         (b)   Require the developer to submit a new performance guarantee or
bond which has been recalculated in order to allow for any inflation in the
case of constructing improvements.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.127 ELIGIBLE SURETY.
   To be eligible, all sureties shall be approved by the County Treasurer. All
sureties shall be subject to spot audits by the county under the supervision of
the County Treasurer. If the surety fails to comply with any of the provisions
of the performance bond, the surety shall not thereafter be allowed to act
surety for any subdivision improvement within the jurisdiction of the county
for period of two years.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.128 PROVISIONS FOR MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF PRIVATE UTILITIES OR
FACILITIES.
   Physical facilities that have not been dedicated to and accepted by an
existing public agency, adequate provision shall be made for the continuous
maintenance, supervision, operation and reconstruction of such facilities by
the lot owners in the subdivision, subject to the regulations of the Department
of Public Health and the Commerce Commission of the state and the State
Environmental Protection Agency, where applicable.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.129 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Subdivision drainage plans shall be structured so as not to block or
obstruct the natural drainage of adjoining areas.
   (B)   The following shall be the required standards to be observed for the
design of easements in a subdivision.
      (1)   Easements of not less than 20 feet in width shall be provided on
the front of all lot lines, and not less than ten feet in width shall be
provided on each side of all rear lot lines and along side lot lines where
necessary for storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and other mains, and for
electric and telephone lines or for other public utilities. Easements of
greater width may be required along or across lots when necessary for the
extension of main sewers or other utilities or where both water and sewer lines
are located in the same easement.
      (2)   (a)   Adequate easements for storm water drainage shall be
established along any natural drainage channel and in such other locations as
may be necessary to provide satisfactory disposal of storm water from streets,
alleys and all other portions of the subdivision. All necessary drainage
easements shall be furnished at no expense to the county and meet the following
minimum standards:
            1.   Top channel widths from zero feet to 50 feet require top width
plus 25 feet; and
            2.   Over 50-foot top channel widths require top widths plus 25
feet each side.
         (b)   Wider drainage easements may be required as is necessary to
permit proper construction of drainage facilities based on the drainage system
plan of the area. No subdivision shall block or obstruct the natural drainage
of an adjoining area.
      (3)   Pedestrian easements, not less than ten feet wide, may be required
where deemed essential to provide circulation, or access to schools,
playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other community facilities.
      (4)   No tree, shrub or building shall be placed or erected in any
easement for utility or drainage purposes or within the right-of-way of any
street, except at the owner’s risk as to all costs for demolition, removal or
reconstruction, and the beneficiaries of the easement rights may have free
access to and use of the easements at any time.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.130 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks shall be no more than 1,000 feet in length, except as the
County Board considers necessary to secure efficient use of land or desired
features of the street pattern.
   (B)   All blocks, whenever it is deemed essential by the Code Administrator
to provide access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers and other community
facilities, shall have a crosswalk with a right-of-way of at least ten feet in
width near the center of the block.
   (C)   The length, width and shapes of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to building sites, land use, access, safety and convenience.
   (D)   Where a subdivision adjoins a primary or higher type roadway, the
greater dimension of the block shall generally front or back upon such highway
to avoid unnecessary multiplicity of points of ingress or egress.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.131 LOTS.
   Lot area and dimensions shall conform to the following requirements.
   (A)   Every lot shall have an area of not less than 15,000 square feet and a
minimum width of 100 feet at the building line; provided, however that in lots
which are not served by a public or private sanitary sewer system or public
water system shall meet the requirements of §
156.112.
   (B)   Lots shall provide for a minimum setback of all structures of 25 feet
from the lot lines parallel to frontage streets, 25 feet from lot lines
parallel to side streets, and then ten feet from all other property lines,
easement lines or alleys.
   (C)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory and desirable building sites, property related to
topography and the character of surrounding development.
   (D)   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street
right-of-way lines and radial to curved street right-of-way lines except where
a variation of this rule will provide a better street and lot design.
   (E)   All remnants of lots below minimum lot area left over after
subdividing a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots rather than being
allowed to remain as unusable land.
   (F)   Lots with double frontage should be avoided where possible. Corner
lots and lots with double frontage shall have extra dimension sufficient to
permit the establishment of front building or setback lines on the adjoining
streets.
   (G)   The subdividing of the land shall be such as to provide each lot with
access to a public street.
   (H)   In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, wetlands, steep slopes, watercourses,
historic spots or similar conditions, and plans adjusted to preserve those
which will add attractiveness, safety and stability to the proposed
development.
   (I)   No more than four lots shall be served by a private drive.
   (J)   (1)   Flag lots are permitted with the special approval of the
Subdivision and Land Use Committee in order to permit development of backland
areas while still maintaining their rural character.
      (2)   Requirements for flag lots are, at a minimum:
         (a)   A minimum of 20 feet and maximum of 50 feet is required for
entrance way;
         (b)   Only one flag lot is permitted for each right-of-way; and
         (c)   Rights-of-way should be a minimum distance apart of at least the
minimum lost width in the particular zone.
   (K)   All residential lots shall be separated from railroad right-of-way by
a 25-foot buffer strip, which may be in the form of added depth or width of
lots backing on or siding on the railroad right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.132 PUBLIC RESERVATIONS.
   When a school board, park board or governing body of a county or
municipality goes on record as desiring to purchase ground in the subdivision
for a school, park or other public purpose, such area shall be reserved for
acquisition within a 12-month period. If within this 12-month period, an
acquisition price cannot be agreed upon or condemnation proceedings have not
been instituted, the owner or subdivider may subdivide, sell or dispose of said
ground.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
VARIANCES
§ 156.145 CONDITIONS OF VARIATION.
   The County Board may grant a variance from the provisions of this chapter
provided, in each case, the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Any variance or exception shall comply with the intent and purpose
declared in §
156.004;
   (B)   Special conditions and circumstances are present which are peculiar to
the land, structure or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or building in the same area;
   (C)   Literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would deprive
the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same area
under the terms of this chapter;
   (D)   The special conditions or circumstances do not result from the actions
of the applicant;
   (E)   Granting the variance requested will not confer on the applicant any
special privilege that is denied by this chapter to owners of other lands,
structures in the same area; and
   (F)   The variance requested is the minimum variance which would alleviate
the hardship.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.146 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   The following procedures shall be utilized to process a variance.
   (A)   The subdivider shall apply in writing for such a variance or exception
upon filing the preliminary plat with the Code Administrator.
   (B)   The Code Administrator shall notify the Chairperson of the Subdivision
and Land Use Committee, and shall submit the plat and variance request along
with his or her written opinion to said Committee within ten county working
days after receipt of plat and variance request.
   (C)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall meet and shall make its
decisions within 60 days from the date of notification by the Code
Administrator.
   (D)   Any variance granted shall be in writing and clearly state all
conditions requiring the variance and shall set forth the exact terms of the
variance; a copy of which shall be attached to the preliminary and final plat
and included in the minutes of the Subdivision and Land Use Committee with the
reasoning set forth upon which the variance was considered justified.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
VACATIONS AND ADOPTION
§ 156.160 PLAT VACATION.
   (A)   Any plat may be vacated by the owner of the premises at any time
before the sale of any lot therein, by a written instrument to which copy of
the plat is attached, declaring it to be vacated.
   (B)   If there are public service facilities in the highways, streets,
alleys and other public ways and in easements shown on said plat, the
instrument shall reserve to the public body or public utility owning such
facilities, the property, rights-of-way and easements necessary for continuing
public service by means of those facilities and for the maintenance renewal and
reconstruction of the same.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.161 SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS.
   The written vacation instrument shall be accompanied by the following plats
and plans:
   (A)   Two copies of the plat of subdivision, on which there shall be shown
the part thereof, or street, alley, easement or part thereof, to be vacated;
   (B)   A certificate signed by the County Clerk certifying that there are no
delinquent general taxes, no unpaid current general taxes, no unpaid forfeited
taxes, and no redeemable tax sales against any of the land included in the
property to be vacated; and
   (C)   When lots have been sold, the written vacation instrument shall be
signed by all the owners of lots in the plat.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.162 APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   The vacation request must be approved by the appropriate following person(s)
or agency(s):
   (A)   The County Board;
   (B)   Township Highway Commissioner having jurisdiction;
   (C)   The County Highway Engineer; and
   (D)   The District Engineer of the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.163 COUNTY BOARD REVIEW.
   The County Board shall determine or require the following if any public or
private rights or privileges are affected by the proposed vacation;
   (A)   The County Board may require the petitioner(s) to furnish bond in an
amount to be determined by the County Board, indemnifying the county for any
suit which may be filed for damages sustained by other owner(s) due to such
vacation; and
   (B)   The County Board may require that the county be reimbursed by the
owner(s) of property abutting upon a street, alley, easement or part thereof,
to be vacated, in an amount which will accrue to such owner(s) by reason of the
vacation.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.164 VACATION RECORDED.
   When any plat or part thereof is vacated, the Recorder in whose office the
plat is recorded or filed as aforesaid, shall, upon the recording of such
vacation, write in plain letters across the plat or part so vacated the word
“vacated”, and shall also make a reference on the same to the volume and page
in which the instrument of vacation is recorded.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.165 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended, supplemented or repealed by a majority vote of
the County Board.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.166 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The County Board, by resolution, shall appoint the County Sheriff the
enforcing officer of this chapter, and it shall be his or her duty to enforce
the provisions hereof. The enforcing officer may call upon any department or
official of the county to furnish him or her with such information and
assistance as he or she may deem necessary for the observance or enforcement of
this chapter, and it shall be the duty of such Department or Officer to furnish
such information and assistance whenever required.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
§ 156.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation who constructs any public
improvements or portion thereof in violation of the provision of this chapter
shall be, upon conviction, fined not more than $500 for each offense, and each
day of the continued violation shall constitute a separate additional
violation.
   (B)   Fines. Any person who shall sell or offer for sale, lease or offer for
lease, while this chapter is in effect, any lot or block or blocks, within the
area of jurisdiction of the county, or any re-subdivision of any block or lot
therein, before all of the requirements of this chapter have been complied
with, shall be fined not less that $25 nor more than $500 for each lot, block
or part thereof so sold, offered for sale, leased or offered for lease.
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX A: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION DIRECTIONS FOR A-1
   (1)   The plat approval for subdivisions is begun in the office of the Code
Administrator. A preliminary application is issued to the person wishing to
subdivide, who must follow the guidelines on A-1 (both requirements and
necessary reviews).
   (2)   Once the preliminary application is completed, the Code Administrator
places it on the next Subdivision and Land Use Committee agenda, publishes the
notice and sends a letter to all contiguous owners.
   (3)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee sends their approval or
disapproval within 60 days to the County Board.
   (4)   With approval from the Board, the plat may be finalized by having all
necessary signatures, notice of school district involved and any other needed
documentation. This is then again brought to the Subdivision and Land Use
Committee; they send their approval within 90 days to the County Board. Upon
approval by the Board, the plat can be recorded.
   (5)   If any change is necessary for the plat, the process begins again.
A-1
Preliminary Plat Application
Subdivision Name _____________________________ Case No. ___________
Requirement Section Yes                        No N/A
A-1
Preliminary Plat Application
Subdivision Name _____________________________             Case No. ___________
Requirement                              Section       Yes No N/A
Two copies of written request for        156.037(B)(1)       
preliminary review
Eight prints of preliminary plat and     156.037(B)(2)       
required documents
Payment of review fee, copy or receipt   156.064(B)          
Name of proposed subdivision             156.049(A)          
Key map showing relation of subdivision  156.049(B)          
to other developments
Name of owner, developer and registered  156.049(C)          
surveyor/engineer
Existing and proposed streets, rights-   156.049(D)          
of-way and other data
Tract boundary lines, showing lengths,   156.049(E)          
directions and references
All lot lines adjacent to and abutting   156.049(F)          
subdivision with identifications
Layout of proposed lots with dimensions, 156.049(G)          
areas, and identifications
Parcels to be dedicated to public use(s) 156.049(H)          
and its use(s)
Location and size of all existing public
utilities and drainage within or         156.049(I)          
adjacent to proposed subdivision
Location and size of all proposed        156.049(J)          
utilities to be installed
Easements, existing and proposed,        156.049(K)          
locations, widths and use
Gross and net area of subdivision,
street rights-of-way and other parcels   156.049(L)          
reserved for common use
Topography map with contour lines as     156.049(M)          
required
Locations of watercourses, ponding       156.049(N)          
areas, drainage and flood area
Drawn to scale 50 ft. to 1 in. or 100    156.049(O)          
ft. to 1 in.
North arrow and date of plat             156.049(P)          
Entire development submitted for         156.049(Q)          
approval (no stage approvals)
“PLAT NOT FOR RECORD” printed upon pl156.049(R)          
Locations of existing structures and     156.049(S)          
other features
Landscaping plan, proposed signage for   156.049(T)          
advertising
Soil information and map (when required) 156.049(U)          
Soil investigation test and locations    156.049(V)          
(when required)
Reviews                                                      
County Engineer review                   156.038             
IDOT review (when required)              156.039             
Township Road District review            156.040             
Soil and Water Conservation District     156.041             
review
911 Coordinator review                   156.043             
Submittal to municipality if within 1.5  156.048             
miles of limits
Subdivision and Land Use Committee       156.044             
action
County Health Department review          156.042             
 
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX B: SUBDIVISION AND LAND USE COMMITTEE CERTIFICATION
   The proposed plan of subdivision as shown on this plat and accompanying
documents, has received tentative approval by the Subdivision and Land Use
Committee.
This _______________ day of_____________, 20_______
Signed: ________________________________________________
(Chairperson)
Signed: ________________________________________________
         (County Clerk and Recorder of Deeds)
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX C: COUNTY BOARD CERTIFICATION
   The proposed plan of subdivision as shown on this plat and accompanying
documents, has received tentative approval by the Jersey County Board and said
Board is now ready to receive the final plat for consideration.
This _______________ day of_____________, 20_______
Signed: ___________________________________________________
               (Chairperson of the Board)
Signed: ___________________________________________________
            (County Clerk and Recorder of Deeds)
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX D: OWNER’S CERTIFICATION
I/we being the owner(s) of _____________________________________________ have
caused the said tract to be subdivided and surveyed in the manner shown, and
said subdivision is to be hereafter known as
__________________________________________________________________.
Building lines are established as shown thereon, utility easements, if any, are
established for the installation and maintenance of all public utilities. The
rights-of-way, if any, shown on this plat are hereby dedicated to the use of
the public forever including the release and waiver of the right of homestead
under the Homestead Exemption Laws of the State of Illinois. Building in this
subdivision shall be governed by the declaration of covenants and restrictions
for this subdivision. This subdivision is in _________________school district.
I/we, the undersigned, do hereby certify that to the best of our knowledge and
belief the drainage of surface waters will not be changed by the construction
of such subdivision or any part thereof, or, that if surface water drainage
will be changed, adequate provision has been made for collection and diversion
of such surface waters into public areas, or drains which the subdivider has a
right to use, and that such surface waters will not be deposited on the
property of adjoining land owner’s in such concentrations as may cause damage
to the adjoining property because of the construction of the subdivision.
Dated this _______________ day of_____________, 20_______
Owner: ______________________________________________
Owner: ______________________________________________
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX E: NOTARY PUBLIC CERTIFICATION
STATE OF ILLINOIS    )
                  ) SS
COUNTY OF _________)
I, ___________________________, a Notary Public in and for the County
aforesaid, do hereby certify that
_________________________________________________________________ are
personally known to me to be the same person(s) whose name(s) are subscribed to
the foregoing instruments, and he/she/they appeared before me this day in
person and acknowledged that he/she/they signed and sealed the same as his/her/
their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth,
including the release of waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and seal this _______________ day of_____________,
20_______
___________________________________         ___________________________________
Notary                                 Expiration Date
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX F: SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATION
I, the undersigned Illinois professional land surveyor, do hereby declare that
to the best of my knowledge and belief that this is a correct representation of
a survey made under my supervision at the request of and for the exclusive
benefit of ______________________ (owners), for the purpose of subdividing the
property into lots as shown. The land is not within the corporate limits of any
city or town which as adopted a city plan and is exercising the special powers
authorized by Division 12 of Article 11 of the Illinois Municipal Code, as now
or hereafter amended.
I further certify that the parcels included in this record of deed are not
located in the special flood hazard area identified for the County of Jersey,
Illinois by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map, Panel No. ________________, dated ________________.
Dated at Jerseyville, Illinois this _______________ day of_____________,
20_______
Signed:__________________________________________________
                           Surveyor
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX G: COUNTY CLERK CERTIFICATION
I, ____________________, County Clerk of Jersey County, Illinois, hereby
certify that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against any real estate
included within this plat.
_________________________________________   Date:
______________________________
         County Clerk
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX H: 911 COORDINATOR CERTIFICATION
I, _______________________, Jersey County 911 Coordinator do hereby certify
that the street/road/highway names and numbering system on the attached plat
have been reviewed and approved for use.
_________________________________________   Date:
______________________________
            911 Coordinator
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX I: COUNTY ENGINEER CERTIFICATION
I, ________________________, County Engineer of Jersey County, do hereby
certify that the attached plat has been examined by me, as set forth in the
regulations governing plats of subdivided land adopted by the County Board of
Jersey County, Illinois.
Dated this _______________ day of_____________A.D., 20_______
_________________________________________________________
               County Engineer
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX J: PRIVATE ROAD OR STREET CERTIFICATION
I/we _____________________, owner(s) of tract _________________________ and the
private road or street shown on the plat hereon do hereby declare that said
private road or street is not dedicated to the public but shall remain private,
to be maintained by and for the adjoining lot owners until such time that said
street(s) are accepted for dedication by the appropriate Township or Jersey
County, Illinois.
Signed: ________________________________   Signed:
________________________________
Dated: _______________________________   Dated:
_________________________________
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX K: FINAL PLAT CERTIFICATION
   [missing material]
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
APPENDIX L: FORM FOR APPROVAL OF THE COUNTY BOARD
Approved the _______________ day of_____________, 20_______
Signed: _________________________________________________
                  Chairperson of the Board
Signed: _________________________________________________
                     County Clerk
(Ord. passed 10-14-2003; Ord. passed 11-10-2003; Ord. passed 11-14-2004; Ord.
passed 9-11-2007)
 
CHAPTER 157: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Applicability
   
157.04   Prohibition
   
157.05   Application
   
157.06   Design and installation
   
157.07   Operation
   
157.08   Liability insurance and indemnification
   
157.09   Complaint resolution
   
157.10   Use of public roads
   
157.11   Applicable fees and special use application
   
157.12   County Code Administrator responsibilities
   
157.13   Public hearing
   
157.14   Building permit procedure
   
157.15   Enforcement and inspections
   
157.16   Decommissioning security costs
   
157.17   Remedies
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the commercial construction,
installation, and operation of wind energy conversion systems or other
renewable energy technologies in unincorporated Jersey County that promote
economic development and ensure the protection of health, safety, and welfare
while also avoiding adverse impacts to important areas such as agricultural
lands, endangered species habitats, conservation lands, and other sensitive
lands. This chapter governs the siting of wind energy conversion system
facilities and substations that generate electricity to be sold to wholesale or
retail markets. This chapter does not apply to residential construction and is
not intended to replace safety, health, or environmental requirements contained
in other applicable codes, standards, or ordinances. The provisions of this
chapter shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or
federal law.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The entity who submits to the county an application for the
siting and operation of any WECS or substation. All references to APPLICANT in
this chapter shall include the APPLICANT'S successors-in-interest and assigns,
which includes a WECS permittee (as defined below).
   COMMERCIAL OPERATION DATE. The calendar date on which the WECS project
produces power for commercial sale, not including test power.
   COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY FACILITY. A wind energy conversion facility of equal
or greater than 500 kilowatts in total nameplate generating capacity. Also
referred to herein as "wind energy conversion system" or "WECS" or "WECS
project".
   FINANCIAL ASSURANCE or FINANCIAL SECURITY or DECOMMISSION SECURITY.
Assurance from a credit-worthy party, examples of which include a surety bond
(e.g., performance and payment bond), trust instrument, cash escrow, or
irrevocable letter of credit.
   METEOROLOGICAL TOWER. Those towers which are erected primarily to measure
wind speed and direction plus other data relevant to siting and operation of a
WECS project. For purposes of this chapter, METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS do not
include towers and equipment used by airports, the Illinois Department of
Transportation, or other similar applications or government agencies, to
monitor weather conditions.
   NONPARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is not a participating
property.
   NONPARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on nonparticipating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the WECS project is filed with the county.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED. A written document, named as such, stating that the
applicant expresses an intent to commence construction activities on a WECS
project and identifying the date on which the construction activities are
scheduled to commence.
   OCCUPIED COMMUNITY BUILDING. Any one or more of the following buildings that
is existing and occupied on the date that the application for a permit to
develop the WECS project is filed with the county: a school, place of worship,
day care facility, public library, or community center.
   OPERATOR. The person or entity responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of the wind energy conversion system, including any third-party
subcontractors. The OPERATOR must be a qualified wind power professional. All
references to OPERATOR in this chapter shall include the OPERATOR'S successors-
in-interest and assigns.
   OWNER. The person or entity or entities with an equity interest in a wind
energy conversion system, including their respective successors-in-interest and
assigns. The OWNER does not mean: (i) the property owner from whom land is
leased for locating a wind energy conversion system (unless the property owner
has an equity interest in a wind energy conversion system); or (ii) any person
holding a security interest in a wind energy conversion system solely to secure
an extension of credit, or a person foreclosing on such security interest,
provided that after foreclosure, such person seeks to sell a wind energy
conversion system at the earliest practicable date. This definition includes
the definition of facility owner as defined in 55 ILCS 5/5-12020.
   PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that is the subject of a written
agreement between a facility owner and the owner of the real property that
provides the facility owner an easement, option, lease, or license to use the
real property for the purpose of constructing a WECS project or supporting
facilities. PARTICIPATING PROPERTY also includes real property that is owned by
a facility owner for the purpose of constructing a WECS project or supporting
facilities.
   PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE. A residence that is located on participating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the WECS project is filed with the county.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A qualified individual who is licensed as a
professional engineer in any state in the United States. Where a structural
engineer is required to take some action under the terms of this chapter, a
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER may serve as the structural engineer if he or she has the
appropriate structural engineering certification.
   PROTECTED LANDS. Real property that is subject to a permanent conservation
right consistent with the Real Property Conservation Rights Act, or registered
or designated as a nature preserve, buffer or land and water reserve under the
Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
   PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS. Land owned in fee title by county, state or
federal agencies and managed specifically for conservation purposes, including
but not limited to county, state and federal parks, state and federal wildlife
management areas, state scientific and natural areas, and federal wildlife
refuges and waterfowl protection areas. PUBLIC CONSERVATION LANDS do not
include private lands upon which conservation easements have been sold to
government agencies or non-profit conservation organizations. PUBLIC
CONSERVATION LANDS also do not include private lands for which the owners have
entered into contractual relationships with the government or non-profit
conservation organizations for conservation purposes.
   SPECIAL USE APPLICATION. An application approved by the Subdivision and Land
Use Committee, after a hearing, allowing a particular use at a specified
location subject to compliance with certain specified special conditions as may
be required by the Subdivision and Land Use Committee.
   SUBSTATION. The apparatus that collects and connects the electrical
collection system of the WECS(s) and increases the voltage for connection with
the utility's transmission lines.
   SUPPORTING FACILITIES. The transmission lines, substations, access roads,
meteorological towers, storage containers, and equipment associated with the
generation and storage of electricity by the WECS.
   WECS APPLICANT. An applicant who applies for and receives a special use
application approval under this chapter for the siting and operation of any
WECS or substation. All references to a WECS APPLICANT in this chapter shall
include a WECS APPLICANT'S successors-in-interest and assigns.
   WECS BUILDING PERMIT. A permit necessary for the commencement of work
performed toward the construction, erection, or installation of an approved
WECS, substation or operations and maintenance building in connection with a
WECS project. A WECS BUILDING PERMIT may be issued by the county after a WECS
project has obtained a special use application approval from the Subdivision
and Land Use committee in addition to the County Board determining that all
conditions, if any, have been satisfied that are imposed by the special use
application. The WECS BUILDING PERMIT shall require the Jersey County Code
Administrator to deliver a written "notice to proceed" for the WECS project
prior to commencement of construction of the WECS project. The term
"commencement of construction", as used in this chapter, includes any site
development work (e.g., demolition, grubbing, grading, excavation, road work,
construction of project-related structures and infrastructure improvements, and
the like) regarding the WECS project.
   WECS TOWER or WIND TOWER. Includes wind turbine tower, nacelle, and the top
surface of the WECS blades.
   WECS TOWER HEIGHT. The distance from the rotor blade at its highest point to
the top surface of the WECS foundation.
   WIND TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts the
kinetic energy of moving wind into electrical energy through the use of
airfoils or similar devices to capture the wind.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter governs the siting of WECS and substations that generate
electricity to be sold to wholesale or retail markets.
   (B)   Owners of WECS with an aggregate generating capacity of 0.5MW or less
who locate the WECS(s) on their own property are not subject to this chapter.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.04 PROHIBITION.
   No WECS or substation governed by this chapter shall be constructed,
erected, installed, or located within the county, unless prior siting approval
has been obtained for each individual WECS or for a group of WECSs under a
joint siting application pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.05 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by
personnel of the Jersey County Code Administrator office (herein referred to as
"Code Official"), The applicant must submit the following information ten
business days prior to the submittal of the special use application for a wind
energy conversion system. The applicant is required to submit 25 copies, one
original full size application package of all required documentation and one
application with all exhibits submitted electronically, to the Code Official,
together with the appropriate filing fee. The application shall include the
following:
   (A)   Site plan with existing conditions showing the following:
      (1)   A WECS project summary including, to the extent available:
         (a)   A general description of the project, including:
            1.   Its approximate overall nameplate generating capacity;
            2.   The potential equipment manufacturer(s);
            3.   Types(s) of WECS(s);
            4.   The number of WECS and the plate generating capacity of each
WECS;
            5.   The maximum height of the WECS tower(s) and the maximum
diameter of the WECS(s) rotor(s);
            6.   The number of substations;
            7.   A project site plan, project phasing plan and project
construction timeline plan; and
            8.   The general location of the project; and
         (b)   A description of the applicant, owner and operator, including
their respective business structures;
      (2)   Structural engineer-stamped plans for all work that is going to be
completed;
      (3)   The name(s), address(es), and phone numbers(s) of the applicant(s),
owner and operator, and all property owner(s), if known, and documentation
demonstrating land ownership or legal control of the property;
      (4)   Existing property lines and property lines extending 100 feet from
the exterior boundaries, including the names of adjacent property owners and
current use of those properties;
      (5)   Existing public and private roads, showing widths of the roads and
any associated easements;
      (6)   Location and size of any abandoned wells or sewage treatment
systems;
      (7)   Existing buildings and any impervious surfaces;
      (8)   A contour map showing topography at two foot intervals. A contour
map of surrounding properties may also be required;
      (9)   Existing vegetation (list type and percent coverage, i.e.,
cropland/plowed fields, grassland, wooded areas, and the like);
      (10)   A copy of the current FEMA FIRM map that shows the subject
property, the 100 year flood elevation and any regulated flood protection
elevation, if available;
      (11)   Surface water drainage patterns; and
      (12)   The location of any subsurface drainage tiles.
   (B)   Site plan with proposed conditions showing the following:
      (1)   Location and spacing of wind energy conversion systems;
      (2)   Location of access roads and access points and rights-of-way that
will be utilized for both the construction and operation of the WECS;
      (3)   Planned location of underground or overhead electric lines
connecting the wind energy conversion system to a building, substation or other
electric load;
      (4)   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building or
substation that is to be the connection point to the WECS;
      (5)   Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the proposed
wind energy conversion system and its relationship to structure on adjacent
land;
      (6)   The location of any wetlands, floodplain, drainage structures
including surface ditches and subsurface drainage lines, underground mines,
scenic and natural areas within 1,500 feet of the proposed WECS, and the layout
of all structures within the geographical boundaries of any applicable setback;
      (7)   The location of all participating and nonparticipating residences,
occupied community buildings, parcel boundary lines, public access roads and
turnout locations, substation(s), operations and maintenance buildings,
permanent meteorological towers, electrical cabling from WECS tower to the
substation(s), ancillary equipment, and third party transmission lines;
      (8)   All determinations of no hazard to air navigation from the Federal
Aviation Administration;
      (9)   All required studies, reports, certifications, and approvals
demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (10)   An agricultural impact mitigation agreement (AIMA) executed
between the applicant and the Illinois Department of Agriculture;
      (11)   Any other information normally required by the county as part of
its permitting requirements for siting buildings or other structures;
      (12)   Waivers from the setback requirements executed by the occupied
community building owners and/or the nonparticipating property owners bearing a
file stamp from the County Recorder of Deeds office confirming that the waiver
was recorded against title to the affected real property;
      (13)   Results and recommendations from the Illinois Department of
Natural Resources obtained through the ecological compliance assessment tool or
a comparable successor tool;
      (14)   Results of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's
information for planning and consulting environmental review or a comparable
successor tool that is consistent with the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service's land-based wind energy guidelines;
      (15)   Information demonstrating that the WECS project will avoid
protected lands;
      (16)   Any other information requested by the county or the county
consultants that is necessary to evaluate the siting application and operation
of the WECS project and to demonstrate that the WECS project meets each of the
regulations in this chapter, including the special use application standards
set forth below;
      (17)   Material changes to the application are not permitted once the
notice of the public hearing has been published, unless requested or permitted
by the county; and
      (18)   The applicant shall submit 25 copies of the special use
application to the county, and at least one copy in electronic format.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.06 DESIGN AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Design safety certification.
      (1)   WECSs shall conform to applicable industry standards, including
those of the American National Standards Institute ("ANSI"). Applicants shall
submit certificates of design compliance that the equipment manufacturers have
obtained from Underwriters Laboratories ("UL"), Det Norske Verltas ("DNV"),
Germanischer Lloyd Wind Energie ("CGL"), or an equivalent third party. All
turbines shall be new equipment commercially available; no used or experimental
equipment shall be used in the WEC project without the approval of a variance
by the County Code Administrator.
      (2)   Following the granting of siting approval under this chapter, a
structural engineer shall certify, as part of the WECS building permit
application process, that the foundation and tower design of the WECS is within
accepted professional standards, given local soil, subsurface and climate
conditions.
   (B)   Control and brakes. All WECSs shall be equipped with a redundant
braking system. This includes both aerodynamic overspeed controls (including
variable pitch, tip tilt, and other similar systems) and mechanical brakes;
mechanical brakes shall be operated in a fail-safe mode. Stall regulation shall
not be considered a sufficient braking system for overspeed protection.
   (C)   Electrical components. All electrical components of the WECS shall
conform to applicable local, state, and national codes, and relevant national
and international standards (e.g. ANSI and International Electrical
Commission).
   (D)   Aesthetics and lighting. The following items are recommended standards
to mitigate visual impact:
      (1)   Coatings and coloring. Towers and blades shall be painted white or
gray or another non-reflective, unobtrusive color.
      (2)   Turbine consistency. To the extent feasible, the WECS project shall
consist of turbines of similar design and size, including tower height.
Further, all turbines shall rotate in the same direction. Turbines shall also
be consistent in color and direction with nearby facilities.
      (3)   Lighting. WECS projects shall utilize minimal lighting that is
compliant with the applicable FAA regulations, as amended by the FAA. To the
extent that such tower lighting is available, and is approved by the FAA for a
WECS project, the applicant shall install Aircraft Detection Lighting Systems
("ADLS") or other similar technology to reduce light pollution and visual
impacts caused by the WECS towers.
      (4)   Intra-project power and communication lines. All power lines used
to collect power from individual turbines and all communication lines shall be
buried underground at a depth in accordance with the agricultural impact
mitigation agreement until same reach the property line or a substation
adjacent to the property line.
   (E)   Warnings.
      (1)   A reasonably visible warning sign concerning voltage must be placed
at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations, and at all
entrances to the wind towers.
      (2)   Visible, reflective, colored objects, such as flags, plastic
sleeves, reflectors, or tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guy wires
and along the guy wires up to a height of 15 feet from the ground.
   (F)   Climb prevention. All WECS towers must be unclimbable by design or
protected by anti-climbing devices such as:
      (1)   Fences with locking portals at least six feet high; or
      (2)   Anti-climbing devices 12 feet vertically from the base of the WECS
tower.
   (G)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   WECS towers shall be sited as follows, with setback distances
measured from the center of the base of the WECS tower:
         (a)   Occupied community buildings: 2.1 times the maximum blade tip
height of the WECS tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the
structure;
         (b)   Participating residences: 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the WECS tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the structure;
         (c)   Nonparticipating residences: 2.11 times the maximum blade tip
height of the WECS tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the
structure;
         (d)   Boundary lines of participating property: none;
         (e)   Boundary lines of nonparticipating property: 1.1 times the
maximum blade tip height of the WECS tower to the nearest point on the property
line of the nonparticipating property;
         (f)   Public road rights-of way: 1.1 times the maximum blade tip
height of the WECS tower to the center point of the public road right-of-way;
         (g)   Overhead communications and electric transmission and
distribution facilities (not including overhead utility service lines to
individual houses or outbuildings): 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height of
the WECS tower to the nearest edge of the property line, easement, or right-of-
way containing the overhead line;
         (h)   Overhead utility service lines to individual houses or
outbuildings: none; and
         (i)   Fish and Wildlife Areas and Illinois Nature Preserve Commission
protected lands: 2.1 times the maximum blade tip height of the WECS tower to
the nearest point on the property line of the fish and wildlife area or
protected land.
      (2)   The setback requirements may be waived by the written consent of
the owner(s) of each affected property. The applicant does not need to obtain a
variance from the county upon waiver by the property owner of the setback
requirement. Any waiver of any of the above setback requirements shall run with
the land and be recorded with the Jersey County Recorder's Office.
   (H)   Compliance with additional regulations. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to preempt other applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   (I)   Site assessment. To ensure that the subsurface conditions of the site
will provide proper support for the WECS towers and soil restoration, the
applicant, at its expense, shall provide soil and geotechnical boring reports
to the County Code Administrator with respect to each WECS tower location as
part of its WECS building permit. The applicant shall follow the guidelines for
conservation practices and impact mitigation submitted by the County Soil and
Water Conservation District (or equivalent regulatory agency). The applicant
shall submit grading plans for the proposed substations for review and comment
by the County Soil and Water Conservation District prior to the issuance of any
WECS building permit for the construction of said substations.
   (J)   Communications analysis; interference.
      (1)   The applicant, at its expense, shall have a third party, qualified
professional (after submission of résumé and relevant work experience) conduct
an appropriate analysis of the television reception documenting the television
stations that are received within one and one-half miles of the footprint of
the WECS project. The results of said study shall be public record and will
serve as a base line reading for television reception conditions prior to the
construction of the WECS project and shall be submitted as part of the special
use application.
      (2)   The applicant, at its expense, shall have a third party, qualified
professional (after submission of résumé and relevant work experience), conduct
a communications analysis that indicates that the 911 communications, emergency
communications or official county and local municipal communications reception
shall not be negatively impacted or influenced by the proposed wind power
facility. Said communication analysis shall be a public record and shall be
submitted as part of the special use application.
      (3)   The applicant and the operator, at the applicant's expense, shall
take immediate actions to minimize or mitigate interference with
electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone, microwaves or
television signals and to eliminate any such interference that impacts local
government public safety (police, fire, emergency medical services, emergency
management services, 911 dispatch) communications caused by the operation of
the WECS. The applicant shall provide the applicable microwave transmission
providers and local emergency service provider(s) (911 operators) copies of the
WECS project summary and site plan, as set forth in §
157.05(B). To the extent that the above provider(s) demonstrate a likelihood of
interference with its communications resulting from the WECS(s), the applicant
and operator, at applicant's expense, shall take reasonable measures to
minimize and mitigate such anticipated interference and with regard to
interference with local government public safety.
      (4)   If, after construction of the WECS, the applicant (WECS permittee)
or operator receives a written complaint related to interference with local
broadcast residential television, the applicant (WECS permittee) shall take
commercially reasonable steps to respond to the complaint. A summary of
complaint and subsequent response from applicant shall be forwarded to the
Jersey County Code Administrator for review. Once the construction is complete
and a television reception complaint is received by the applicant (WECS
permittee), who will have 30 calendar days to verify the complaint, the
applicant (WECS permittee) will be given 15 calendar days to respond, in
writing (validation date). Said response shall be addressed and forwarded to
both the Jersey County Code Administrator and the complainant. Such response
shall include but not be limited to the following: an acknowledgment that a
complaint was made and evaluated by the applicant (WECS permittee). If the
complaint is considered valid by the applicant (WECS permittee), an explanation
shall be provided, including a timeline, as to what the applicant (WECS
permittee) intends to do about the complaint. The applicant (WECS permittee) of
the wind power facility will be given an additional 15 calendar days from the
validation date to resolve said TV reception issue. If the complaint is
considered invalid by the applicant (WECS permittee), an explanation shall be
provided, including supporting documentation and expert opinions, as to why the
applicant (WECS permittee) believes the complaint is not valid. Television
reception complaints must be filed within six months from the date each wind
turbine generator goes online.
   (K)   Noise levels. Noise levels from each WECS or WECS project shall be in
compliance with applicable Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) regulations.
The applicant shall submit the manufacturer's wind turbine sound power level
characteristics and other relevant data regarding wind turbine noise
characteristics necessary for a competent noise analysis. The applicant,
through the use of a qualified professional, shall appropriately demonstrate
compliance with the applicable noise requirements in its special use permit
application,
   (L)   Agricultural impact mitigation. Pursuant to 505 ILCS 147/15(a), the
applicant, at its expense, shall enter into an agricultural impact mitigation
agreement with the Illinois Department of Agriculture prior to any public
hearing required before a siting decision on the WEC project application. The
agricultural impact mitigation plan must be approved by the Illinois Department
of Agriculture prior to the acceptance by Jersey County. All impacted
agricultural land, whether impacted during construction, operation, or
decommissioning activities, must, at a minimum, be remediated by the applicant
pursuant to the terms of the agricultural impact mitigation agreement with the
Illinois Department of Agriculture. The applicant shall submit the executed
agricultural impact mitigation agreement to the county as part of the special
use permit application.
   (M)   Avian and wildlife study. The applicant, at its expense, shall have a
third party, qualified professional (after submission of résumé and relevant
work experience) conduct an avian and wildlife impact study and submit said
study to the county as part of the special use permit application. The avian
and wildlife impact study must be approved by the Illinois Department of
Natural Resources prior to acceptance by Jersey County. Each WECS or WECS
project shall be located, designed, constructed, and operated so as to avoid
and if necessary, mitigate the impacts to wildlife.
   (N)   As-built map and plans. Within 60 calendar days of completion of
construction of the WECS project, the applicant or operator shall deliver "as-
built" maps, site plan and engineering plans for the WECS project that have
been signed and stamped by a professional engineer and a licensed surveyor.
   (O)   Engineer's certificate. The WECS project engineer's certificate shall
be completed by a structural engineer registered in the State of Illinois or by
a professional engineer with a certification from a structural engineer
registered in the State of Illinois; shall certify that the WECS tower and
foundation design is compatible with and appropriate for each turbine design
proposed to be installed; and shall certify that the specific soils and
subsurface conditions at the site can support the apparatus, given local soil,
subsurface and climate conditions. All commercially installed wind turbines
must utilize self-supporting, tubular towers. The WECS project engineer's
certificate shall be a public record and shall be submitted as part of the
special use permit application meeting all currently adopted Jersey County
ordinances.
   (P)   Conformance with approved application and plans. The applicant shall
construct and operate the WECS project in substantial conformance with the
construction plans contained in a county-approved submitted special use permit
application(s), conditions placed upon the operation of the facility, this
chapter and all applicable state, federal and local laws and regulations.
   (Q)   Additional terms and conditions.
      (1)   All technical submissions as defined in the Professional
Engineering Practice Act of 1989 (225 ILCS 325/4(w)) and contained in the
special use permit application shall be prepared and signed by an Illinois
professional engineer (or structural engineer) for the relevant discipline.
      (2)   The county may retain a qualified, independent code inspector or
professional engineer both to make appropriate inspections of the WECS project
during and after construction and to consult with the county to confirm that
the construction, substantial repair, replacement, repowering and/or
decommissioning of the WECS project is performed in compliance with applicable
electrical and building codes. The cost and fees so incurred by the county in
retaining said inspector or engineer shall be promptly reimbursed by the
applicant of the WECS project.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide locked metal gates or a locked chain,
which shall be installed at the access road entrances of all the wind turbine
generator locations. Exception may be made when the landowner has filed a
written statement with the county which states that the owner does not want a
locked metal gate installed and has provided a signed liability waiver to the
county.
      (4)   The special use application granted to the applicant shall bind and
inure to the benefit of the applicant, its successors-in-interest and assigns.
If any provision in this chapter, or conditions placed upon the operation of
the commercial wind energy facilities are held to be invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect any other provision of this chapter that can be given effect
without the invalid provision and, to this end, the provisions in this chapter
are severable.
      (5)   The applicant shall provide an executed road use agreement between
the applicant and the appropriate governing road and highway jurisdictions or
the Illinois Department of Transportation to the county showing approved
entrances prior to the issuance of any WECS building permit or prior to
construction of the WECS project.
      (6)   No wind turbine generator shall be installed in any location where
its proximity with existing fixed broadcast, retransmission, or reception
antenna for radio, television, or wireless phone or other personal
communication systems would produce electromagnetic interference with signal
transmission or reception. The wind turbine generator shall not be installed in
a location along the major axis of an existing microwave communications link
where its operation is likely to produce electromagnetic interference in the
link's operation.
      (7)   The applicant of the WECS project shall use two methods to detect
icing conditions on turbine blades: (1) sensors that detect when blades become
imbalanced or create vibration due to ice accumulation; and (2) meteorological
data from on-site meteorological towers, on-site anemometers, and other
relevant weather sources that will be used to determine if ice accumulation is
occurring. These control systems will either automatically shut down the
turbines(s) in icing conditions or the applicant will manually shut down the
turbine(s) if icing conditions are identified.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.07 OPERATION.
   (A)   Maintenance.
      (1)   Annual report. The applicant (WECS permittee) must submit, on an
annual basis on the anniversary date of the siting approval application, an
operation and maintenance report to the county. The report shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   A general description of any physical repairs, replacements or
modification(s) to the WECS and/or its infrastructure;
         (b)   Complaints pertaining to setbacks, noise, shadow flicker,
appearance, safety, lighting and use of any public roads received by the
applicant concerning the WECS and the resolution of such complaints;
         (c)   Calls for emergency services;
         (d)   Status of liabilityinsurance; and
         (e)   A general summary of service calls to the WECS. Failure to
provide the annual report shall be considered a material violation of this
chapter and subject to §
157.17.
      (2)   Re-certification. Any physical modification to the WECS that alters
the mechanical load, mechanical load path, or major electrical components shall
require re-certification under §
157.06(A). Like-kind replacements and modifications that are made in the
ordinary course of operations, including expected repairs and warranty items,
shall not require re-certification. Prior to making any physical modification
(other than a like-kind replacement or other modifications made in the ordinary
course of operations), the applicant shall confer with a relevant third-party
certifying entity identified in §
157.06(A) to determine whether the physical modification requires re-
certification.
   (B)   Coordination with emergency responders.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit to the local emergency responders a copy
of the site plan, standard operating procedures (SOPs) and standard operating
guidelines (SOGs), and any amendments to such documents, for the wind power
facility so that the local law enforcement, fire protection district and rescue
units, emergency medical service providers and emergency management service
providers that have jurisdiction over each tower site may evaluate and
coordinate their emergency response plans with the applicant of the WECS
project.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall alleviate the need to comply with all
other applicable life safety and fire/emergency laws and regulations or any
adopted Jersey County ordinance.
   (C)   Water, sewer, materials handling, storage and disposal.
      (1)   All solid waste related to the construction, operation and
maintenance of the WECS shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of
in accordance with all federal, state and local laws.
      (2)   All hazardous materials related to the construction, operation and
maintenance of the WECS shall be handled, stored, transported and disposed of
in accordance with all applicable local, state and federal laws.
      (3)   The WECS project shall comply with existing septic and well
regulations as required by the County Health Department and the State of
Illinois Department of Public Health.
   (D)   Shadow flicker. The applicant must present to the County Board a model
study on potential shadow flicker. The applicant shall appropriately
demonstrate to the County Board through industry standard modeling that no
occupied community building or nonparticipating residence will experience an
expected duration of 30 hours or more per year. An occupied community building
owner or a nonparticipating residence owner may waive this shadow flicker
mitigation requirement. Each waiver of the above shadow flicker mitigation
requirement shall be set forth in a written waiver executed by the occupied
community bulldlng owner or nonparticipating residence owner and filed with the
County Recorder of Deeds office against title to the affected real property.
   (E)   Signage. Signage regulations are to be consistent with ANSI and AWEA
standards. A reasonably visible warning sign concerning voltage shall be placed
at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and substations, and at all
entrances to wind towers.
   (F)   Drainage systems. The applicant, at its expense, will repair, in a
prompt and timely manner, all waterways, drainage ditches, agricultural
drainage systems, field tiles, or any other private and public infrastructure
improvements damaged during construction, maintenance and operation phases of
the WECS project in accordance with the agricultural impact mitigation
agreement.
   (G)   Complaint resolution. The applicant shall, at its expense and in
coordination with the county, develop a system for logging and investigating
complaints related to the WECS project. The applicant shall resolve such non-
emergency complaints on a case-by-case basis and shall provide written
confirmation to the county. All costs and fees incurred by the county in
attempting to or resolving complaints shall be reimbursed by the applicant of
the WECS project. The applicant shall also designate and maintain for the
duration of the WECS project either a local telephone number or a toll-free
telephone number and an email address as its public information/inquiry/
complaint "hotline" which shall be answered by a customer service
representative on a 24/7 basis. The applicant shall post the telephone number
(s) and email address(es) for the customer service representative(s) in a
prominent, easy to find location on their websites and at the WECS project site
onsignage.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.08 LIABILITY INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Commencing with the issuance of a WECS special use application
approval, the applicant shall maintain a current general comprehensive
liability policy and automobile liability coverage covering bodily injury,
death and illness, and property damage with limits of at least $5,000,000 per
occurrence and in the aggregate; and shall further maintain the above-stated
lines of insurance from delivery of the "notice to proceed” by the applicant
under the turbine supply and/or balance of plant construction contract(s) for
the WECS project, in coverage amounts of at least $5,000,000 per occurrence and
$20,000,000 in the aggregate during the life of the WECS project. The applicant
shall file the original certificate of insurance upon commencement of project
construction prior to the issuance of a WECS building permit; corresponding
policies and endorsements shall be provided within 60 days of issuance, and at
each subsequent renewal, at least annually thereafter.
   (B)   The applicant (WECS permittee) shall defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the county and its officers, appointed and elected officials,
employees, attorneys, engineers and agents (collectively and individually, the
"indemnified parties") from and against any and all claims, demands, losses,
suits, causes of action, damages, injuries, costs, expenses and liabilities
whatsoever, including reasonable attorney's fees relating to or arising out of
the issuance of the special use permit or the construction, operation,
maintenance and removal of the WECS and affiliated equipment; including,
without limitation, liability for property damage or personal injury (including
death or illness), whether said liability is premised on contract or on tort
(including without limitation strict liability or negligence) or any acts or
omissions of the applicant (WECS permittee), the owner or the operator under
this chapter or the special use permit; except to the extent any such claims,
demands, losses, suits, causes of action, damages, injuries, costs, expenses
and liabilities arise from the negligence or intentional acts of such
indemnified parties. This general indemnification shall not be construed as
limiting or qualifying the county's other indemnification rights available
under the law.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.09 COMPLAINT RESOLUTION.
   The applicant shall develop a process to resolve any complaints that may
arise from neighboring property owners during the construction and operation of
the wind energy conversion system. The process shall use an independent
mediator and shall include a time limit for acting on a complaint that is
received. The process shall not preclude the local government from acting on a
complaint. The applicant shall provide to the nearby residents a toll-free
phone number for complaints during the construction of the facility if a
problem should arise. The applicant will respond to all complaints from persons
directly affected by the commercial project within 48 hours, will attempt to
resolve all complaints in a prompt and responsible manner, will keep a log of
all complaints and the method of resolution, will make the log available to the
county, and will agree to participate in a non-binding mediation for complaints
that are not resolved, with the cost of such to be paid directly by the
applicant.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.10 USE OF PUBLIC ROADS.
   (A)   An applicant proposing to use any county, municipality, township or
village road(s), for the purpose of transporting WECS or substation parts and/
or equipment for construction, operation or maintenance of the WECS or
substation(s), shall;
      (1)   Identify all such public roads; and
      (2)   Obtain applicable weight and size permits from relevant government
agencies prior to construction.
   (B)   To the extent an applicant must obtain a weight or size permit from
the county, municipality, township or village, the applicant shall;
      (1)   Conduct a pre-construction baseline survey to determine existing
road conditions for assessing potential future damage; and
      (2)   Any proposed public roads that will be used for construction
purposes shall be identified and approved in writing by the respective Road
District Commissioner and the County Engineer prior to the granting of the
special use application. Traffic for construction purposes shall be limited to
these roads. All overweight and/or oversized loads to be transported on public
roads may require a permit from the respective highway authority. Any road
damage caused by the transport of the facility's equipment, or the
installation, maintenance, or removal of such equipment, must be completely
repaired to the reasonable satisfaction of the Road District Commissioner and
the County Engineer. The Road District Commissioner and County Engineer may
choose to require either remediation of road repair upon completion of the wind
energy conversion system or are authorized to collect fees for overweight and/
or oversized load permits. Further, financial assurance, in an amount to be
fixed by the Road District Commissioner or County Engineer to assure to the
road district or the county that future repairs are completed to their
reasonable satisfaction, shall be provided. The applicant shall submit a draft
form of said financial assurance with special use application.
      (3)   Enter into a road use agreement with the county and each affected
road district that includes the following provisions, at a minimum;
         (a)   Project layout map;
         (b)   Transportation impact analysis;
         (c)   Pre-construction plans;
         (d)   Project traffic map;
         (e)   Project scope of repairs;
         (f)   Post-construction repairs;
         (g)   Insurance;
         (h)   Financial security in forms and amounts acceptable to the
county; and
         (i)   The road use agreement shall require the applicant to be
responsible for the reasonable cost of improving roads used to construct a WECS
and the reasonable cost of repairing roads used by the facility owner during
construction of the wind energy conversion systems so that those roads are in a
condition that is safe for the driving public after the completion of the wind
energy conversion system’s construction.
      (4)   All repairs and improvements to public roads and roadway
appurtenance shall be subject to the prior approval of the county before being
made and shall also be subject to inspection and acceptance by the county after
such repairs and improvements are completed. The county's road use agreement,
and any further agreements contemplated therein, regarding the maintenance and
repair of public roads and highways, must be approved by the County Board prior
to the issuance of any wind energy conversion systems building permit related
to the construction of the proposed wind energy conversion systems.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.11 APPLICABLE FEES AND SPECIAL USE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon submittal of a special use permit application for a wind energy
conversion system, the applicant shall submit a non-refundable filing fee as
listed in the Jersey County Fee Schedule that will be utilized to review and
assess the application. Should the actual costs to the county exceed the
current fee, the applicant shall be responsible for those additional costs,
including, but not limited to the costs of outside attorneys, hearing officer,
and consultants (e,g, noise engineers, traffic engineers, and environmental
consultants), and shall remit additional funds to the county within 15 days of
receipt of request from the county. The building permit fee shall be calculated
using the most current adopted Jersey County Fee Schedule.
   (B)   An itemized cost estimate for the entire construction of the project
such as the following (may not be all inclusive):
      (1)   Cost of plans and engineering, surveying, environmental reports;
      (2)   Cost of stormwater plan, or any research regarding stormwater
development;
      (3)   Fencing and ground work of actual wind turbine site;
      (4)   Cost of substation connections, including but not limited to
overhead wires and switches;
      (5)   Any foundation work required for the placement of the wind turbine
structure; and
      (6)   The entire structure itself and any machinery and equipment needed
to operate the facility.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.12 COUNTY CODE ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The County Code Official shall accept and date stamp the application
was filed. The date stamp should be considered the official filing date for all
time purposes. Receipt and acceptance of an application by the Code Official is
pro forma, and does not constitute an acknowledgment that the applicant has
complied with this chapter.
   (B)   The Code Official shall forward the application to the County Engineer
for a determination of completeness.
   (C)   Code Official shall make available a copy of the application and
public record concerning the application for public inspection during the
normal business hours of the county offices. Additionally, the Code Official
shall provide to any person so requesting copies of the application or the
public record upon payment by such persons for the actual cost of reproduction.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.13 PUBLIC HEARING.
   After the filing of an application, the Code Official shall make a
preliminary determination of completeness of the application. If, in the Code
Official's opinion, the application has addressed the required elements of an
application, it will be forwarded to the County Engineer and the Subdivision
and Land Use Committee to conduct a public hearing on the application. If the
application is incomplete, the applicant will be notified and the application
will not proceed to hearing unless good cause is shown for the incompleteness.
   (A)   Notice. The applicant must provide a complete list of all properties
adjacent to a proposed wind energy conversion system. The applicant shall have
a notice issued to every owner of those properties by certified mail,
registered mail, or personal service at the last known address of such owner of
a property as identified by the county tax records. The notice will identify
the nature of the proposed use and the date that a public hearing shall occur
on the proposed use at the Subdivision and Land Use Committee, and that any
person may make an appearance to participate in that hearing. Those notices
must be served at least 15 days before the public hearing. The applicant shall
provide evidence of notification or evidence of a "good faith" effort to
contact the property owner prior to the hearing if requested by the Code
Official. The hearing notice shall also be published in a circulation of
general publication at least three times before the hearing commences, with the
first publication occurring at least 30 days before the hearing and at least
one publication occurring between seven and 15 days before the hearing.
   (B)   Subdivision and Land Use Committee. The Committee members shall
preside over the public hearing; establish a record of the proceedings; and
make decisions concerning the admission of the evidence and the manner in which
the hearing is conducted. The Chairperson of the Committee will make a
recommendation and proposed findings to the full Board at the next regular
scheduled meeting. At the commencement of the public hearing, people wishing to
provide a public comment will be identified by a sign in sheet.
   (C)   Committee and County Board action. The Subdivision and Land Use
Committee will consider the following facts:
      (1)   Whether the application and proposed wind energy conversion system
substantially complies with the wind energy conversion systems.
      (2)   Whether the proposed wind energy conversion system is sufficiently
protective of the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of Jersey
County.
      (3)   The Subdivision and Land Use Committee shall tender its findings
and recommendations to the County Board. The committee may recommend approval,
approval with request for additional information or clarification, approval
with conditions, or denial. Within 30 days of the conclusion of the public
hearing, the County Board will meet in public session and render its decision.
The County Board may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application.
   (D)   Re-filing. Any applicant, owner or operator whose wind energy
conversion system application is denied may not re-file a substantially similar
application for one year. If the County Code Official determines an application
is substantially similar to one the applicant filed within one year, it will
not be forwarded to the Subdivision and Land Use Committee or the County Board
for review.
   (E)   Hearing facilitator. The county may engage the services of a hearing
facilitator. The hearing facilitator shall be an independent contractor who
shall conduct a hearing in accordance with all applicable rules of the Board
and the county but has no adjudicatory responsibility other than ruling on
requests for continuance, procedural matters, admissibility of evidence and the
propriety of any arguments.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.14 BUILDING PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   Building applications shall be submitted to the Code Official. The
application shall be on a form approved by the Code Official and must be
accompanied by two copies of the following:
   (A)   Address of property, date of application (911 address required);
   (B)   Applicant's name, address, and contact information;
   (C)   Property owner’s name, address, phone number, and email;
   (D)   Company name (if different from applicant), contact information,
mailing address, and email;
   (E)   Site drawing that shows the proposed location and distance of the wind
energy conversion system with reference to property lines of the parcel; right-
of-way of any road; residence; business; or public building;
   (F)   Final construction plans prepared and sealed by a structural engineer
licensed in Illinois;
   (G)   Building permit fee payable by check to "Jersey County" (refer to the
Jersey County Fee Schedule).
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.15 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by
personnel of the Jersey County Code Administrator office (herein referred to as
the "Code Official") through an inspection of the wind energy conversion system
every year. The Code Official and his/her deslgnee are hereby granted the power
and authority to enter upon the premises of the wind energy conversion system
at any time by coordinating a reasonable time with the operator and/or owner of
the facility. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, refuses to comply with, or resists the enforcement of any provisions
in this section may face fines of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for
each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed
each day the violation remains uncorrected.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.16 DECOMMISSIONING SECURITY COSTS.
   The plan shall ensure financial resources equal to 125% of the entire cost
of decommission, and approved by the Code Official and the state's attorney, in
a surety performance bond that is readily convertible into cash at face value
and that names Jersey County and its officials as the insured. This surety
shall be retained by the county to cover the cost of the decommissioning
requirements herein. Following initial submittal of the surety, the cost
calculation shall be reviewed bi-annually, and adjusted accordingly based upon
an updated estimate, excluding the salvage value, by an Illinois licensed
engineer under seal; provided however, that any such periodic adjustment must
be approved by the County Board. The county shall hire the engineer and the
applicant shall be required to cover the cost. Failure to comply with any
requirement of this section shall result in the immediate termination and
revocation of all prior approvals and permits; further, the county shall be
entitled to make immediate demand upon, and/or retain any proceeds of, the
surety, which shall be used for decommissioning and/or removal of the wind
energy conversion system, even if still operational. The decommissioning
agreement and financial assurances shall comply with 55 ILCS 5/5-12020.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 157.17 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The applicant's failure to materially comply with any of the
provisions under the special use application, any conditions imposed on the
project, and/or failure to comply with any law or regulation shall be a default
and shall be grounds for revocation of the special use application by the
Jersey County Subdivision and Land Use Committee.
   (B)   Prior to implementation of the applicable county procedures for the
resolution of default(s), the Jersey County Code Administrator must first
provide written notice to the applicant and operator, setting forth the alleged
default(s) and provide an opportunity for the applicant or the operator to cure
the default(s) within a 30 calendar day period from the date of the notice.
Should the applicant commence the cure within that 30-day cure period, and
diligently pursues a cure, then the applicant shall receive an additional 60
days to continue to pursue the cure before the county pursues procedures for
the resolution of default. If the default relates to a life safety issue or
interference with local government public safety (police, fire, emergency
medical services, emergency management services, 911 dispatch) communications,
the applicant or the operator shall take all necessary and available commercial
measures to immediately cure the default. If the applicant or operator cannot
cure the default(s) or resolve the alleged default(s) within the cure period,
then applicable county ordinance provisions addressing the resolution of such
default(s) shall govern.
(Ord. WEC-23, passed 8-8-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                                                Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                                              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                                              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                                              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                                              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                                              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                                              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                                              10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                                                 10.04
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.                                        31.19
5 ILCS 220                                                  33.051
5 ILCS 220/3                                                131.06
5 ILCS 315/3                                                33.080
5 ILCS 430/5-65                                             31.99
5 ILCS 430/15-10                                            31.38
10 ILCS 5/1-3                                               10.02,
                                                            33.080
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4                                             33.080
10 ILCS 5/9-3                                               33.080
20 ILCS 3125                                                150.016,
                                                            150.075
20 ILCS 3855/1-1                                            151.10
20 ILCS 3855/1-1 et seq.                                    151.32
30 ILCS 525/                                                33.005,
                                                            33.007
30 ILCS 535/                                                33.007
35 ILCS 200/21-330                                          36.065
50 ILCS 805/1 et seq.                                       51.01
50 ILCS 820                                                 111.02
50 ILCS 820/1 et seq.                                       111.01
50 ILCS 820/2.a                                             111.02
55 ILCS 5                                                   155.001
55 ILCS Article 5                                           154.11
55 ILCS 5/5-12                                              150.237
55 ILCS 5/5-1015                                            33.050
55 ILCS 5/5-1041                                            152.01
55 ILCS 5/5-1041 et seq.                                    51.01
55 ILCS 5/5-1063                                            152.01,
                                                            155.001
55 ILCS 5/5-1071.1                                          90.99
55 ILCS 5/5-1113                                            10.99,
                                                            131.99
55 ILCS 5/5-1121                                            36.083,
                                                            154.11
55 ILCS 5/5-12001                                           151.30,
                                                            155.001
                                                            151.02,
55 ILCS 5/5-12020                                           157.02,
                                                            157.16
55 ILCS 5/5-15001 et seq.                                   51.01
55 ILCS 5/5-15016                                           51.01
55 ILCS 5/5-41055                                           36.083
65 ILCS 5                                                   10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(3)                                          10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2(5)                                          10.02
65 ILCS 5/8-3-14                                            34.07
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                                          156.003
65 ILCS 5/11-15-1                                           156.003
70 ILCS                                                     153.002
77 ILCS 905                                                 152.09
105 ILCS 5/3-13                                             131.02
105 ILCS 5/26-7 through 5/26-8(b)                           131.05
105 ILCS 5/26-10                                            131.05
105 ILCS 5/26-11                                            131.05
                                                            154.01,
210 ILCS 115                                                154.04—
                                                            154.06
210 ILCS 117                                                154.05,
                                                            154.11
210 ILCS 120                                                154.01,
                                                            154.05
                                                            50.02,
                                                            Ch. 51, App. B,
225 ILCS 225/                                               156.049,
                                                            156.112,
                                                            156.113,
                                                            156.115
225 ILCS 227                                                91.01
225 ILCS 227/1 et seq.                                      91.01
225 ILCS 305/21                                             150.002
225 ILCS 320/35                                             150.135
225 ILCS 320/36                                             150.135
225 ILCS 325/4(w)                                           157.06
230 ILCS 15/2 et seq.                                       110.01
410 ILCS 620/10                                             111.02
410 ILCS 625                                                111.01
410 ILCS 625/4                                              112.01
415 ILCS Tit. I                                             51.01
415 ILCS 5/1                                                51.02,
                                                            Ch. 51, App. B
415 ILCS 5/2(a)(iv)                                         51.01
415 ILCS 5/3.215                                            36.081
415 ILCS 5/3.300                                            36.081
415 ILCS 5/4(g), (m), (r), (t), and (x)                     51.01
415 ILCS 5/11 and 5/12, from Ch. 111-1/2, par 1011 and 1012 153.037,
                                                            153.056
415 ILCS 5/14 et seq.                                       51.01
415 ILCS 5/14.1 through 14.2                                51.02
415 ILCS 5/14.3                                             51.02
415 ILCS 5/17                                               51.05
415 ILCS 30/1 et seq.                                       51.01
415 ILCS 30/3                                               Ch. 51, App. B
415 ILCS 55 et seq.                                         51.01
415 ILCS 55/1                                               Ch. 51, App. B
425 ILCS 35/0.01 et. seq.                                   91.05
425 ILCS 35/2.2                                             91.01
430 ILCS 115                                                154.05
430 ILCS 115/3                                              154.04
430 ILCS 117                                                154.05
505 ILCS 100/                                               36.081,
                                                            36.082
505 ILCS 147/15(a)                                          151.05,
                                                            157.06
510 ILCS 5/                                                 90.01
510 ILCS 5/5                                                90.03
510 ILCS 5/8                                                90.20
510 ILCS 5/15                                               90.99
605 ILCS 5/6-325                                            156.098
615 ILCS                                                    153.002
615 ILCS 5/5                                                152.01
615 ILCS 5/5 et seq.                                        152.02
615 ILCS 15/                                                152.01
625 ILCS 5/                                                 Ch. 71, App. A
625 ILCS 5/1-118                                            36.081
625 ILCS 5/1-188                                            10.02
625 ILCS 5/1-217                                            36.081
625 ILCS 5/6-303                                            72.02
625 ILCS 5/7-703                                            36.001
625 ILCS 5/11-204                                           72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-204.1                                         72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-501                                           36.110,
                                                            72.02
625 ILCS 5/11-506                                           72.02
                                                            71.15,
625 ILCS 5/11-601                                           71.18,
                                                            Ch. 71, App. B,
                                                            Ch. 73, Schd. I
625 ILCS 5/11-604                                           71.15,
                                                            Ch. 73, Schd. I
705 ILCS 105/27.1b                                          36.001
705 ILCS 105/135 et seq.                                    36.001
705 ILCS 135/1-5 et seq.                                    36.001
720 ILCS 5/24-1                                             72.02
720 ILCS 550/4                                              72.02
720 ILCS 570/401                                            36.110
720 ILCS 570/402                                            72.02
720 ILCS 600/3.5                                            130.03
720 ILCS 675/1(a-9)                                         132.01
730 ILCS 115/                                               35.02
730 ILCS 115/1                                              35.02
735 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.                                    72.08
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.                                    111.44
740 ILCS 174/15(a)                                          31.38
740 ILCS 174/15(b)                                          31.38
765 ILCS 205/                                               156.007,
                                                            156.111
765 ILCS 205/2                                              152.08
775 ILCS 5/                                                 31.36
775 ILCS 5/6-101                                            31.38
815 ILCS 333/1 et seq.                                      10.02
                                                            
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No. Date Passed    Description
-        7-11-1995      110.01—
                        110.08
-        3-11-2003      34.08
-        3-13-2007      Ch. 73, Sch. I
                        71.15—
-        3-13-2007      71.21,
                        Ch. 71, App. A,
                        Ch. 71, App. B
-        2-13-2008      Ch. 73, Sch. I
                        72.01—
-        8-12-2008      72.08,
                        72.99
-        11-10-2009     Ch. 73, Sch. I
-        11-10-2009     Ch. 73, Sch. I
-        2-12-2013      33.065
-        eff. 7-7-2014  112.01
-        6-9-2015       33.020
-        6-14-2016      31.21
-        2-14-2017      33.035
-        8-8-2017       130.02
-        eff. 11-1-2017 36.110
                        31.35—
-        1-9-2018       31.39,
                        31.99
-        6-12-2018      30.01
-        8-14-2018      36.065
-        9-11-2018      36.035
-        9-11-2018      36.050
                        36.015—
-        4-9-2019       36.022,
                        36.999
2019-    5-14-2019      36.001
                        111.01,
                        111.02,
-        11-14-2023     111.15 -
                        111.27 -
                        111.45,
                        111.99
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed     Code Section
-        2-2-1976        32.01—
                         32.12
                         50.01—
-        11-10-1986      50.03,
                         50.99
                         34.01—
-        1-9-1989        34.07,
                         34.99
-        9-13-1989       71.01,
                         71.99
                         51.01—
                         51.07,
-        - -1995         51.99,
                         Ch. 51, App. A,
                         Ch. 51, App. B
-        5-14-2002       35.01
                         156.001—
                         156.008,
                         156.020,
                         156.021,
                         156.035—
                         156.064,
                         156.075—
                         156.099,
                         156.110—
                         156.132,
                         156.145,
                         156.146,
                         156.160—
-        10-14-2003      156.166,
                         156.999,
                         Ch. 156, App. A,
                         Ch. 156, App. B,
                         Ch. 156, App. C,
                         Ch. 156, App. D,
                         Ch. 156, App. E,
                         Ch. 156, App. F,
                         Ch. 156, App. G,
                         Ch. 156, App. H,
                         Ch. 156, App. I,
                         Ch. 156, App. J,
                         Ch. 156, App. K,
                         Ch. 156, App. L
                         156.001—
                         156.008,
                         156.020,
                         156.021,
                         156.035—
                         156.064,
                         156.075—
                         156.099,
                         156.110—
                         156.132,
                         156.145,
                         156.146,
                         156.160—
-        11-10-2003      156.166,
                         156.999,
                         Ch. 156, App. A,
                         Ch. 156, App. B,
                         Ch. 156, App. C,
                         Ch. 156, App. D,
                         Ch. 156, App. E,
                         Ch. 156, App. F,
                         Ch. 156, App. G,
                         Ch. 156, App. H,
                         Ch. 156, App. I,
                         Ch. 156, App. J,
                         Ch. 156, App. K,
                         Ch. 156, App. L
                         156.001—
                         156.008,
                         156.020,
                         156.021,
                         156.035—
                         156.064,
                         156.075—
                         156.099,
                         156.110—
                         156.132,
                         156.145,
                         156.146,
                         156.160—
-        11-14-2004      156.166,
                         156.999,
                         Ch. 156, App. A,
                         Ch. 156, App. B,
                         Ch. 156, App. C,
                         Ch. 156, App. D,
                         Ch. 156, App. E,
                         Ch. 156, App. F,
                         Ch. 156, App. G,
                         Ch. 156, App. H,
                         Ch. 156, App. I,
                         Ch. 156, App. J,
                         Ch. 156, App. K,
                         Ch. 156, App. L
-        2-8-2005        Ch. 73, Sch. II
-        10-11-2005      36.141
                         93.01—
-        3-14-2006       93.06,
                         93.99
-        2-20-2007       36.140
                         91.01—
-        5-8-2007        91.05,
                         91.99
                         156.001—
                         156.008,
                         156.020,
                         156.021,
                         156.035—
                         156.064,
                         156.075—
                         156.099,
                         156.110—
                         156.132,
                         156.145,
                         156.146,
                         156.160—
-        9-11-2007       156.166,
                         156.999,
                         Ch. 156, App. A,
                         Ch. 156, App. B,
                         Ch. 156, App. C,
                         Ch. 156, App. D,
                         Ch. 156, App. E,
                         Ch. 156, App. F,
                         Ch. 156, App. G,
                         Ch. 156, App. H,
                         Ch. 156, App. I,
                         Ch. 156, App. J,
                         Ch. 156, App. K,
                         Ch. 156, App. L
                         153.001—
                         153.009,
                         153.020,
                         153.035—
                         153.040,
                         153.055—
-        9-8-2009        153.061,
                         153.075,
                         153.090—
                         153.092,
                         153.105—
                         153.110,
                         153.125,
                         153.999
                         36.125—
-        4-13-2010       36.127,
                         36.999
-        11-9-2010       93.03,
                         93.99
                         131.01—
-        1-14-2011       131.06,
                         131.99
-        5-10-2011       130.15—
                         130.17
2013-01  2-12-2013       31.50
                         33.080—
-        11-10-2014      33.083,
                         33.999
-        6-9-2015        31.50
-        6-9-2015        70.01
                         92.01—
-        6-9-2015        92.03,
                         92.99
16-4     10-11-2016      130.01
                         150.152—
                         150.162,
                         150.175,
                         150.176,
-        11-9-2016       150.190—
                         150.194,
                         150.205—
                         150.208,
                         150.220
17-1     2-14-2017       31.15—
                         31.20
                         111.01,
                         111.02,
                         111.15—
17-2     2-14-2017       111.27,
                         111.40—
                         111.45,
                         111.99
17-3     3-14-2017       70.01
-        4-11-2017       130.01,
                         130.99
17-4     6-13-2017       130.03,
                         130.99
                         36.080—
                         36.084,
-        12-12-2017      36.095—
                         36.099,
                         36.999
                         155.001—
                         155.003,
                         155.015,
                         155.016,
                         155.030—
                         155.039,
                         155.050—
                         155.056,
                         155.070—
-        3-13-2012       155.073,
                         155.085,
                         155.100—
                         155.104,
                         155.115,
                         155.130—
                         155.132,
                         155.115,
                         155.116,
                         155.999,
                         Ch. 155, App. A
-        2-13-2018       33.001—
                         33.009
-        4-9-2019        150.999
                         36.015—
-        Rev. 2-21-2020  36.022,
                         36.999,
                         155.037
                         113.01—
-        2-9-2021        113.07,
                         113.99
                         90.01—
                         90.07,
-        9-14-2021       90.20—
                         90.24,
                         90.99
-        10-12-2021      33.050
                         36.015—
-        Rev. 10-15-2021 36.022,
                         36.999,
                         155.037
                         150.001,
                         150.002,
                         150.015,
                         150.016,
                         150.030,
                         150.031,
                         150.045,
                         150.046,
                         150.060,
                         150.061,
                         150.075,
3        11-9-2021       150.076,
                         150.090,
                         150.105,
                         150.106,
                         150.120,
                         150.121,
                         150.135,
                         150.150,
                         150.151,
                         150.235—
                         150.237,
                         150.999
                         152.01—
21-4     11-9-2021       152.13,
                         152.99
                         150.250—
11-21    11-9-2021       150.255,
                         150.999
-        9-13-2022       34.08
-        9-13-2022       36.141
-        9-13-2022       113.02
-        4-11-2023       33.090
-        5-9-2023        151.01—
                         151.15
                         36.015—
-        Rev. 8-8-2023   36.023,
                         36.082,
                         36.999
WEC-23   8-8-2023        157.01—
                         157.17
-        9-12-2023       132.01,
                         132.99
BESS-25  3-11-2025       151.30—
                         151.45
                        
 
