COUNTY CODE
of
JO DAVIESS COUNTY, ILLINOIS
2009
Code current through:
Ord. O2024-10, passed September 10, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the County of Jo Daviess County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance O2024-10, passed September 10, 2024.
Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2009-1
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE JO DAVIESS ILLINOIS COUNTY CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the county board members of the county of Jo Daviess
Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the county
code of the county of Jo Daviess, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the county, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official
code and law of the county as enacted by the county board.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official county code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the county clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
county code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official county code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the county code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official county code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law.
PASSED this 10th day of March, 2009.
APPROVED this 10th day of March, 2009.
/s/          
Marvin Schultz
Chairperson of Jo Daviess County Board
ATTEST:
/s/ Jean Dimke   
County Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
JO DAVIESS COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the county board, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official county code of Jo Daviess County. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the JO DAVIESS COUNTY CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the county board and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2009 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The county code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2009 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any way
affect this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in case of repealed
chapters, sections and subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, such repealed portions may be excluded from the code by omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and such subsequent provisions as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of them until such time as this code and subsequent provisions
numbered or omitted are readopted by the county board as a new code. (1977 Code
ch. 1 § 1-4)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to change or amend, by
additions or deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or
delete pages, or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the county to be misrepresented
thereby. (1977 Code ch. 1 § 1-5)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Effect Of Repeal; Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the county passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, public ways or other public places in
the county; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the county; and all special ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-2-2: EFFECT OF REPEAL; COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Effect Of Repealer: When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance,
clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal shall not be
construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall
be therein so expressly provided.
   B.   Court Proceedings: The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any
punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit,
prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense
committed or cause of action arising under the ordinance repealed. (1977 Code
ch. 1 § 1-6)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
The sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid or unenforceable by the valid
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality, invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this code.
(1977 Code ch. 1 § 1-7)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Rules Of Construction
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines Of Sections
1-3-1: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Application Of Rules: In the construction of this code, and of all
ordinances, the rules and definitions set out in this chapter shall be
observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the county board. The rules of construction and definitions set out
herein shall not be applied to any section of this code which shall contain any
express provision excluding such construction, or where the subject matter or
context of such section may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   General Interpretation:
      1.   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this code shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and
meaning of the county board may be fully carried out.
      2.   In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this
code, they shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the
subject matter than the general provisions imposed by this code, the provision
imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling. (1977 Code ch. 1 § 1-2)
   C.   Word Usage:
      1.   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular number only,
or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the opposite
gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included.
      2.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the county have
been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the county ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2009 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The Jo Daviess County code.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to be
done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted in
computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall be
counted.
COUNTY: The county of Jo Daviess in the state of Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD OR BOARD: The county board of Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY: Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of a
department or some other county officer to do some act or perform some duty, it
is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer to
designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the required act or
perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section specify
otherwise.
GENDER: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be applied
to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
ILCS: Illinois Compiled Statutes, as amended.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
NUMBER: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be applied to
several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
OATH: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words "swear" and "sworn"
shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES GENERALLY: Whenever any officer or employee is referred
to by title, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of
Jo Daviess County".
OWNER: The word "owner", applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or
tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations, clubs,
societies, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as to
individuals.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Every species of property except "real property", as herein
described.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before
and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
SHALL: The word "shall" is mandatory.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the county, and shall
include all areas thereof embraced between the property lines and dedicated to
the public use.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: The words "tenant" or "occupant", applied to a building or
land, shall include any person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies
the whole or a part of such buildings or lands, either alone or with others.
TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
WHOLESALE, WHOLESALER, WHOLESALE DEALER: In all cases where the words
"wholesale", "wholesaler", or "wholesale dealer" are used in this code, unless
otherwise specifically defined, they shall be understood and held to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for purposes of resale, as distinguished from a retail dealer who
sells in smaller quantities direct to the consumer.
WRITTEN OR IN WRITING: Shall be construed to include any representation of
words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1977 Code ch. 1 § 1-2; amd. 2009 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be the titles of such sections nor as any part of the section nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1977 Code ch. 1
§ 1-3)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Acts Punishable Under Different Sections
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-4: County Jail
1-4-5: Work Release Prisoners; Room And Board Rates
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Whenever in this code, or in any ordinance of the
county, any act or omission is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful
or an offense, or whenever in said code or ordinance the doing of any act or
the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or is
prohibited, and no specific penalty is provided therefor, and state law does
not provide otherwise, the violation of any such provision of this code or any
ordinance shall be an offense punishable by a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00).
   B.   Separate Offense For Each Day: Unless specifically provided otherwise,
or the context thereof so dictates, each day any violation of any provision of
this code or any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-1113.
1-4-2: ACTS PUNISHABLE UNDER DIFFERENT SECTIONS:
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may decide
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced. (2009 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any county officer or
employee shall be so construed so as to make such officer or employee liable
for any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such
duty, unless the intention of the county board to impose such a fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2009 Code)
1-4-4: COUNTY JAIL:
   A.   Acceptance Of Municipal Prisoners: The county sheriff is hereby
authorized to accept persons charged with a municipal violation when the
municipality has executed a contract and such contract has also been executed
by the county board chair.
   B.   Housing Fee For Out Of County Prisoners: The housing fee of the county
jail for out of county prisoners shall be such amount as is set by the county
board, by resolution, from time to time. (2009 Code)
1-4-5: WORK RELEASE PRISONERS; ROOM AND BOARD RATES:
The following persons who are sentenced to periodic imprisonment in the county
jail shall pay a fee for room and board as follows:
   A.   Employed offenders shall be charged a per diem rate two (2) times their
normal and standard gross hourly wage for seven (7) days per week.
   B.   The minimum per diem charge shall be set at six dollars ($6.00) per
day.
   C.   The maximum per diem charge shall be set at forty five dollars ($45.00)
per day.
   D.   All figures shall be rounded to the nearest dollar value.
   E.   Those offenders working less than thirty five (35) hours per week, but
more than twenty (20) hours per week, may be charged a rate two (2) times their
normal and standard gross hourly wages for only the number of days actually
worked.
   F.   Those offenders working less than twenty (20) hours per week shall have
the fee established by the court on an individual basis. (2009 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COUNTY BOARD ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION MEETINGS; RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
1-5-2: Presiding Officer
1-5-3: Quorum; Roll Call; Absent Members
1-5-4: Order Of Business
1-5-5: Agenda; Consent Agenda
1-5-6: Order And Decorum; Appeals
1-5-7: Debate
1-5-8: Question Of Personal Privilege
1-5-9: Special Order Of Business
1-5-10: Seconding Of Motions Required; Written Motions; Reading Of Motions,
Resolutions, Ordinances And Minutes
1-5-11: Withdrawal Of Motions
1-5-12: Division Of Questions
1-5-13: Record Of Motions
1-5-14: Votes
1-5-15: Reconsideration
1-5-16: Journal Of Minutes; Reading
1-5-17: Ordinances
1-5-18: Adoption Of Robert's Rules Of Order Newly Revised
1-5-19: Temporary Suspension Of Rules; Amendments Of Rules
1-5-20: Censure Of Members
1-5-21: Committees
1-5-22: Visitors
1-5-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the board shall be held on
the second Tuesday of each month at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. in
the county board room in the courthouse 1 . Notice of such regular meetings
shall be published once at the beginning of the county's fiscal year in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county and mailed to news media that
have filed a request with the county to be notified of regular and special
meetings of the board. No other notice of regular meetings of the board shall
be required. Any regular meeting falling on a legal holiday, an election day,
or any other regular meeting day on which the county board determines that a
regular meeting cannot be held shall be held on the next following day at the
same hour and place or on such day and at such time as determined by the board
at its regular meeting preceding the meeting which must be rescheduled.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held only when requested by
at least one-third (1/3) of the members of the board 2 . Such request shall be
in writing, addressed to the county clerk, specifying the time and place of
such meeting. Upon receipt of such written request, the county clerk shall
immediately transmit notice, in writing, of such meeting to all members of the
board. However, if all the board members are present at a regular or special
meeting of the board when a special meeting is called, no notice of the meeting
shall be necessary, and the foregoing notice requirement shall be waived. The
county clerk shall also cause notice of such special meeting to be published in
a newspaper printed in the county. In all cases, notice to members of the news
media of special meetings shall be made in compliance with the provisions of 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/2.04.
   C.   Meeting Location: Unless specifically determined otherwise by action of
the board at a regular or special meeting or in the written notice, all
meetings of the board shall be held in the county courthouse, including special
and adjourned meetings.
   D.   Open Meetings: All meetings, except executive sessions, shall be open
to the public, as is required by statute. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/2-1001.
2 1. 55 ILCS 5/2-1002.
1-5-2: PRESIDING OFFICER:
   A.   Chairperson: At its first meeting in the month following the month in
which county board members are elected, the board shall choose one of its
members as the chairperson for a term of two (2) years 1 . The chairperson
shall preside at all meetings of the board and at all times where the board
meets as a committee of the whole. The chairperson shall be a member of all
standing committees.
   B.   Vice Chairperson: At its first meeting in the month following the month
in which county board members are elected, the board shall choose one of its
members as the vice chairperson for a term of two (2) years 2 . The vice
chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the board and at all times where
the board meets as a committee of the whole and when the chairperson is not
present. The vice chairperson shall be the executive committee chairperson.
   C.   Temporary Chairperson: In the absence of the chairperson or vice
chairperson, the members of the county board shall choose one of their number
as temporary chairperson 3 . The temporary chairperson shall preside only over
the meeting at which he/she was chosen as temporary chairperson unless
reelected at subsequent meetings of the board when the chairperson and vice
chairperson are not present. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
 
Notes
1 2. 55 ILCS 5/2-1003.
2 3. 55 ILCS 5/2-1003.
3 4. 55 ILCS 5/2-1003.
1-5-3: QUORUM; ROLL CALL; ABSENT MEMBERS:
   A.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business 1 .
   B.   Roll Call: Each meeting of the board shall convene at the time
appointed for such meeting. The county clerk, or someone appointed by the
county clerk to fill the clerk's place in his/her absence, shall immediately
call the roll of members. If no quorum is present, the board shall not stand
adjourned, but the members present shall be competent to adjourn or recess the
board by a majority vote.
   C.   Absent Members: If no quorum is present and the members present desire
to compel the attendance of absent members, they themselves, or by their
agents, shall attempt to communicate the call to the meeting personally to the
absentees.
   D.   Attendance by Video or Audio Conference (5 ILCS 120/7)
      1.   If a quorum of the County Board and County Board Committee is
physically present, a majority of the County Board or County Board Committee
present at a meeting may allow a member to attend by video or audio conference,
provided that the member is prevented from physically attending because of: (i)
personal illness or disability; (ii) employment purposes or the business of the
County; (iii) a family or other emergency.
      2.   If a member wishes to attend a meeting by Video or Audio Conference,
the County Clerk must be notified prior to any meeting unless advance notice is
impractical. The member attending electronically shall be entitled to vote on
matters before the Board or Committee and the County Clerk shall record any
such vote as having been made electronically. (Ord., 10-14-2008; amd. Ord.
O2023-7, 5-9-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/2-1005.
1-5-4: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business shall be as follows:
   A.   Call to order.
   B.   Roll call and establishment of a quorum.
   C.   Pledge of Allegiance.
   D.   Invocation and thought for the day.
   E.   Reports and communications (on matters not otherwise on the agenda).
   F.   Consent agenda.
   G.   Citizens' comments.
   H.   Unfinished business.
   I.   New business.
   J.   Report of committees (on matters not otherwise on the agenda).
   K.   Comments from the public (not exceeding 3 minutes per individual).
   L.   Adjournment. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-5: AGENDA; CONSENT AGENDA:
   A.   Agenda: All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract
documents, or other matters to be submitted to the board shall be delivered to
the county board office in the courthouse by three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on the
Tuesday in the week preceding a regular board meeting. The chairperson or his
designee shall arrange a list of such matters in a preliminary agenda according
to the order of business and mail or otherwise convey such preliminary agenda
to each member of the board and the county clerk on the Thursday preceding the
board meeting. A final agenda will be prepared on the day of the board meeting
with any additions or revisions from the preliminary agenda clearly denoted on
the final agenda.
   B.   Consent Agenda: Each agenda may contain one or more groupings of items
referred to as a "consent agenda". These items typically are routine and
noncontroversial, often similar in nature to matters previously acted upon by
the board. Even though the items on the consent agenda are voted on in one
motion, and they will be recorded individually by the County Clerk in the Board
minutes, any Board member may ask for additional information about one or more
consent agenda items prior to voting. Additionally, prior to the vote on the
consent agenda, any Board member may ask that a consent agenda item be removed
from the consent agenda and be considered separately under unfinished or new
business, whichever is most appropriate as determined by the Chairperson, under
the regular agenda.
   C.   Presentation Of Additional Items Of Business: When a member wishes to
present a communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other
original matter as an item of business during the "reports and communications"
portion of the agenda, he/she shall request the presiding officer to place such
item on the agenda under unfinished or new business, whichever is most
appropriate. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-6: ORDER AND DECORUM; APPEALS:
   A.   Order And Decorum:
      1.   Presiding Officer:
         a.   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and may
speak to points of order in preference to other members, and shall decide all
questions of order subject to appeal. If the presiding officer refuses to allow
the members to exercise their right to appeal a decision of the presiding
officer, the members may consider and pass upon the matter in spite of the
presiding officer's failure to grant them an appeal.
         b.   In case of any disturbances or disorderly conducts, the presiding
officer shall have the power to require the board room to be cleared.
      2.   Members:
         a.   While the presiding officer is putting the questions, no member
shall walk out of the meeting room.
         b.   Every member, previous to his/her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall address himself/herself to the presiding officer and
say: "Mr./Madam Chairperson" and shall not proceed with his remarks until
recognized and named by the presiding officer. He/she shall confine himself/
herself to the question under debate, avoiding personalities and refraining
from impugning the motives of any other member's argument or vote.
         c.   When two (2) or more members address the presiding officer at the
same time, the presiding officer shall name the member who is first to speak.
         d.   The Board may, by two-thirds (2/3) vote, expel a member for
disorderly conduct from the current meeting.
         e.   A member, when called to order by the presiding officer, shall
discontinue speaking and take his seat and the order or ruling of the presiding
officer shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to the right of appeal.
   B.   Appeals: Any member may appeal to the Board from a ruling of the
presiding officer and, if the appeal is seconded, the member making the appeal
may briefly state his/her reason for the same, and the presiding officer may
briefly explain his/her ruling; but there shall be no debate on the appeal, and
no other member shall participate in the discussion. The presiding officer
shall then put the question, "Shall the decision of the presiding officer be
sustained?" If a majority of the members present vote "no", the decision of the
presiding officer shall be overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained. (Ord.,
10-14-2008)
1-5-7: DEBATE:
No member shall speak more than five (5) minutes total on the same question,
except by majority consent of the Board, provided, however, that the proponent
of the matter under consideration or the Chairperson of the committee whose
report is under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open
and close debate. While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion. (Ord. 2018-12, 11-13-2018)
1-5-8: QUESTION OF PERSONAL PRIVILEGE:
The right of a member to address the Board on a question of personal privilege
shall be limited to cases in which his/her integrity, character or motives are
assailed, questioned or impugned. Unlike subsidiary motions, privileged motions
do not relate to the pending business, but have to do with special matters of
immediate and overriding importance which, without debate, should be allowed to
interrupt the consideration of anything else. If a pressing situation is
affecting a right or privilege of the assembly or of an individual member (for
example, noise, inadequate ventilation, introduction of a confidential subject
in the presence of guests, etc.), a member can raise a question of privilege,
which permits him or her to interrupt pending business to state an urgent
request or motion. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-9: SPECIAL ORDER OF BUSINESS:
Any matter before the board may be set down as a special order of business at a
time certain, if two-thirds (2/3) of the board members present vote in the
affirmative, but not otherwise. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-10: SECONDING OF MOTIONS REQUIRED; WRITTEN MOTIONS; READING OF MOTIONS,
RESOLUTIONS, ORDINANCES AND MINUTES:
No motion shall be put or debated by the board unless it is seconded, provided,
however, that neither the maker nor the seconder of a motion shall be required
to vote in favor of the motion, and, further provided, that a motion
recommended by a committee shall not require a second. When a motion is
seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate. A motion,
except a motion of procedure, shall be reduced to writing if required by a
member. The member who proposed the motion shall be entitled to the floor. No
resolution, ordinance, or minutes distributed to the members in the week prior
to the meeting at which it is to be considered or at an earlier date before the
prior week need be read prior to consideration, but such items may be read in
response to a motion passed seeking such reading. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-11: WITHDRAWAL OF MOTIONS:
After a motion is stated by the presiding officer, it shall be deemed to be in
possession of the board, but it may be withdrawn at any time before decision,
by consent of the board. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-12: DIVISION OF QUESTIONS:
If any question under consideration contains several distinct propositions, the
board, by a majority vote of the members present, may divide each question.
(Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-13: RECORD OF MOTIONS:
In all cases where a motion is entered in the minutes, the name of the member
moving and seconding the same shall be entered. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-14: VOTES:
   A.   Ordinances And Propositions: The "yeas" and "nays" shall be taken upon
the passage of all ordinances and on all propositions to create any liability
against the county, or for the expenditure or appropriation of money, and in
all other cases at the request of any member of the board; and such vote shall
be entered on the minutes of the proceedings, as is provided by statute.
   B.   Questions: The "yeas" and "nays" upon any question for which they are
required to be recorded shall be taken and entered in the minutes. When the
clerk has commenced to call the roll of the board for the taking of a vote by
"yeas" and "nays", all debate on the question before the board shall be deemed
concluded. Following the initial roll call, in the order of the initial roll
call, the clerk shall ask each member who voted "present" or "pass" to confirm
their initial vote or to change their vote to "yea" or "nay" on the question.
Any member may change his/her vote before the clerk announces the results.
   C.   Order Of Voting: With each succeeding vote, the clerk shall commence to
call the roll with the member whose name alphabetically follows the member's
name who was first called on the prior vote. This alphabetical rotation shall
continue from meeting to meeting.
   D.   Abstention: Failure to vote or a "present" or "pass" vote shall be
considered an abstention. An abstention shall be considered as a concurrence
with the majority present and voting on the issue for which an abstention is
taken, but shall not be considered an affirmative vote on such issue. In no
event, however, shall an ordinance, resolution or motion requiring a
supermajority vote be adopted without the affirmative votes of a majority of
the board members then holding office.
   E.   Results: The clerk shall announce the result of all votes by "yeas" and
"nays" and no vote shall be changed after the results have been so announced.
   F.   Omnibus Vote: The board may, by unanimous consent as recorded in a
motion, agree to take a single vote by "yeas" and "nays" on the question of the
passage of two (2) or more designated ordinances, orders, resolutions or
motions. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-15: RECONSIDERATION:
   A.   Timing Of Reconsideration: A vote may be reconsidered at any time
during the same meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A
motion for reconsideration, once having been made and decided in the negative,
shall not be renewed. No motion to reconsider the approval or denial of the
recommendation of an advisory body required to hold public hearings shall be
entertained except at the same meeting at which the original action was taken
or after the matter has been referred to the advisory body for a further
hearing and recommendation. When a motion to reconsider such a motion is made
at the same meeting as the passage of the original motion, it may be tabled to
a later date certain.
   B.   Motion To Reconsider: A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded
by members who voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered,
unless otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has
received a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the
ground that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for
the passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case a motion to
reconsider may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative
on such question to be reconsidered, so long as the issue presented is the
same, no new information is forthcoming, and rights of third parties have not
intervened. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-16: JOURNAL OF MINUTES; READING:
   A.   Journal: The county clerk shall keep a journal of the minutes of the
proceedings of the board.
   B.   Reading: Unless a member of the board requests a reading of the minutes
of a board meeting, such minutes may be approved without reading if the county
clerk has previously furnished each member with a copy of the minutes. (Ord.,
10-14-2008)
1-5-17: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Style: The style of all ordinances shall be "BE IT ORDAINED BY THE Jo
Daviess County Board" as is provided by statute.
   B.   Introduction, Sponsor: Ordinances, resolutions, and other matters or
subjects requiring action by the board must be introduced and sponsored by a
committee or member of the board, except that the county administrator or
state's attorney may present ordinances, resolutions and other matters or
subjects to the board and any board member may assume sponsorship by moving
that such ordinances, resolutions, matters or subjects be adopted; otherwise,
they shall not be considered.
   C.   Final Passage: Ordinances may be considered for final passage on the
same day on which it is introduced if a committee is recommending such
ordinance for approval or if two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the board agree
to passage on the day of introduction.
   D.   Subject Matter: No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject,
which subject shall be clearly expressed in its title, and no ordinances or
section shall be amended or repealed unless the new ordinance contains the
title of the ordinance or section amended or repealed. When practicable, all
ordinances shall be introduced as amendments to existing ordinances.
   E.   Signatures Required: The chairman and the county clerk shall sign all
ordinances passed by the board.
   F.   Publication Of Penalties: All ordinances imposing any penalty for a
violation or making any appropriation shall be published as required by
statute, either in a newspaper or in pamphlet form, in such case, the ordinance
in its pamphlet shall be displayed for a reasonable period in a public place in
the county courthouse.
   G.   Effective Date: No ordinance which must be published to comply with the
foregoing section shall go into effect until ten (10) days after it is so
published unless a statement of the urgency of the ordinance is contained in it
and it achieves passage by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members of the
corporate authorities then holding office. In all other cases, the ordinances
shall go into effect upon the passage as provided by statute, even though the
operation of the ordinance may not take effect until a later date. (Ord., 10-
14-2008)
1-5-18: ADOPTION OF ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER NEWLY REVISED:
The rules of parliamentary practice contained in the latest published edition
of "Robert's Rules Of Order Newly Revised", shall govern the board in all cases
to which they are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the
special rules of the board or the statutes or laws of the state. (Ord., 10-14-
2008)
1-5-19: TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF RULES; AMENDMENTS OF RULES:
These rules may be temporarily suspended by vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the
board members entitled by law to be elected, and shall not be repealed, altered
or amended, unless by concurrence of two-thirds (2/3) of all the board members
entitled by law to be elected. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-20: CENSURE OF MEMBERS:
Any member acting or appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses
opprobrious, obscene or insulting language to or about any member of the board,
or who does not obey the order of the presiding officer shall be, on motion,
censured by a majority vote of the corporate authorities. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-21: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees: The following shall be the standing committees of
the board:
      1.   Development and planning.
      2.   Executive.
      3.   Finance, tax and budgets.
      4.   Law enforcement and courts.
      5.   Public works.
      6.   Social and environmental.
      7.   Information and communications technology.
      8.   Legislative.
   B.   Committee Jurisdiction: The jurisdiction of committees shall be that as
defined from time to time by resolution of the board. All new issues or topics
that come to the attention of the county for consideration which do not clearly
and reasonably fall within the jurisdiction of a committee shall be assigned to
a committee by the county board chairperson.
   C.   Appointment: Upon recommendation of the chairperson, the board shall
appoint committee members, committee chairs, and committee vice chairs every
two (2) years at the December organizational meeting of the board. The
committee vice chair will preside at all committee meetings when the committee
chair is not present.
   D.   Special Committees; Appointment: Special committees may be established
by the board from time to time to consider special questions of policy,
procedure, or practice. At the time of establishment, the board shall specify
the scope and purpose of the work of the special committee and a reasonable
time schedule for the special committee to complete its work. A special
committee shall make its final report to the board in writing and shall
thereafter cease to exist unless specifically authorized by the board to
continue to work on the assigned subject. The membership of special committees
shall be appointed by the board upon recommendation of the chairperson and
shall consist of the number of members deemed appropriate by the board to
properly carry out the work of the committee.
   E.   Committee Procedures: To the extent that they are applicable, standing
and special committees shall observe the rules of proceedings of the board when
conducting official business of the committee. If the chairperson of a standing
committee is unable to attend a meeting of the executive committee then the
committee chairperson may request the vice chair of the committee to attend in
his/her place. If the vice chair attends the executive committee meeting as
requested he/she shall be given authority to vote on business of the executive
committee. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
1-5-22: VISITORS:
   A.   Addressing The Board: Except during the time allotted for public
comment, no person, other than a member of the board, shall address that body,
except with the consent of the presiding officer.
   B.   Identification: Each person addressing the board shall give his/her
name and address in an audible tone of voice for the record and shall limit
his/her remarks to no more than three (3) minutes. All remarks shall be
addressed to the board as a body and not to any one member. No person, other
than the board and person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into
any discussion, either directly or through a member of the board, without the
permission of the presiding officer. No question shall be asked a board member
except through the presiding officer. (Ord., 10-14-2008)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY DEPARTMENTS AND OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Convention And Visitors Bureau
1-6-2: County Administrator
1-6-3: Part-Time Police Officer
1-6-1: CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU:
   A.   Bureau Created: There is hereby created a department of the County
known as the Convention and Visitors Bureau, hereinafter referred to as the
"bureau". (Ord., 3-9-1999)
   B.   Executive Director: The position of "Executive Director" is hereby
created to provide management, direction and supervision for the bureau and to
perform the duties and responsibilities contained in a position description
approved by the County Board. The Executive Director shall be appointed by the
Chairperson of the County Board with the advice and consent of the Convention
and Visitors Bureau (CVB) Board. (Ord., 11-27-2007)
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities: The bureau shall be responsible for:
      1.   Developing and implementing plans, programs, projects, and events
that encourage tourism in and overnight visitors to the County.
      2.   Developing and producing publications, advertising materials, and
other means that promote or otherwise advance the County as an attractive place
to visit or to conduct meetings, sporting events, festivals or conventions.
      3.   Assisting the County's communities and hotel, travel and hospitality
industries in promotional or informational activity designed to increase
tourism in and attract tourists and visitors to the County. (Ord., 3-9-1999)
      4.   Providing staff support to the CVB Board. (Ord., 3-9-1999; amd.
Ord., 11-27-2007)
      5.   Performing such other functions and activities in addition to the
foregoing as may be determined from time to time by the County Board. (Ord., 3-
9-1999)
   D.   Review Of Provisions: This section shall be reviewed by the County
Board on or before May 1, 2002, and every three (3) years thereafter. (Ord., 3-
9-1999; amd. Ord., 8-14-2001)
1-6-2: COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Office Created; Qualifications: The Office of County Administrator is
hereby created. The County Administrator shall be a person having demonstrated
administrative and executive ability as shown by experience in public or
private employment in a responsible administrative or executive position
requiring the planning and execution of work programs of administrative
operations, the budgeting and control of expenditures, and the coordination of
varied activities.
   B.   Appointment: The County Administrator shall be appointed by the County
Board and shall serve at the pleasure of the board, subject to such employment
conditions and procedures as may be provided by law.
   C.   Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   The County Administrator shall generally advise, assist, act as
agent for, and be responsible to the County Board for the proper and efficient
administration of such affairs of the County as are placed in his or her charge
by the Board. He or she shall be responsible for the enforcement of such
ordinances, orders, or regulations as may be directed by the Board by ordinance
or resolution. All appointed department heads under the jurisdiction of the
Board shall submit appropriate informational reports to the County
Administrator upon request.
      2.   The County Administrator shall be responsible for all duties and
responsibilities and shall meet the qualifications required in and as described
in the most current position description for the position of County
Administrator as adopted by the County Board as a part of the County personnel
policy.
      3.   The County Administrator may employ such clerical and administrative
personnel as may be authorized by the County Board.
   D.   Limit Of Authority: It is the intention of the County Board in adopting
this section only to create a position to which may be delegated certain
administrative and ministerial duties in and under its direction. No provision
of this section is intended to vest in or grant to the County Administrator any
duty or any authority which is vested by general law or ordinance in any other
County officer, official, or employee. No provision of this section shall be
construed to delegate to the County Administrator any authority reserved to the
County Board by law; nor shall the County Administrator have the power to bind,
obligate, or commit the County in any manner except as provided herein or by
the express grant of authority by the County Board. (Ord., 7-9-1996)
1-6-3: PART-TIME POLICE OFFICER:
   A.   Employment: The Sheriff of the County of Jo Daviess, Illinois, may
employ part-time police officers (deputy sheriffs) from time to time as he
deems necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Sheriff of Jo Daviess County, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Sheriff of Jo Daviess County. Part-time police officers
serve at the discretion of the Sheriff of Jo Daviess County, Illinois, and
shall not have any property rights in said employment, and may be removed by
the Jo Daviess County Sheriff at any time. Part-time police officers shall
comply with all applicable rules and general orders issued by the Jo Daviess
County Sheriff's Office. (Ord. 2017-3, 3-14-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Definitions
1-7-2: Prohibited Political Activities
1-7-3: Gift Ban
1-7-4: Ethics Advisor
1-7-5: Ethics Commission
1-7-6: Penalties
1-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given these
definitions:
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Means any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any Federal, State, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of Presidential or
Vice-Presidential electors, but does not include activities: a) relating to the
support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action,
b) relating to collective bargaining, or c) that are otherwise in furtherance
of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: Means a person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the Election Code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act 2 .
COMPENSATED TIME: Means, with respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Means authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the Election Code 3 .
EMPLOYEE: Means a person employed by the County, whether on a fulltime or part
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
EMPLOYER: Means the County of Jo Daviess.
GIFT: Means any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan,
forbearance, or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value
including, but not limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking
engagements related to or attributable to government employment or the official
position of an officer or employee.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Means any period during which an employee does not receive:
a) compensation for employment, b) service credit towards pension benefits, and
c) health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: Means a person who holds, by election or appointment, an office
created by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is
compensated for service in his or her official capacity.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Means any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: a) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, b) relating to collective bargaining, or
c) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: Means a party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk under
section 9-3 of the Election Code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Means:
   A.   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political meeting,
political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including but not limited to the purchase of,
selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Means any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by an officer or 2) by an employee, or
by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the officer or 2) with
an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the officer or 2) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has an interest that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord.
2018-2, 1-9-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 2. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-7-2: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of Jo Daviess
County in connection with any prohibited political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: 1) as
part of that officer or employee's duties, 2) as a condition of employment, or
3) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time
off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or 2) in a position the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by Federal funds and that is subject to the Federal
Standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration applicable to grant-
in-aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2018-2, 1-9-
2018)
1-7-3: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Gift Ban: Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   B.   Exceptions: Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the
following:
      1.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public.
      2.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      3.   Any: a) contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code
or b) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      4.   Educational materials and missions.
      5.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      6.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son- in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half-brother, half-
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
      7.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: a) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; b)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and c) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members.
      8.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: a) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or b) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
      9.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
      10.   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose of
this chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "inter-governmental gift" means
any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
      11.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      12.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00). Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 2018-2, 1-9-2018)
1-7-4: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   The Chairperson of the County Board with the advice and consent of the
County Board shall designate an Ethics Advisor for Jo Daviess County. The
duties of the Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of Jo
Daviess County unless the position has been created as an office by Jo Daviess
County.
   B.   The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and employees
of Jo Daviess County concerning the interpretation of and compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and State Ethics Laws. The Ethics Advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the County Board. (Ord. 2018-
2, 1-9-2018)
1-7-5: ETHICS COMMISSION:
   A.   Commission Established: There is hereby created a commission to be
known as the Ethics Commission of Jo Daviess County. The commission shall be
comprised of three (3) members appointed by the Chairperson of the County Board
with the advice and consent of the County Board. No person shall be appointed
as a member of the commission who is related, either by blood or by marriage up
to the degree of first cousin, to any elected officer of Jo Daviess County. No
more than two (2) members of the commission shall belong to the same political
party at the time such appointments are made. Party affiliation shall be
determined by affidavit of the person appointed.
   B.   Terms Of Commissioners: At the first meeting of the commission, the
initial appointees shall draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two (2)
Commissioners shall serve 2-year terms, and the third Commissioner shall serve
a one-year term. Thereafter, all Commissioners shall be appointed to 2-year
terms. Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms. At the first
meeting of the commission, the Commissioners shall choose a Chairperson from
their number. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson or any two
(2) Commissioners. A quorum shall consist of two (2) Commissioners, and
official action by the commission shall require the affirmative vote of two (2)
members.
   C.   Removal From Commission: The Chairperson of the County Board, with the
advice and consent of the County Board, may remove a Commissioner in case of
incompetency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office after service on the
Commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested, of a copy of the
written charges against the Commissioner and after providing an opportunity to
be heard in person or by counsel upon not less than ten (10) days' notice.
Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      1.   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers.
      2.   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with section
1-7-6 of this chapter and refer violations of section
1-7-2 or
1-7-3 of this chapter to the appropriate attorney for prosecution. The
commission shall, however, act only upon the receipt of a written complaint
alleging a violation of this chapter and not upon its own prerogative.
      3.   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of Jo Daviess County to cooperate with the commission
during the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with
requests by the commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or
discharge.
      5.   The powers and duties of the commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
   E.   Complaints:
      1.   Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the Ethics Commission.
      2.   Within three (3) business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three (3) business days after receipt by the commission. The notices to
the respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time,
and place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      3.   Upon not less than forty eight (48) hours' public notice, the
commission shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the
complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to
determine whether there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by
the complainant, to proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the
extent authorized by the Open Meetings Act. The commission shall issue notice
to the complainant and the respondent of the commission's ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven (7) business days after receiving the complaint. If the complaint
is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of section
1-7-3 of this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
commission's notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four (4) weeks after the complaint's receipt. Alternatively, the
commission may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the
Corporate Authorities to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint
be adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege
a violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public. If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
section
1-7-2 of this chapter then the commission shall notify in writing the attorney
designated by the Corporate Authorities to prosecute such actions and shall
transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the
custody of the commission concerning the alleged violation.
      4.   On the scheduled date and upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
public notice of the meeting, the commission shall conduct a hearing on the
complaint and shall allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and
evidence. The hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the
Open Meetings Act.
      5.   Within thirty (30) days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the commission shall either: a) dismiss the complaint or
b) issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator and to the
Chairperson of the County Board, or other officer having authority to
discipline the officer or employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or
both. The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for discipline,
and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
      6.   If the hearing was closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven (7) business
days after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within fourteen (14) days after receiving the demand,
the commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least
forty eight (48) hours' public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the
opportunity to present testimony and evidence. Within seven (7) days
thereafter, the commission shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the
alleged violator and to the Chairperson of the County Board or other officer
having authority to discipline the officer or employee or impose a fine upon
the violator, or both.
      7.   If a complaint is filed during the sixty (60) days preceding the
date of any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the commission
shall render its decision as required under subsection E5 of this section
within seven (7) days after the complaint is filed, and during the seven (7)
days preceding that election, the commission shall render such decision before
the date of that election, if possible.
      8.   The commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-7-3 of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one dollars
($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The commission
may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter in an amount of not less than one thousand one
dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The
commission may recommend any appropriate discipline up to and including
discharge.
      9.   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation. (Ord. 2018-2, 1-9-2018)
1-7-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7-2 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
1-7-3 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
State's Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-7-2 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for Jo Daviess County by filing in the Circuit Court information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
A violation of section
1-7-3 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the County, or, if an Ethics Commission has been created, by the
commission through the designated administrative procedure.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-7-2 or
1-7-3 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 2018-2, 1-9-
2018)
TITLE 2
FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose And Application
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Administration And Enforcement
2-1-4: Purchase Authorization
2-1-5: Purchase Orders/Claims
2-1-6: Formal Purchasing Procedures
2-1-7: Open Market Purchasing Procedures
2-1-8: Warrants And Miscellaneous Procedures
2-1-9: Petty Cash Expenditures Revolving Fund
2-1-10: Postage
2-1-11: Emergency Purchases
2-1-12: Conflict Of Interest
2-1-13: Gift Ban 1  (Rep. by Ord. 2018-2, 1-9-2018)
2-1-14: Statewide Purchasing Program
2-1-15: Cooperative Purchasing
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-7-3 of this Code.
2-1-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the Jo Daviess County purchasing procedures
policy is:
      1.   To make the most efficient use of taxpayers' dollars;
      2.   To ensure the conservation of public funds by approving purchases in
advance;
      3.   To maximize the purchasing value of public funds in procurement, to
the fullest extent practicable, while giving consideration to the lifetime cost
as well as other factors needed to determine the best overall value to the
County;
      4.   To manage the procurement process in accordance with the law;
      5.   To buy the correct equipment, materials, goods or services required;
      6.   To purchase the optimum quantity so as to avoid overstocking or
emergency shortages;
      7.   To provide guidelines for purchasing equipment, materials, supplies,
and services for the operational requirements of Jo Daviess County that ensures
competitive and unbiased selection of vendors.
   B.   Application: This chapter applies to contracts for procurement of
goods, services, construction, and professional services entered into by the
County after the effective date hereof. It shall apply to every expenditure of
public funds by a County agency for public purchasing irrespective of its
source, except as otherwise provided by the State law and State regulation.
When the procurement involves the expenditure of State or Federal assistance or
contract funds, the procurement shall be conducted in accordance with any
applicable mandatory State and/or Federal law. Certain officers and agencies
may have independent statutory authority to purchase their own goods and
services. These officers and agencies are encouraged to participate in the
County purchasing program. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any County
officer or agency from complying with the terms and conditions of any grant,
gift, bequest, or cooperative purchasing agreement that is otherwise consistent
with law.
   C.   Local Vendors: The County Board prefers to transact County purchases
with local vendors and service providers when competitive market conditions
exist.
   D.   Singular, Plural And Gender Rules:
      1.   Singular, Plural: When not inconsistent with the context, words used
in the present tense include the future, words in the plural number include the
singular number, and words in the singular number include the plural number.
      2.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnership, and corporations as well as to
males. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings set forth below whenever they appear in
this section. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
ARCHITECT, ENGINEER, AND LAND SURVEYING SERVICES: Those professional services
within the practice of architecture, professional engineering, structural
engineering, or land surveying, as defined by the state of Illinois
professional services selection act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 510/1 et
seq.
BLANKET BIDDING: Bids normally prepared and issued for purchases of
commodities, supplies, food, and equipment, generally intended for usage of
more than one department. These bids may be considered as purchasing contracts
for a set period of time, generally three (3) months to three (3) years. State
of Illinois central management services (CMS) contracts or other joint bids
would be considered blanket bids as long as the bidding process was conducted
on a competitive open bid process.
BUSINESS: Any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint
venture, or any other private legal entity.
CAPITALIZED FIXED ASSET: Any fixed asset that to comply with GASB 34 should be
capitalized at the time of acquisition and meets the designated thresholds and
criteria for capitalizing per the guidelines of the Jo Daviess County fixed
asset management policy.
CHANGE ORDER: Any written alteration in specifications, delivery points,
delivery terms, contract period, price, quantity, or other provisions of any
contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION: Any information which is available to an employee
only because of the employee's status as an employee of the county and is not a
matter of public knowledge or available to the public on request pursuant to
the Illinois freedom of information act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/1 et
seq.
CONSTRUCTION: The process of building, altering, repairing, improving,
demolishing, or making improvements of any kind to any structure, building, or
real property.
CONTRACT: All types of county agreements, regardless of what they may be
called, for the procurement of goods, services, construction, or professional
services.
CONTRACT FILE: A record maintained by a county agency; documents may include a
purchase order, contract documents, and/or related correspondence.
CONTRACTOR: Any person or entity that is a party or beneficiary of a contract
with the county or through a using agency thereof.
CONTRACTUALLY REQUIRED DOCUMENTATION: Documents required in the contract or
necessary for contract implementation that may include, but not limited to,
certificates of insurance and bid bonds.
COOPERATIVE PURCHASING: Procurement conducted by or on behalf of more than one
public procurement unit.
COUNTY AGENCY: A county officer, employee, department, office, committee, or
agency whose purchasing authority is subject to the Jo Daviess County board.
DEPARTMENT: An organizational subdivision of Jo Daviess County government.
DEPARTMENT HEADS: The individuals assigned administrative responsibility for a
department, including elected office holders.
EMPLOYEE: Individuals including elected and appointed officials providing
services for the county and drawing a salary from the county.
FIXED ASSET: An asset of a permanent nature required for the normal conduct of
business, and which will not normally be converted into cash during the ensuing
fiscal year. Land, buildings, and furniture are all examples of fixed assets.
GOODS AND SERVICES: All tangible articles and services which shall be furnished
to or used by any agency of the county. These include, but may not be limited
to, maintenance, repairs, and operation supplies, commodities, physical
computer software, independent contractual services, and any equipment
necessary to sustain day to day county operations.
IMPROVEMENTS: An addition or betterment to a fixed asset or the replacement by
a better component of a fixed asset. Additions, betterments and replacements by
a better component are expected to extend the useful life of the fixed asset.
INVITATION FOR BID: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting sealed bids.
INVOICE: A bill for goods or services furnished by a seller to a buyer
specifying one price and the terms of sale.
IRRESPONSIBLE VENDOR/BIDDER: Any bidder, vendor, contractor, supplier, or
prospective bidder who fails to furnish proof of his responsibility; who has,
as a contractor or vendor for the county, repeatedly failed to meet the needs,
requirements and/or specifications of the using agency. It also includes any
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
LOCAL BIDDER: A firm or individual who regularly maintains a place of business
and transacts business in, or maintains inventory or merchandise for sale in,
or is licensed by, or pays business taxes to, the county.
LOW COST/RESPONSIBLE BIDDER: The bid providing the best long term value for the
county. The evaluation to determine the best long term value may include:
quality of offer, conformity with specifications, delivery date and terms,
discount terms, service reputation, total cost of the item over its useful
life, and conditions of warranty.
PARENT COMMITTEE: A standing committee of the Jo Daviess County board which has
been assigned to oversee the operations of a particular department.
PROCUREMENT: The buying, purchasing, using, renting, leasing, or otherwise
acquiring of goods, services, construction, or professional services. It also
includes all functions pertaining to the obtaining of any goods, services,
construction, or professional services, including descriptions of requirements,
selection, and solicitations of sources, preparation and award of contract, and
all phases of contract administration.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: The service of any person possessing a high degree of
professional skill where the judgment, artistic or subjective talent, ability,
experiences, qualifications, and fitness of the provider(s) play an important
part in the selection and primary reason for the service provided, other than
those described in the Illinois professional services selection act, 50
Illinois Compiled Statutes 510/1 et seq.
PUBLIC WORKS: All fixed works constructed by any public body, other than work
done directly by any public utility company, as defined in the Illinois
prevailing wage act 1 .
PURCHASE ORDER/CLAIM: The document used to process the procurement of all goods
and services. All purchase orders/claims are to be processed electronically
into the county's financial system and submitted in hard copy form to the
county clerk's office when the corresponding invoice or bill associated with
the transaction becomes available.
PURCHASE REQUISITION: An internal request for the creation of a purchase order/
claim that depending on the estimated amount of the request is submitted to the
appropriate department head and/or county administrator to buy goods, material
or services. A purchase requisition is used to preencumber funding and to
initiate the purchasing process where the vendor and price are not yet known.
RENEWALS: Expenses related to the overhauling or rebuilding of a fixed asset,
or part thereof.
REPLACEMENTS: Substitutions which are not expected to extend the useful life of
a fixed asset.
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, utilized for soliciting proposals.
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER FOR CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS: A bidder who meets all of the
following applicable criteria, and submits evidence of such compliance: a) all
applicable laws prerequisite to doing business in the state, b) evidence of
compliance with the following: federal employer tax identification number and
social security number, for individuals and compliance with the equal
opportunity employer act, c) compliance with the Jo Daviess County certificate
of insurance policy, d) compliance with all provisions of the Illinois
prevailing wage act, including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance and
retirement for those trades as covered in the act.
RESPONSIBLE BIDDER OR OFFEROR: Any bidder, vendor, contractor, supplier, or
prospective bidder who has submitted a bid conforming in all material respects
to the requirements set forth in the invitation to bid and has the capability
in all respects to perform fully the contract requirements, and the experience,
personnel, integrity, reliability, facilities capacity, equipment, acceptable
past performance, and credit which will assure good faith performance.
SERVICES: The furnishing of labor, time, or effort by a contractor, not
involving the delivery of a specific end product other than reports which are
merely incidental to the required performance. This definition shall apply to
employment agreements, collective bargaining agreements, or to the definition
of "professional services" as provided in this section.
SPECIAL FUNDS: Any of the appropriated funds in the county's budget, other than
the general corporate fund, the general capital investment fund and the general
capital equipment fund.
SPECIFICATIONS: Any description of the physical or functional characteristics
or the nature of a good, service, construction item, or professional service.
It may also include a description of any requirement for inspecting, testing,
or preparing goods, services, construction projects, or professional services.
STRINGING: Multiple payments and purchases of the same goods or service made
within the appropriation period.
SURPLUS PROPERTY: Any items including supplies, equipment, vehicles, furniture,
real estate, or any item of value owned by Jo Daviess County that is no longer
providing a useful purpose to the using agency.
TOTAL LOSS: The cost of repair to a damaged fixed asset exceeds the actual cash
value of said fixed asset in its predamaged condition, as determined and
reported to the county board, through the parent committee, by the county
administrator.
USED EQUIPMENT: Equipment that is: a) at least one year old; or, if a vehicle,
has at least ten thousand (10,000) miles of previous use or two hundred (200)
motor hours; b) a floor or demonstration model that is offered at a price at
least twenty five percent (25%) below current market price; or c) otherwise
determined by the purchasing agent, on a case basis, to be bona fide used
equipment.
USING AGENCY: Any county agency or department requiring goods, services,
construction, or professional services procured pursuant to this chapter. (Ord.
2011-4, 5-10-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 130/2.
2-1-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration And Enforcement: The county administrator, or his
designee, shall be responsible for the proper administration and enforcement of
this chapter and, in so doing, shall have the authority to promulgate such
rules, regulations, procedures and forms as may be necessary to assure its
effective operation.
   B.   County Administrator: The county board is primarily responsible for the
expenditure of all county funds. While the county board approves purchase
order/claims on a monthly basis and has the legal authority to purchase
equipment, materials, supplies, and services, the county board has delegated
certain purchasing functions and authority to the county administrator.
   C.   Department Heads: The county board has also delegated partial
responsibility to the various department heads. Each department head shall be
responsible for procurement of commodities or services required by his/her
department in accordance with this policy statement. Adherence to this policy
will enable the county to maintain a decentralized purchasing process monitored
by the county board and the county administrator.
   D.   Review: Department heads shall request the state's attorney's office to
review all first time contracts with anticipated annual obligations exceeding
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-4: PURCHASE AUTHORIZATION:
Subject to the provisions of this chapter and within approved budgetary
authority, goods and services required for department operations may be
purchased by department heads subject to the following:
   A.   Authority To Obligate County Funds:
      1.   The county board chair, or his/her designee, is authorized to
execute all contracts and contract renewals explicitly approved by the county
board. When necessary change orders are twenty percent (20%) or less of the
total project cost, the county administrator with the approval of the county
board chair can authorize the change; the county board is to be informed of the
change at their next meeting. Change orders over twenty percent (20%) of the
project total cost will require county board approval.
      2.   Department heads are authorized to execute approved contracts,
contract renewals and maintenance agreements in accordance with the standards
set forth in this chapter.
      3.   Funds and accounting. Prior to the purchase approval or contract
approval of any goods and services or item or combination of items, the
responsible department head with signatory authority shall ensure sufficient
funds are available in the approved budget and in the appropriate line item
accounts in which payments are intended to be charged before county funds are
encumbered.
   B.   Purchasing Limits:
      1.   For individual obligations of up to five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) per year, department heads are authorized to procure and obligate
funds within the constraints of the department's annual budget without
additional authorization.
      2.   For individual obligations of more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) per year not to exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per year,
with approval from the county administrator for all purchases within this cost
interval prior to initiating any transaction.
      3.   For individual obligations of more than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) per year not to exceed, twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) per
year, with the approval of the parent committee. Each department head shall
receive approval from the parent committee for all purchases within this cost
interval prior to initiating any transaction.
      4.   For individual obligations of more than twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) per year, with the approval of the county board. Each department
head shall receive approval from the county board for all purchases with this
cost interval. The county administrator and/or the department head shall then
obtain county board approval prior to initiating any transaction.
      5.   Procurements of goods and services shall not be artificially divided
in order to evade the above thresholds.
      6.   Approval discretion: At the discretion of the department head,
county administrator or parent committee, any purchase or contract of an item,
notwithstanding the estimated cost, may be presented to the county board for
approval.
   C.   Open Purchase Orders:
      1.   Open purchase orders are the award of bids for goods/services which
are based on a fixed purchase price with ordering and delivery scheduled
throughout the fiscal year. An open or blanket purchase order may be issued to
a particular vendor by department heads. These types of purchase orders shall
ordinarily be issued where multiple purchases are made from a single vendor
within a specified time frame or for contractual payments. For example, annual
contracts that bill on a periodic basis throughout the year including software
maintenance agreements, advertising contracts, fuel contracts, vehicle
maintenance agreements, food service agreements, and equipment maintenance
agreements.
      2.   The county clerk's office will provide a quarterly report to all
departments showing open purchase orders. The county clerk's office will close
an open purchase order with authorization from the appropriate department head.
   D.   General Insurance Requirements:
      1.   It is the requirement of Jo Daviess County that for work performed
under contract and/or authorized by the county and conducted on county property
that the contractor/supplier procure and maintain insurance at the expense of
the contractor and without expense to the county, until final acceptance of the
work. All insurance must be procured and maintained in a form satisfactory to
the county.
      2.   Before a purchase order is released, a contract signed, or any work
commenced, contractors doing business with Jo Daviess County are required to
provide proof of insurance satisfactory to the county and documentation
evidencing that the contractor maintains insurance that meets the requirements
of the Jo Daviess County Certificate of Insurance Policy.
   E.   Contract Renewals:
      1.   For obligations of up to five thousand dollars ($5000.00) department
heads are authorized to obligate county funds within the constraints of the
department's annual budget to effectuate the purchase.
      2.   For obligations of more than five thousand dollars ($5000.00) per
year, up to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per year: With the consent of the
county administrator, the department head is authorized to obligate county
funds within the constraints of the department's annual budget to effectuate
the purchase.
      3.   For obligations from ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per year to
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) per year: With the consent of the parent
committee, the department head is authorized to obligate county funds within
the constraints of the department's annual budget to effectuate the purchase.
      4.   For obligations in excess of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00)
per year: The county board shall explicitly approve all contract renewals.
      5.   If the contract renewal includes provision changes said contract
shall be reviewed by the state's attorney's office.
   F.   Change Orders And Other Modifications:
      1.   The following types of change orders must be presented to the county
board for its consideration and approval:
         a.   A change order to an obligation originally and explicitly awarded
by the county board.
         b.   A change order related to a project that affects more than one
department's annual budget or deliverables.
         c.   A change order to an obligation which originally did not require
the county board's explicit approval and now with said change order the total
obligation exceeds twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
      2.   The following types of change orders must be presented to the parent
committee for its consideration and approval:
         a.   A change order to an obligation which originally required the
committee's consent within the constraints of the department's annual budget.
         b.   A change order to an obligation which originally did not require
the committee's consent and now with said change order the total obligation
exceeds five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
         c.   All other change orders may be approved by the using department
head within the constraints of the department's annual budget provided the
total cost of the obligation including the change order does not exceed five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011; Ord. O2021-3, 7-13-2021)
 
2-1-5: PURCHASE ORDERS/CLAIMS:
   A.   Purchase Requisition:
      1.   The purchase requisition shall be the standard document utilized for
the systematic procurement of goods/services when the estimated monetary value
of the item or group of items exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      2.   The purchase requisition must have an authorized signature by the
requesting department head, or an authorized representative, before it may be
processed. The department head, or an authorized representative, on file with
the county clerk's office, shall be the only individuals who may sign purchase
requisitions for their department.
   B.   Responsibilities Of Department Head; Limitations:
      1.   Purchase order/claim forms shall be completed by the department head
or his designee for the purchase of all goods and services.
      2.   No goods and services shall be purchased for which funds are not
available within a department's approved budget without the prior authorization
of the county board.
      3.   Goods and services that have been ordered and received on or before
November 30 must have funds available in the current budget year for payment
within the first thirty (30) days of the new fiscal year. To ensure proper
accounting, any goods and services received after November 30 are considered
new fiscal year purchases and must have a purchase order/claim form completed
that indicates the proper accounting period and the original purchase order/
claim number.
      4.   All purchase order/claim forms shall be signed and approved by the
department head and turned into the county clerk's office on an ongoing basis.
      5.   The county board approves purchase order/claims once a month. To
ensure timely payment to vendors all purchase order/claim forms, except for
certain utility claims, shall be turned into the county clerk's office no later
than the first Tuesday of each month. Utility claims (telephone, electric, gas,
water, broadband, etc.) received at the beginning of the month for the prior
month may be submitted to county clerk's office until twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon of the day of the regular monthly county board meeting.
      6.   Mandatory obligations that require payment to vendors prior to the
regular monthly county board meeting should be submitted along with a written
report and purchase order/claim to the county administrator who will present to
the county board chair for approval. If considered mandatory and approved by
the county board chair said purchase order/claim will be submitted to the
county clerk's office for payment. Mandatory purchases are subject to final
approval of the Jo Daviess County board and shall be forwarded by the county
administrator to the Jo Daviess County board prior to the meeting date for
final approval.
   C.   Records: All purchase order/claim forms completed by each department
will have such purchase commitments entered into the financial management
system as an "encumbrance" against an appropriate budgetary account on an
ongoing basis. Such "encumbrance" will be removed when an invoice is entered
for payment for the purchased goods and/or services.
   D.   Procedures:
      1.   The county clerk's office is responsible for the accounts payable
function (claims). All purchase order/claims are to be submitted to the county
clerk's office when the corresponding invoice or bill associated with the
transaction becomes available. The county clerk's office is responsible for
entering all claims into the county's financial system.
      2.   Purchase orders/claims are to be filled out electronically on the
official purchase order/claim form provided by the county. Department heads are
responsible for all purchases made by their employees and are also responsible
for training employees about the county's purchasing process and the
requirements of this chapter.
      3.   The following information will be included on all county purchase
order/claim forms:
         a.   Detailed description of item requested;
         b.   Vendor name and number;
         c.   Quantity;
         d.   Cost per item;
         e.   Total cost;
         f.   (Expense) account number;
         g.   (Expense) account YTD balance; and
         h.   Any other such information as may be required.
      4.   All purchase order/claim forms shall have attached to them the
corresponding purchase requisition (if applicable) and invoice or bill
associated with the transaction when this documentation becomes available.
Invoices should reflect the purchase order number for cross reference.
Departments are responsible for maintaining a copy of all purchase order/claims
for their records.
   E.   Account Balances:
      1.   Budget Allocation: No department head has the authority to spend
more money in a budget year than was allocated by the county board to that
department or agency in the annual budget. The final audit will serve as the
basis for determining whether the department head has exceeded the budget
allocation.
      2.   Budget Warning Flag: If a department attempts to process a purchase
order/claim into the county's financial system and an unencumbered balance does
not exist or the amount of the purchase order/claim is more than is available
in the appropriate expense account line, a budget warning flag will appear and
the system will not allow the purchase order to be processed.
      3.   Department Head Responsibility And Department Procedures:
         a.   At no time will the department head spend more than the total
budgeted dollar amount allocated to their department without prior approval as
outlined in this chapter.
      4.   Parent Committee Responsibility:
         a.   The parent committee shall review and address concerns regarding
the current year to date budget position of the department when presented by
the department head.
      5.   Transfers: Transfers between funds are not allowed once the budget
has been adopted except for county board approved transfers from the
contingency fund.
         a.   Budget Expense Categories: Each individual general fund and
special fund expense budget is classified into four (4) major expense
categories:
            (1)   Class I - expense lines 401 to 499 are designated for salary
and fringe benefit costs;
            (2)   Class II - expense lines 501 through 799 are designated for
operational costs including commodities and contractual services;
            (3)   Class III - expense lines 800 through 899 are designated for
costs associated with capital outlay;
            (4)   Class IV - expense lines 901 through 990 are designated as
other costs including contingency and interfund transfers.
         b.   Line Item Transfer And Overage Policy:
            (1)   No purchase order/claim shall be authorized unless an
unencumbered balance exists in the appropriate expense account without the
approval of the county board or county administrator.
            (2)   The county administrator may approve the transfer of up to
five hundred dollars ($500.00) from one line item to another line item within
class II, class III, or class IV departmental budget lines when the county
administrator deems it reasonable and appropriate.
            (3)   All requests for the transfer of funds from or to any class I
expense line item must be approved by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the
county board.
            (4)   The county board may approve the transfer of funds, over five
hundred dollars ($500.00), within a departmental budget from one line item to
another when the county board deems it reasonable and appropriate.
            (5)   The county board may also approve expenses charged to expense
line items that have zero or negative balances when circumstances reasonably
warrant. Any authorization for an overage of more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) must be approved by the county board prior to initiating any
transaction. All transfers and transactions initiated under this subsection
shall be reported to the county finance, tax and budgets committee.
      6.   Claims Reporting:
         a.   A complete monthly claims report shall be distributed to each
county board member prior to the regular monthly county board meeting showing
all claims to be paid and said report shall identify the creditor, the
department or county official which purchased the goods or service, the fund
from which payment is to be made, the amount of payment to be made, and the
accounting period when the expense was incurred.
      7.   Approval Of Purchase Order/Claim With Negative Balance: If the
county board approves a purchase order/claim with a negative balance, it will
then be submitted to the county clerk's office, with the corresponding invoice,
for completion. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-6: FORMAL PURCHASING PROCEDURES:
When the estimated cost of goods and services exceeds twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) except as otherwise provided herein, all such goods and services
shall be purchased through formal bidding procedures from the lowest
responsible bidder.
   A.   Public Notice Requirements: Public notice inviting bids shall be
published once in at least one newspaper of general circulation on the east
side and one on the west side in the county and at least five (5) days
preceding the last day set for the receipt of bids. The public notice required
herein shall include a general description of the bid item, where bid blanks
and specifications may be secured, and the time and place assigned for receipt
of bids and opening of bids. No bid will be accepted after the time indicated
for receipt in the public notice.
   B.   Soliciting Bids: Bids may be solicited from all appropriate responsible
prospective bidders by sending them a copy of the newspaper notice or such
other notice as will acquaint them with the proposed purchase.
   C.   Bid Deposits: When deemed necessary, bid deposits shall be prescribed
in the public notice inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to a
prompt return of surety when such has been required. A successful bidder shall
forfeit any surety required upon failure to enter into a contract within ten
(10) days after award.
   D.   Bid Submission, Opening And Reading Procedures:
      1.   Sealed bids shall be submitted that appropriately identify the
commodity or service being bid on the outside of the envelope.
      2.   If the bid arrives at the place assigned for receipt prior to the
due date and time, the responsible department stamps or writes on the bid
envelope the accurate date and time of receipt. The responsible department
keeps all bids secure from access until the time of opening.
      3.   If the bid arrives at the place assigned for receipt after the due
date and time, the responsible department stamps or writes on the bid envelope
the time and date of receipt and retains it in the bid file, unopened, or
returns it unopened to the bidder. The bid cannot be accepted, but a record is
kept in the bid file of its late receipt and its disposition.
      4.   In fairness to all bidders, submission times will be strictly
adhered to, to the minute.
      5.   Receipt of a bid by the county mail system does not constitute
receipt of a properly received bid. Only sealed bids that arrive at the place
assigned for receipt by the due date and time are considered properly received.
However, a bid will not be considered late if it can be shown that the county
received the bid by the time indicated on the invitation to bids, but
internally, the bid was improperly handled and/or delivered.
      6.   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the
public notice. Bid openings are public actions and are open to attendance by
interested bidders and the public. No activity on the part of bidders at an
opening of a bid, other than attendance and note taking, is permitted. Any
attempt to qualify or change any bid by any bidder in attendance may result in
the rejection of that bidder's bid.
      7.   The department head who invited the submission of bids, or someone
designated by the department head, opens and orally reads the bids immediately
after the date and time shown on the request to bid at the place designated.
      8.   Reading only is required at a public opening, and the bid need not
be analyzed or indication given as to successful award. When the length of a
bid makes it impractical to read aloud, the public reading may be bypassed and
only the names of bidders announced.
      9.   A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted for public
inspection.
      10.   An abstract is prepared which includes who bid, what was bid, and
who was the successful bidder and why.
      11.   To provide for analysis and abstracting, official sealed bid
records may not be available for public inspection before the notice of intent
to award is issued or, in the case of requests for bids for commodities, before
the contract is awarded. Bids and other information pertinent to the bids are
made available to the public after the notice of intent to award has been
issued or, in the case of requests for bids for commodities, after the award
has been made.
   E.   Rejection Of Bids: Any one or more or all bids may be rejected where
the public interest will be served thereby.
   F.   Bidders In Default To County: A bid shall not be accepted from a bidder
who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies to the
county.
   G.   Award Of Contract: Contracts shall be awarded to the low cost/
responsible bidder. In determining the "low cost/responsible bidder", in
addition to price, the following shall be considered:
      1.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to provide the
supplies, equipment and service required.
      2.   Whether the bidder can provide the supplies, equipment and service
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference.
      3.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder.
      4.   The quality of performance of the bidder under previous contracts.
      5.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract.
      6.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the bidder
to perform the contract.
      7.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the goods and services
to be provided for the particular use required.
      8.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and services
if such is required by the contract.
      9.   The number and scope of conditions attached to a bid.
      10.   Conformity with specifications, delivery date and terms, discount
terms, and warranty conditions.
      11.   Total cost of item over its useful life.
      12.   The bid providing the best long term value for the county.
After the bid is awarded the using agency or the county administrator shall
issue all purchase orders, notice of awards, and notices to proceed. All
contractually required documentation is required prior to any notice to
proceed.
   H.   Award To Other Than Low Bidder: When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for awarding the
bid otherwise shall be prepared and filed with the other papers related to the
transaction.
   I.   Tie Bids:
      1.   Local Bidders: If two (2) or more bids are received for the same
total amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall
be awarded to a bidder whose place of business is located in the county.
      2.   Outside Bidders: Where subsection I1 of this section is not in
effect, if two (2) or more bids are received for the same total amount or unit
price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be awarded to one of
the tie bidders by drawing lots in public.
   J.   Performance Bond: A performance bond may be required, before entering
into a contract, in such amount as shall be deemed reasonably necessary to
protect the best interests of the county.
   K.   Prohibition Against Subdivision: No contract or purchase shall be
subdivided to avoid the requirements of this section. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-7: OPEN MARKET PURCHASING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Open Market Purchases: All purchases of goods and services of less than
an estimated value of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) may be made in the
open market without public notice and without observing the procedure
prescribed in section
2-1-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Minimum Quotation Requirements:
      1.   Procurements up to and including one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
may be obtained in a way that is in the best interest of the county. The
payment of these purchases shall be processed in the same manner as all other
invoices.
      2.   For purchases over one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and up to and
including five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), the using agency shall obtain
written/fax quotations from at least three (3) vendors whenever feasible. The
payment of these purchases shall be processed in the same manner as all other
invoices without additional authorization.
      3.   For purchases over five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and up to and
including twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), the using agency shall obtain
written/fax quotations from at least three (3) vendors whenever feasible or
obtain pricing from a current contract, product catalog, blanket bid, or joint
bid. The purchase authorization procedures for all goods and services within
these limits shall be the same as those set forth in subsections
2-1-4B2 and B3 of this chapter.
   C.   Notice Inviting Price Quotations:
      1.   Competitive price quotations for purchases of goods and services of
less than an estimated value of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) may be
solicited from appropriate responsible vendors by direct mail, telephone,
newspaper, website or other means of notification.
   D.   Records: A record shall be kept of all open market purchases and the
price quotations submitted thereon, and such records shall be open for public
inspection.
   E.   Evaluating Awards:
      1.   Typically, awards are made to the vendor with the low cost
responsible bid or quote. The low cost responsible bid is the bid or quote
considered to provide the best long term value for the county. In determining
the low cost responsible bid, in addition to price, the following evaluation
factors should be considered:
         a.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to provide the
supplies, equipment and service required.
         b.   Whether the bidder can provide the supplies, equipment and
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference.
         c.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder.
         d.   The quality of performance of the bidder under previous
contracts.
         e.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract.
         f.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract.
         g.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the goods and
services to be provided for the particular use required.
         h.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
services if such is required by the contract.
         i.   The number and scope of conditions attached to a bid.
         j.   Conformity with specifications, delivery date and terms, discount
terms, and warranty conditions.
         k.   Total cost of item over its useful life.
         l.   The bid providing the best long term value for the county.
      2.   If an award exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) is made to a
vendor who did not offer the low quote or bid, the reason(s) shall be reduced
to writing and be retained in the contract file maintained by the purchasing
agency. A quote that exceeds the twenty thousand dollar ($20,000.00) limit
shall not be eligible for award under this section.
   F.   Sole/Single Source Procurements: From time to time circumstances may
exist where the department head, county administrator or parent committee
determines that it is not feasible to secure three (3) quotations. In other
situations, the department head, county administrator, or parent committee may
determine that it is in the best interests of the county to consider only one
or two (2) suppliers having previous expertise relative to the procurement.
(Examples include, but are not limited to, procurements using state negotiated
pricing or a single vendor having unique abilities/capacities relative to the
procurement, like a maintenance agreement.) In these situations, the following
policies control:
      1.   For individual obligations of more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per year, up to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per
year: When the department head deems a sole/single source procurement best
serves the interests of the county, the reasons shall be reduced to writing,
copied to the county administrator and be retained in the contract file or be
attached to the invoice. With the consent of the county administrator, the
department head is approved to obligate county funds within the constraints of
the department's annual budget to effectuate the purchase.
      2.   For individual obligations between two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) per year to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per year: When the
department head deems a sole/single source procurement best serves the
interests of the county, the reasons shall be reported to the parent committee.
With the consent of the parent committee, the department head is approved to
obligate county funds within the constraints of the department's annual budget
to effectuate the purchase.
      3.   For obligations of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more: When
the parent committee deems a sole/single procurement best serves the interests
of the county, the reasons shall be reported to the county board for review and
action.
   G.   Noncompetitive Procurement: In addition to sole source procurement
under subsection F of this section, a contract may be awarded without
competition, as outlined in subsections F1, F2, and F3 of this section, when a
department head, with approval of the county administrator, determines in
writing, after conducting a good faith effort by reviewing the available
sources, that the contract by its very nature is not suitable to competitive
bids or proposals. When a department head and the county administrator both
determine that an award of a contract should be made by noncompetitive
procurement they shall submit copies of their determining factors in writing to
the parent committee. Examples of contracts, which may not be suitable for
competitive bids or proposals, are as follows:
      1.   There is only one source for the required supply, equipment,
service, construction item, or professional service;
      2.   A sole supplier's item that is required for trial use or testing;
      3.   Patented or proprietary items with only one manufacturer,
contractor, or dealer in the area;
      4.   Used equipment;
      5.   Auction purchases;
      6.   Certain maintenance contracts that are limited to only one source
for the highest qualified provider;
      7.   Emergency procurement, as defined in section
2-1-11 of this chapter;
      8.   Others, as determined by the parent committee and state's attorney.
(Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-8: WARRANTS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROCEDURES:
   A.   Warrants In Vacation:
      1.   The county clerk shall have standing authorization to issue warrants
in vacation in any amount when such warrants relate to payroll, pension
expense, life or health insurance premium expense, county recorder's revenue
stamps, tax redemptions, refunds, and all items or services previously approved
by county board action, for which there are sufficient funds.
   B.   County Administrator:
      1.   The county administrator shall establish and maintain procedures for
processing nonpayroll claims. Said processes shall include consideration of the
following mission critical components to claims processing:
         a.   Ensuring no budgeted line item is overdrawn.
         b.   Take a leading role with projects that affect more than one
department's annual budget or deliverables.
         c.   May recommend optional vendors and/or commodities/materials to
the using department if better pricing may be available via a current contract,
blanket bid or joint bid.
   C.   GIS/IT Coordinator: The GIS/IT coordinator shall ensure technological
procurements are compatible with county systems.
   D.   Computer And Telephone Equipment: All budgeted computer and telephone
equipment purchases and/or any system alterations may be purchased after
consultation with the GIS/IT coordinator and county administrator.
   E.   County Clerk: The county clerk shall perform the following functions in
regards to procurements:
      1.   Vendor maintenance.
      2.   Archive processed claims.
      3.   Prepare a monthly claims report for the county board.
   F.   Payroll Processing: The county clerk is authorized to establish,
implement and maintain a payroll processing and distribution system which
employs electronic depositing of payroll directly into an employee's personal
account of their choice. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-9: PETTY CASH EXPENDITURES REVOLVING FUND:
   A.   Fund Established:
      1.   Purchases of incidental supplies, equipment, and contractual
services with a value of less than fifty dollars ($50.00) may be made from a
petty cash expenditure revolving fund. Such fund may be established as follows:
         a.   Courthouse, to be maintained by the county treasurer: Three
hundred dollars ($300.00).
         b.   Sheriff's department, to be maintained by the sheriff: Five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
         c.   Health department, to be maintained by the public health
administrator: Three hundred dollars ($300.00).
         d.   Home healthcare department, to be maintained by the public health
administrator: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
         e.   Highway department, to be maintained by the county engineer: Two
hundred dollars ($200.00).
         f.   Convention and visitors bureau, to be maintained by the executive
director: Two hundred dollars ($200.00).
      2.   In addition to the foregoing, in the convention and visitors bureau,
a special petty cash fund in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) may
be established to pay shipping and handling charges for shipping promotional
materials. To minimize the use of this fund, whenever possible, billing
arrangements should be made to provide monthly billing of shipping and handling
expenses.
   B.   Records: At the end of each month, or more frequently if necessary, the
department head responsible for the maintenance of each petty cash fund shall
prepare a statement showing the actual expenditures from the petty cash
expenditures fund and shall prepare a claim to reimburse the fund for such
expenditures. The reimbursement statement shall include a brief description of
the item purchased, the proper account code, and the amount of the purchase.
Receipts and/or other supporting documentation for each purchase shall be
attached to the reimbursement statement. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-10: POSTAGE:
Due to normal operations of a department or departments, it may be necessary
from time to time during the month to purchase additional postage for a postage
machine. In such event, the department head responsible for the postage machine
shall prepare a claim to be processed through the county clerk's office to
purchase additional postage. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-11: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
   A.   An "emergency purchase" is procurement that is not normally possible
without the consent of the county board or designee but is required by
necessity during a time when such approval is not able to be sought. An
emergency purchase arises if immediate procurement is essential to prevent
delays which may vitally affect the life and health of citizens of the county.
Emergency purchases shall be classified as those purchases which ensure public
health and safety, protect public property, and limit county liability. An
emergency purchase may be authorized by a department head.
   B.   If circumstances and conditions necessitate an emergency purchase a
department head may purchase directly, without purchase order, any goods and
services whose immediate purchase is essential to prevent delays in the work to
avert such an emergency. Time and circumstance permitting, department heads
should first seek the approval of the county board chair or county
administrator, but should not thereby unduly delay an emergency purchase.
   C.   Following completion of work on an emergency purchase situation,
department heads shall retroactively and immediately follow up with normal
purchasing procedures and shall file a properly completed purchase order/claim
for all goods and services purchased for the emergency work and shall submit a
full written report of the circumstances of the emergency. Depending on the
cost of the goods and services purchased, appropriate purchase authorizations
shall be made and a purchase/claim order issued for the record.
   D.   Emergency purchases are subject to final approval of the Jo Daviess
County board and shall be forwarded by the county administrator to the Jo
Daviess County board prior to the meeting date for final approval. (Ord. 2011-
4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-12: CONFLICT OF INTEREST 1 :
   A.   No person holding any office, either by election or at appointment
under the laws or constitution of the state, may be in any manner financially
interested directly in his own name or indirectly in the name of any other
person, association, trust, or corporation in any contract or the performance
of any work in the making or letting of which such officer may be called upon
to act or vote. No such officer may represent, either as agent or otherwise,
any person, association, trust, or corporation with respect to any application
or bid for any contract or work in regard to which such officer may be called
upon to vote. Nor may any such officer take or receive, or offer to take or
receive, either directly or indirectly, any money or other thing of value as a
gift or bribe or means of influencing his vote or action in his official
character. Any contract made and procured in violation of this section is void.
This section shall not apply to any person serving on an advisory panel or
commission or to any director serving on a hospital district board as provided
under subsection (a-5) of section 13 of the hospital district law 2 .
   B.   However, any elected or appointed member of the governing body may
provide materials, merchandise, property, services, or labor, subject to the
following provisions under either subsection B1 or B2 of this section:
      1.   If:
         a.   The contract is with a person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, or cooperative association in which such interested member of the
governing body of the municipality has less than a seven and one-half percent
(71/2%) share in the ownership; and
         b.   Such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent
of his interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed award
of the contract; and
         c.   Such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the
contract, though he shall be considered present for the purposes of
establishing a quorum; and
         d.   Such contract is approved by a majority vote of those members
presently holding office; and
         e.   The contract is awarded after sealed bids to the lowest
responsible bidder if the amount of the contract exceeds one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), or awarded without bidding if the amount of the
contract is less than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00); and
         f.   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
      2.   If:
         a.   The award of the contract is approved by a majority vote of the
governing body of the municipality; provided, that any such interested member
shall abstain from voting; and
         b.   The amount of the contract does not exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000.00); and
         c.   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed four thousand dollars ($4,000.00); and
         d.   Such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent
of his interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed award
of the contract; and
         e.   Such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the
contract, though he shall be considered present for the purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   C.   In addition to the above exemptions, any elected or appointed member of
the governing body may provide materials, merchandise, property, services, or
labor if:
      1.   The contract is with a person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, or cooperative association in which the interested member of the
governing body of the municipality, advisory panel or commission has less than
a one percent (1%) share in the ownership; and
      2.   The award of the contract is approved by a majority vote of the
governing body of the municipality; provided, that any such interested member
shall abstain from voting; and
      3.   Such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent of
his interest before or during deliberations concerning the proposed award of
the contract; and
      4.   Such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the
contract, though he shall be considered present for the purposes of
establishing a quorum.
   D.   A contract for the procurement of public utility services by a public
entity with a public utility company is not barred by this section by one or
more members of the governing body of the public entity being an officer or
employee of the public utility company or holding an ownership interest of no
more than seven and one-half percent (71/2%) in the public utility company, or
holding an ownership interest of any size if the public entity is a
municipality with a population of less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500)
and the public utility's rates are approved by the Illinois commerce
commission. An elected or appointed member of the governing body of the public
entity having such an interest shall be deemed not to have a prohibited
interest under this section.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section or any other law to
the contrary, until January 1, 1994, a member of the city council of a
municipality with a population under twenty thousand (20,000) may purchase real
estate from the municipality, at a price of not less than one hundred percent
(100%) of the value of the real estate as determined by a written MAI certified
appraisal or by a written certified appraisal of a State certified or licensed
real estate appraiser, if the purchase is approved by a unanimous vote of the
City Council members then holding office (except for the member desiring to
purchase the real estate, who shall not vote on the question).
   F.   1. For the purposes of this section only, a municipal officer shall not
be deemed interested if the officer is an employee of a company or owns or
holds an interest of one percent (1%) or less in the municipal officer's
individual name in a company, or both, that company is involved in the
transaction of business with the municipality, and that company's stock is
traded on a nationally recognized securities market, provided the interested
member: a) publicly discloses the fact that he or she is an employee or holds
an interest of one percent (1%) or less in a company before deliberation of the
proposed award of the contract; b) refrains from evaluating, recommending,
approving, deliberating, or otherwise participating in negotiation, approval,
or both, of the contract, work, or business; c) abstains from voting on the
award of the contract, though he or she shall be considered present for
purposes of establishing a quorum; and d) the contract is approved by a
majority vote of those members currently holding office.
      2.   A County officer shall not be deemed interested if the officer owns
or holds an interest of one percent (1%) or less, not in the officer's
individual name but through a mutual fund, in a company, that company is
involved in the transaction of business with the County, and that company's
stock is traded on a nationally recognized securities market. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-
10-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 105/3.
2 1. 70 ILCS 910/13.
2-1-13: GIFT BAN 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 2018-2, 1-9-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-7-3 of this Code.
2-1-14: STATEWIDE PURCHASING PROGRAM:
Supplies, equipment, and contractual services may be purchased through the
Statewide purchasing program of Illinois Department of Central Management
Services or other State of Illinois agency conducting a similar purchasing
program without following the purchasing procedures contained herein. However,
department heads should assure themselves that purchases made through such
programs are resulting in the best possible product, service and price for the
purchases being made. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-1-15: COOPERATIVE PURCHASING:
The County Board or designee shall have the authority to join with other unit
(s) of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of
the County would be served thereby. Participation in such cooperative
purchasing plans shall supersede the need for formal and open market purchasing
procedures contained in this chapter. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 2
SANITARY LANDFILL FEES
SECTION:
2-2-1: Definitions
2-2-2: Fees Established; Disposition
2-2-3: Exemptions From Fee
2-2-4: Reports And Payments
2-2-5: Solid Waste Management Fund
2-2-6: Termination Of Operation
2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The Jo Daviess County health department administrator or his or
her designee.
AGENCY: The environmental protection agency as established by the Illinois
environmental protection act 1 .
COUNTY: Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste, or combination of wastes, which, because of its
quantity, concentration of physical, chemical or infectious characteristics,
significantly contributes to an increase in mortality or an increase in
serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or poses a
substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment when
improperly managed, and which has been identified, by characteristics or
listings, as hazardous pursuant to section 3001 of the resource conservation
and recovery act of 1976, P.L. 94-580 (42 USCA section 6291) or pursuant to
board regulations.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A facility permitted by the agency for the disposal of waste
on land meeting the requirements of the resource conservation recovery act,
P.L. 94-580 (41 USCA section 6901 et seq.) and regulations thereunder, and
without creating nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, by confining
the refuse to the smaller practical volume and covering it with a layer of
earth at the conclusion of each day's operation, or by such other methods and
intervals as the board may provide by regulation.
SOLID WASTE: Includes demolition materials, garbage, garden trash, landscape
wastes, mixed refuse, noncombustible refuse, rubbish and trash, as those terms
are defined in sections 3.01 through 3.07 of the solid waste disposal district
act 2 . (1977 Code ch. 27 § 1; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
2 2. 70 ILCS 3105/1 et seq.
2-2-2: FEES ESTABLISHED; DISPOSITION:
The county shall assess and collect a fee in the amount set forth herein from
the owner or operator of each sanitary landfill in the county permitted or
required to be permitted by the agency to dispose of solid waste if the
sanitary landfill is owned, controlled and operated by a person other than the
generator of such waste. If a site is contiguous to one or more landfills owned
or operated by the same person, the volumes received by each landfill shall be
combined for the purpose of determining the fee. The county shall deposit all
fees collected into the solid waste management fund.
   A.   If more than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) cubic yards of
nonhazardous solid waste is received at a site in a calendar year, the owner or
operator shall pay a fee of sixty cents ($0.60) per cubic yard unless the owner
or operator weighs the quantity of the solid waste received with a device for
which certification has been obtained under the weights and measurers act 1 ,
in which case, the owner or operator shall pay a fee of one dollar twenty seven
cents ($1.27) per ton.
   B.   If more than one hundred thousand (100,000) cubic yards, but not more
than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) cubic yards of nonhazardous solid
waste is received at a site in a calendar year, the owner or operator shall pay
a fee of thirty three thousand three hundred fifty dollars ($33,350.00) per
year.
   C.   If more than fifty thousand (50,000) cubic yards, but not more than one
hundred thousand (100,000) cubic yards of nonhazardous solid waste is received
at a site in a calendar year, the owner or operator shall pay a fee of fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000.00) per year.
   D.   If more than ten thousand (10,000) cubic yards, but not more than fifty
thousand (50,000) cubic yards of nonhazardous solid waste is received at a site
in a calendar year, the owner or operator shall pay a fee of four thousand six
hundred fifty dollars ($4,650.00) per year.
   E.   If not more than ten thousand (10,000) cubic yards of nonhazardous
solid waste is received at a site in a calendar year, the owner or operator
shall pay a fee of six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) per year. (1977 Code ch.
27 § 3; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 470/1 et seq.
2-2-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM FEE:
   A.   Exemptions Granted:
      1.   The county shall grant exemptions from the fee requirements of this
chapter for receipt or transport of solid waste meeting all of the following
criteria:
         a.   Receipt of the solid waste is pursuant to a written contract
between the owner or operator of the sanitary landfill and some other person,
or transport of the solid waste is pursuant to a written contract between the
transporter and some other person; and
         b.   The contract for receipt of transport of solid waste was lawfully
executed on or before April 1, 1990, and, by its express terms, continues
beyond April 1, 1990; and
         c.   The contract for receipt or transport of solid waste establishes
a fixed fee or compensation, does not allow the operator or transporter to pass
the fee through to another party and does not allow voluntary cancellation or
renegotiation of the compensation or fee during the term of the contract.
Provided, however, that this exemption shall not apply to the permanent
disposal of solid waste under any contract lawfully executed before June 1,
1986, under which more than one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) cubic yards
(or 50,000 tons) of solid waste is to be permanently disposed of.
      2.   The county shall grant exemptions from the fee requirements of this
chapter for solid waste meeting all of the following criteria:
         a. The waste is nonputrescible and homogenous and does not contain
free liquids; and
         b. Combustion of the waste would not provide practical energy recovery
or practical reduction in volume; and
         c. The appellant for exemption demonstrates that it is not
technologically and economically reasonable to recycle or reuse the waste.
An applicant shall be granted the exemption under this subsection A2 upon
providing proof that an exemption has been granted by the agency under 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22.16a for the same waste. The exemption shall be
effective from the effective date of the exemption granted by the agency.
      3. Exemptions granted under subsections A1 and A2 of this section shall
cause the solid waste received by an owner or operator of a sanitary landfill
to be disregarded in calculating the volume or weight of solid waste received
during a calendar year under this chapter.
   B.   Application For Exemption:
      1.   Applications for exemptions must be submitted to the administrator
with proof of satisfaction of all criteria for granting the exemptions. The
administrator shall notify the applicants in writing of the granting or denial
of an application for exemption.
      2.   Applications for exemptions under subsection A1 of this section may
be granted retroactively. Applications for retroactive or prospective
exemptions under that subsection must be received by the administrator before
May 1, 1992. Exemptions under subsection A1 of this section shall expire upon
expiration, renewal or amendment of the exempted contract, whichever comes
first.
   C.   Records Required: It shall be the duty of an owner or operator of a
sanitary landfill and transporter of the solid waste to keep accurate records
and to prove to the satisfaction of the administrator the volume or weight of
solid waste received under an exemption during a calendar year. (1977 Code ch.
27 § 4)
2-2-4: REPORTS AND PAYMENTS:
   A.   Quarterly Report:
      1.   Every owner or operator of a sanitary landfill permitted or required
to be permitted by the agency and located within the county shall file a
quarterly report specifying the quantities of waste received and the fee
payments due to the county. The quarterly solid waste disposal report shall be
due within thirty (30) days following the end of each calendar year and shall
be tendered to the county treasurer.
      2.   The county treasurer shall forward a copy of the report to the chair
of the county board and to the administrator.
   B.   Payment Of Fee: Every owner or operator of a sanitary landfill shall
make payment of the fees set forth in this chapter to the county treasurer at
the time the report required in subsection A1 of this section is filed. (1977
Code ch. 27 § 5)
2-2-5: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT FUND:
   A.   Fund Created: There is hereby created within the county a solid waste
management fund constituted from fees collected pursuant to this chapter.
Interest received on the monies in the fund shall be credited to the fund.
   B.   Expenditures: Monies in the fund may be accumulated over a period of
years to be expended by the county for solid waste management purposes,
including long term monitoring and maintenance of landfills, planning,
implementation, inspection, enforcement and other activities consistent with
the solid waste management act 1  and the local solid waste disposal act 2 .
   C.   Annual Report: In April of each year, the county shall prepare and
distribute to the agency a report that details spending plans for monies
collected into the solid waste management fund. The report will include the
following:
      1.   The total monies collected pursuant to this chapter.
      2.    The most current balance of monies in the fund.
      3.   An itemized accounting of all monies expended from the fund for the
previous year.
      4.   An estimation of monies to be collected for the following three (3)
years pursuant to this chapter.
      5.   A narrative detailing the general direction and scope of future
expenditures from the fund for one, two (2) and three (3) years. (1977 Code ch.
27 § 2)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
2 2. 415 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
2-2-6: TERMINATION OF OPERATION:
The owner or operator of each sanitary landfill subject to this chapter shall
notify the administrator in writing if he or she is intending to terminate the
receipt of solid waste during the calendar year. Unless the termination of
operation is by emergency order of an authorized regulatory agency or court of
competent jurisdiction, notice must be given to the administrator ninety (90)
days in advance of termination. Said notice shall include an estimated date of
termination. (1977 Code ch. 27 § 6)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS FEES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Clerk Of Courts Fee Schedule
2-3-2: Child Support Collection Fee And Fund
2-3-3: Sheriff Fees
2-3-4: Clerk-Recorder Fees
2-3-5: Recorder's Automation Fund Fee
2-3-6: Geographic Information System (GIS) Fund Fees
2-3-1: CLERK OF COURTS FEE SCHEDULE:
As authorized in 705 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/27.5, the County elects to
opt out of the implementation of the provisions of said section 105/27.5 which
alters the existing fee schedule presently used in assessing costs in traffic
cases in the Fifteenth Judicial Circuit's Jo Daviess County Courthouse. (1977
Code ch. 26; amd. 2009 Code)
2-3-2: CHILD SUPPORT COLLECTION FEE AND FUND:
   A.   Fee Established: The Clerk of the Circuit Court shall collect the sum
of thirty six dollars ($36.00) as a fee from persons making maintenance and/or
child support payments to the Circuit Court Clerk's Office.
   B.   Payment Of Fee: The fee shall be paid annually and shall be paid on
January 2 each year; provided, however, that on orders entered after the
effective date hereof, the first year's fee shall be due and payable on the
date on which the first payment of support is paid. Thereafter, in subsequent
years, the fee shall be payable on January 2 each year. (1977 Code § 31-1)
   C.   Failure To Pay: If the fee is not paid within thirty (30) days of the
due date, the Circuit Court Clerk may refer the matter to the State's
Attorney's Office for the collection of the fee by appropriate legal means.
(1977 Code § 31-4)
   D.   Disposition Of Fees: All fees collected by the Clerk of the Circuit
Court shall be deposited in a separate fund entitled "Maintenance and Child
Support Collection Fund". The Circuit Clerk, alone, shall determine the
expenditures from the fund to further maintenance and child support
collections. (1977 Code § 31-2; amd. 2009 Code)
2-3-3: SHERIFF FEES:
The fees charged by the Jo Daviess County Sheriff shall be increased and/or
established as follows:
   A.   The fee for serving civil papers shall be a flat fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) regardless of the number of attempts to serve.
   B.   The fee for serving arrest warrants shall be forty five dollars
($45.00) for each attempt.
   C.   The fee for retrieving and recording bail proceeds shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each occurrence.
   D.   The fee for retrieving and transporting prisoners from jail for court
appearances shall be eighteen dollars ($18.00) for each occurrence.
   E.   The fee for sex offender registration shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) for initial registration and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
annual renewal.
   F.   The fee for nightly stay of prisoners in the County Jail shall be five
dollars ($5.00) for each night.
   G.   The fee for false alarms shall be thirty six dollars ($36.00) for each
occurrence.
   H.   The fee for fingerprinting shall be twenty six dollars ($26.00) for
each occurrence.
   I.   The fee for evictions/replevins shall be established at sixty dollars
($60.00) for the first hour and thirty dollars ($30.00) for each additional
hour. (Ord. 2010-3, 5-11-2010, eff. 8-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2011-1, 1-11-2011; Ord.
2018-6, 4-9-2018, eff. 8-1-2018; Ord. 2020-1, 2-11-2020)
2-3-4: CLERK-RECORDER FEES:
The fees charged by the County Clerk-Recorder shall be increased and/or
established as follows:
   A.   The minimum fee for recording of standard documents shall be $81.00
($24.00 Recording Fee, $7.00 Recorder Automation Fee, $31.00 GIS fee, $18.00
Rental Housing Support Program, $1.00 Administrative Fee per P.A. 98-0005).
   B.   The minimum fee for recording of non-standard documents shall be
$102.00 ($45.00 Recording Fee, $7.00 Recorder Automation Fee, $31.00 GIS fee,
$18.00 Rental Housing Support Program, $1.00 Administrative Fee per P.A. 98-
0005).
   C.   The fee for a vital records search (marriage license search, civil
union search, and birth certificate search) shall be twenty dollars ($20.00)
for each record ($18.00 - General Fund, $2.00 - Recorder Automation Fund) and
the fee for additional copies shall be six dollars ($6.00) ($4.00 - General
Fund, $2.00 - Recorder Automation Fund).
   D.   The fee for a death certificate search shall be twenty dollars ($20.00)
for each record ($14.00 - General Fund, $4.00 - State Cemetery Fund and
Surcharge Fund, $2.00 - Recorder Automation Fund) and the fee for additional
copies shall be ten dollars ($10.00) ($4.00 - General Fund, $4.00 - State,
$2.00 - Recorder Automation Fund).
   E.   The fee for a death certificate search for genealogical purposes shall
be twenty dollars ($20.00) for each record ($18.00 - General Fund, $2.00 -
Recorder Automation Fund) and the fee for additional copies shall be six
dollars ($6.00) ($4.00 - General Fund, $2.00 - Recorder Automation Fund).
   F.   The fee for an assumed name filing shall be established at ten dollars
($10.00) ($10.00 - General Fund).
   G.   The fee for a marriage/civil union license shall be fifty dollars
($50.00) for each license ($45.00 - General Fund, $5.00 - State Domestic
Violence Fund).
   H.   The fee for issuing certificates of tax redemption shall be forty nine
dollars ($49.00) for each occurrence ($49.00 - General Fund).
   I.   The fee for processing a liquor license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each license ($50.00 - General Fund). (Ord. 2018-6, 4-9-2018, eff. 8-1-
2018; amd. Ord. 2020-1, 2-11-2020; Ord. 2022-9, 9-13-2022; Ord. 2023-4, 4-10-
2023)
2-3-5: RECORDER'S AUTOMATION FUND FEE:
   A.   The fee for the Recorder's Automation Fund shall be increased from
seven dollars ($7.00) to seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) for each recorded
instrument, paper, or notice of record. This fee is included and part of the
minimum standard and non-standard recording fees established in subsections 2-
3-4A and B of this chapter. (Ord. 2018-6, 4-9-2018, eff. 8-1-2018)
2-3-6: GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS) FUND FEES:
   A.   Fund Fee: The fee charged for the Geographic Information System (GIS)
Fund collected by the County Clerk-Recorder shall be thirty one dollars
($31.00) for each recorded instrument, paper, or notice of record.
   B.   Website Subscription Fee: The fees charged by the Geographic
Information System/Information Technology (GIS/IT) Department for geographic
information system (GIS) website subscription access shall be as follows:
GIS WEBSITE SUBSCRIPTION FEE SCHEDULE -
STANDARD RATES
 
Subscription Type Monthly Cost Total Due
30 day            $60.00       $ 60.00
6 month           40.00        240.00
Annual            30.00        360.00
 
GIS WEBSITE SUBSCRIPTION FEE SCHEDULE -
GOVERNMENT/NONPROFIT RATES
 
Subscription Type Monthly Cost Total Due
30 day            $45.00       $ 45.00
6 month           30.00        180.00
Annual            22.50        270.00
 
   C.   Property Map Fee: The fee for an 11" x 17" property map, laser printed;
1st copy shall be fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   D.   Shipping And Handling Fee: The fee for shipping and handling of 10" x
13" envelopes shall be three dollars ($3.00). (Ord. 2010-3, 5-11-2010, eff. 8-
1-2010; amd. Ord. 2018-6, 4-9-2018, eff. 8-1-2018; Ord. 2020-1, 2-11-2020)
CHAPTER 4
OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
2-4-1: Retailers' Occupation Tax
2-4-2: Service Occupation Tax
2-4-3: Supplemental Occupation Taxes
2-4-4: County School Facility Occupation Taxes
2-4-5: County Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
2-4-1: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the unincorporated areas of the
county in the business of selling tangible personal property at retail at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business and in accordance with section 25.05-2 of an act to
revise the law in relation to counties (repealed). (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-1;
amd. 2009 Code)
2-4-2: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the unincorporated area of the
county in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property or in the form of real
estate as an incident to a sale of service in accordance with section 25.05-
3 of an act to revise the law in relation to counties (repealed). (1977 Code
ch. 13 § 13-15; amd. 2009 Code)
2-4-3: SUPPLEMENTAL OCCUPATION TAXES:
   A.   Supplemental Retailers' Occupation Tax:
      1.   Tax Imposed: There is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the county at the
rate of one-fourth of one percent (1/4%) of the gross receipts from such sales
in accordance with Illinois Revised Statutes chapter 34, section 409.1a
(section 25.05-2a of an act to revise the law in relation to counties, as
amended) (repealed). (1977 Code ch. 19 § 1; amd. 2009 Code)
      2.   Report Required: Every person engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the county shall file on or before the
last day of each calendar month the report to the Illinois department of
revenue required by the provisions of an act 1  in relation to a tax on persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to purchasers for
use or consumption, approved June 28, 1933, as amended. (1977 Code ch. 19 § 3;
amd. 2009 Code)
      3.   Payment Of Tax: At the time the report required by subsection A2 of
this section is filed, there shall be paid to the Illinois department of
revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of receipts from sales of
tangible personal property during the preceding month. (1977 Code ch. 19 § 4)
      4.   Collection And Enforcement: The tax imposed hereby, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and
enforced by the department of revenue of the state of Illinois, and said
department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
the county supplementary retailers' occupation tax act, Illinois Revised
Statutes chapter 34, section 409.1a (repealed), and this subsection. (1977 Code
ch. 19 § 2; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Supplemental Service Occupation Tax:
      1.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of making sales in service in the county at the rate of one-fourth of
one percent (1/4%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property
transferred by such servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property
or in the form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in
accordance with Illinois Revised Statutes chapter 34, section 409.2a (section
25-05-3a of an act to revise the law in relation to counties, as amended)
(repealed). (1977 Code ch. 19 § 5; amd. 2009 Code)
      2.   Report Required: Every person engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail in the county shall file on or before the
last day of each calendar month the report to the Illinois department of
revenue required by the provisions of an act to impose a tax on persons engaged
in the business of making sales of service, approved July 10, 1961, as amended
2 . (1977 Code § 19-7; amd. 2009 Code)
      3.   Payment Of Tax: At the time the report required by subsection B2 of
this section is filed, there shall be paid to the Illinois department of
revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the cost price of all
tangible personal property subject to this tax transferred by servicemen as an
incident to a "sale of service" during the preceding month. (1977 Code § 19-8)
      4.   Collection And Enforcement: The tax imposed hereby, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and
enforced by the Illinois department of revenue, and said department shall have
full power to administer and enforce the provisions of the county supplementary
service occupation tax act and this subsection. (1977 Code § 19-6; amd. 2009
Code)
   C.   Supplemental Use Tax:
      1.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
the county any item of tangible personal property subject to this tax which is
purchased outside Illinois at retail from a retailer and which is titled or
registered with any agency of this state's government, at a rate of one-fourth
of one percent (1/4%) of the selling price of such tangible personal property,
as "selling price" is defined in the use tax act 3  approved July 14, 1955, as
amended. (1977 Code § 19-9)
      2.   Payment Of Tax: The tax hereby imposed must be paid to or an
exemption determination must be obtained from the Illinois department of
revenue before the title or certificate of registration for the property may be
issued. Such tax shall be collected and transmitted as approved in the county
supplementary tax act. (1977 Code § 19-11; amd. 2009 Code)
      3.   Collection And Enforcement: The tax imposed hereby, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto shall be collected and
enforced by the Illinois department of revenue, and said department shall have
full power to administer and enforce the provisions of the county supplementary
use tax act and this subsection. (1977 Code § 19-10)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2 1. 35 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
3 1. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
2-4-4: COUNTY SCHOOL FACILITY OCCUPATION TAXES:
   A.   Taxes Imposed: Until July 1, 2015, the county school facility
occupation taxes imposed pursuant to the prior ordinance shall be and are
hereby continued to be imposed. Beginning on July 1, 2015, the county school
facility occupation taxes shall be imposed in the county as follows:
      1.   Retailers' Occupation Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other than
personal property titled or registered with an agency of this state's
government, at retail in this county at the rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
section is in effect to provide revenue to be used exclusively for school
facility purposes.
      2.   Service Occupation Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in this county in the business of making sales of service, at the rate
of one percent (1%) of the selling price of all tangible personal property
transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service to provide
revenue to be used exclusively for school facility purposes.
      3.   Exclusions From Tax: The retailers' occupation tax and service
occupation tax shall not be applicable to the sales of food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics.
The imposition of the county school facility occupation taxes are in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of sections 5-1006.7(a) and 5-1006.7(b), of
the counties code 1 .
   B.   Revenues Derived From Taxes: The revenues derived from the county
school facility taxes, if, as and when received by school districts within the
county, shall be used by such school districts in accordance with the county
school facility occupation tax law.
   C.   Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer: The taxes hereby imposed,
and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be
collected and enforced by the department of revenue of the state of Illinois.
The department of revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
   D.   Clerk To File Ordinance With Illinois Department Of Revenue: The county
clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of the ordinance codified
herein and a certification of the results of the election authorizing the
imposition of the tax imposed in subsection A of this section with the Illinois
department of revenue on or before May 1, 2015. (Ord. 2014-7A, 11-10-2014, eff.
7-1-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-1006.7(a), 5/5-1006.7(b).
2-4-5: COUNTY CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax imposed; Rate.
      1.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail locations in the County on the
gross receipts from these sales at the following rates:
         a.   3.75% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course
of that business in unincorporated areas of Jo Daviess County; and
         b.   3.00% of the gross receipts of sales made in a municipality
located in Jo Daviess County; and
      2.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
the County Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax Law (55 ILCS 5/5-1006.8).
   B.   Collection of tax by retailers.
      1.   The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (the “Department”). Any tax required to
be collected pursuant to or as authorized by this Ordinance and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
      2.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2019-3, 9-10-2019)
CHAPTER 5
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAXES 1
SECTION:
2-5-1: Definitions
2-5-2: Taxes Imposed; Payment And Exemptions
2-5-3: Collection Of Taxes
2-5-4: Declaration Of Real Estate Transfer
2-5-5: Application Of Taxes
2-5-6: Taxes Are Additional
2-5-7: Violation
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-1031, effective June 1, 2005.
2-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   The beneficial interest in an Illinois land trust;
   B.   The lessee interest in a ground lease (including any interest of the
lessee in the related improvements) that provides for a term of thirty (30) or
more years when all options to renew or extend are included, whether or not any
portion of the term has expired; or
   C.   The indirect interest in real property as reflected by a controlling
interest in a real estate entity.
CONTROLLING INTEREST: More than fifty percent (50%) of the fair market value of
all ownership interests or beneficial interests in a real estate entity.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
REAL ESTATE ENTITY: Any person including, but not limited to, any partnership,
corporation, limited liability company, trust, other entity, or multitiered
entity, that exists or acts substantially for the purpose of holding, directly
or indirectly, title to or beneficial interest in real property. There is a
rebuttable presumption that an entity is a "real estate entity" if it owns,
directly or indirectly, real property having a fair market value greater than
seventy five percent (75%) of the total fair market value of all of the
entity's assets, determined without deduction for any mortgage, lien, or
encumbrance.
RECORDATION: The recording of deeds or trust documents by the recorder of
deeds.
TRUST DOCUMENT: A document required to be recorded under the land trust
recordation and transfer tax act 1  and, beginning June 1, 2005, also means any
document relating to the transfer of a taxable beneficial interest under this
chapter.
VALUE: The amount of the full actual consideration for the real property or the
beneficial interest in real property located in Illinois, including the amount
of any lien on the real property assumed by the transferee. (1977 Code ch. 13 §
13-33; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 420/1 et seq.
2-5-2: TAXES IMPOSED; PAYMENT AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Transfer Of Title:
      1.   A tax is imposed on the privilege of transferring title to real
estate, as represented by the deed that is filed for recordation, at the rate
of twenty five cents ($0.25) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00) of value
or fraction thereof stated in the declaration provided for in this subsection.
If, however, the real estate is transferred subject to a mortgage, the amount
of the mortgage remaining outstanding at the time of transfer shall not be
included in the basis of computing the tax. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-34)
      2.   All deeds exempted by section 31-45 of the real estate transfer tax
law, 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 200/31-45, as amended from time to time,
shall also be exempt from any tax imposed pursuant to this subsection. (1977
Code ch. 13 § 13-36; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Transfer Of Beneficial Interest:
      1.   A tax at the same rate as provided in subsection A1 of this section
is hereby imposed on the transfer of a "beneficial interest", as defined in
section
2-5-1 of this chapter. If, however, the transferring document states that the
real estate or beneficial interest is transferred subject to a mortgage, then
the amount of the mortgage remaining outstanding at the time of transfer shall
not be included in the basis of computing the tax.
      2.   The tax must be paid at the time of recordation or, if a document is
not recorded, at the time of presentation of the transfer declaration to the
recorder, as provided in section 31-25 of the property tax code 1 .
      3.   All deeds or documents relating to the transfer of a beneficial
interest exempted in sections 31-45 or 31-46 of the property tax code 2  are
also exempt from any tax imposed under this subsection. (2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 200/31-25.
2 2. 35 ILCS 200/31-35, 200/31-36.
2-5-3: COLLECTION OF TAXES:
The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be collected by the recorder of deeds
through the sale of revenue stamps. The recorder of deeds may sell the revenue
stamps at a rate of twenty five cents ($0.25) per five hundred dollars
($500.00) of value or fraction thereof. Except as provided in subsections 2-5-
2A2 and B3 of this chapter, no deed shall be accepted for filing by the
recorder of deeds unless the county revenue stamps in the required amount have
been purchased from the recorder of deeds. Such revenue stamps shall be affixed
to the deed by the recorder of deeds either before or after recording as
requested by the grantee. A person using or affixing a revenue stamp shall
cancel it and so deface it as to render it unfit for reuse by marking it with
his initials and the day, month, and year when the affixing occurs. Such
markings shall be made by writing or stamping in indelible ink or by
perforating with a machine or punch. However, the revenue stamp shall not be so
defaced as to prevent ready determination of its denomination and genuineness.
(1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-34; amd. 2009 Code)
2-5-4: DECLARATION OF REAL ESTATE TRANSFER:
At such time as the taxes levied by this chapter are paid, there shall be filed
with the recorder of deeds a fully executed and completed copy of the "Real
Estate Transfer Declaration" required by provisions of 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 200/31-25. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-35; amd. 2009 Code)
2-5-5: APPLICATION OF TAXES:
Beginning June 1, 2005, a tax imposed under this chapter is due if the transfer
is made by one or more related transactions or involves one or more persons or
entities, regardless of whether a document is recorded. (2009 Code)
2-5-6: TAXES ARE ADDITIONAL:
The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be in addition to all other occupation
or privilege taxes imposed by the state of Illinois or by any municipal
corporation or political subdivision thereof. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-37; amd.
2009 Code)
2-5-7: VIOLATION:
Any person who wilfully falsifies the value of transferred real estate on the
"real estate transfer declaration of value" shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-38)
CHAPTER 6
HOTEL/MOTEL OPERATORS' TAX
SECTION:
2-6-1: Title; Tax Is Additional
2-6-2: Purpose
2-6-3: Definitions
2-6-4: Jurisdiction
2-6-5: Tax Imposed; Exemption
2-6-6: Books And Records
2-6-7: Tax Returns
2-6-8: Payment Of Tax; Disposition Of Funds
2-6-9: Penalties
2-6-1: TITLE; TAX IS ADDITIONAL:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the HOTEL AND MOTEL OPERATORS'
OCCUPATION TAX ORDINANCE, and the tax herein imposed shall be in addition to
all other occupation or privilege taxes imposed by the state of Illinois or
political subdivision thereof. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-100)
2-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow collection of a county hotel/motel tax
for purposes designated in 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1030. (1977 Code
ch. 13 § 13-100.1; amd. 2009 Code)
2-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS OF RENTING, LEASING OR LETTING ROOMS IN A HOTEL OR
MOTEL: The ownership of any real estate use therefor or any material
participation in the management of any such real estate.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses, apartment houses, resorts, bed and breakfast establishments,
cottages, cabins and condominiums.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of any
room or rooms in a hotel or motel for any purpose, or the right to the use or
possession of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations
accompanying the use and possession of the room or rooms.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel or motel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupies, or has the right to occupy, any
room or rooms in a hotel or motel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, stock company,
joint adventure, public or private corporation or a receiver, executor,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of the court.
RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-101; amd. 2009 Code)
2-6-4: JURISDICTION:
This chapter shall apply to any hotel or motel operated within the boundaries
of the county, except those located within a city, village or unincorporated
town that imposes a tax under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-3-14. (1977
Code ch. 13 § 13-106; amd. 2009 Code)
2-6-5: TAX IMPOSED; EXEMPTION:
A tax is imposed upon persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or
letting rooms in a hotel or motel at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
rental receipts from such renting, leasing or letting, excluding, however, from
the gross receipts, the proceeds of such renting, leasing or letting to
permanent residents of that hotel or motel. Persons subject to the tax imposed
by this chapter may reimburse themselves for their tax liability under this
chapter by separately stating such tax as an additional charge. (Ord., 11-13-
2001, eff. 1-1-2002)
2-6-6: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every operator shall keep separate books or records of his business as an
operator so as to show the rents and occupancies taxable under this chapter
separately from his transactions not taxable hereunder. If any such operator
fails to keep such records, his tax liability shall be computed from the entire
proceeds from his hotel or motel. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-103)
2-6-7: TAX RETURNS:
   A.   Information Required: As provided herein, every person engaged in the
business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel or motel in the county
shall file a return with the county treasurer, on a form specified by the
treasurer, 330 North Bench Street, Galena, Illinois stating:
      1.   The name of the person engaged in the business.
      2.   His/her residence address and the address of his/her principal place
of business and the address of the principal place of business (if that is a
different address) from which he/she engaged in the business of renting,
leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel or motel in the county.
      3.   Total amount of rental receipts received by him/her during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms during such
preceding calendar month.
      4.   Total amount of receipts received by him/her during the preceding
month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent residents during such
preceding calendar month.
      5.   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts allowed
by this chapter.
      6.   Gross rental receipts which were received by him/her during the
preceding calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
      7.   The amount of tax due.
      8.   The amount of penalty due, if any.
      9.   Such other information as the county may reasonably require. (1977
Code ch. 13 § 13-104)
   B.   Annual Returns: Annual returns, as to form and substance, shall be
subject to the same requirements as monthly returns. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-
104; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Discontinuance Of Business: Notwithstanding any other provision in this
chapter concerning the time within which an operator may file his return, in
the case of any operator who ceases to engage in a kind of business which makes
him responsible for filing returns under this chapter, such operator shall file
a final return under this chapter with the county treasurer not more than
thirty (30) days after discontinuing such business. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-104)
   D.   Separate Reports For Each Business: Where the same person has more than
one business registered with the county under separate registrations, such
person shall file separate reports for each such registered business. (1977
Code ch. 13 § 13-104; amd. 2009 Code)
   E.   Considerations Other Than Money: In his/her return, the person engaging
in the business shall determine the actual value of any consideration other
than money received by him/her in connection with the renting, leasing or
letting of rooms in the course of his/her business, and he/she shall include
such actual value in his return. Such determination shall be subject to review
by the county treasurer.
   F.   Returns By Corporations: Where the person engaging in the business is a
corporation, the return filed on behalf of such corporation shall be signed by
the president, vice president, secretary or treasurer or by the duly authorized
agent of such corporation.
   G.   Annual Information Return:
      1.   The county treasurer may, upon separate written notice to a
taxpayer, require the taxpayer to prepare and file with the county treasurer,
within sixty (60) days after receipt of such notice, an annual information
return for the tax year specified in the notice. Such annual return to the
county treasurer shall include a statement of gross receipts as shown by the
operator's last state income tax return. If the total receipts of the business
as reported in the state income tax return does not agree with the gross
receipts reported to the county treasurer for the same period, the operator
shall attach to his annual information return a schedule showing a
reconciliation of the two (2) amounts and the reasons for the difference. The
operator's annual information return to the county treasurer shall also
disclose payroll information of the operator's business during the year covered
by such return and any additional information which the county treasurer deems
reasonably necessary in determining the accuracy of the monthly, quarterly or
annual tax returns by such operator as provided for in this section.
      2.   If the annual information return required by this section is not
filed when and as required, the taxpayer shall be liable for a penalty equal to
one percent (1%) of the tax due from such taxpayer under this chapter during
the period to be covered by the annual return for each month or fraction of a
month until such return is filed as required, the penalty to be assessed and
collected in the same manner as any other penalty provided for in this chapter.
      3.   The chief executive officer, proprietor, owner or highest ranking
manager shall sign the annual information return on oath of verification and
certify the accuracy of the information contained herein. Any person who
wilfully signs an annual information return containing false information shall
be guilty of perjury and punished therefor accordingly. The annual return form
prescribed by the county treasurer shall include a warning that the person
signing the return may be liable for perjury.
      4.   The provisions of this subsection concerning the filing of an annual
information return shall not apply to an operator who is not required to file
an income tax return with the United States government. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-
104)
2-6-8: PAYMENT OF TAX; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
   A.   Operator shall pay the tax liability to the county on or before the
date of required payment of state liability under 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes
145/1 et seq. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-104; amd. Ord., 9-13-2006)
   B.   The person filing the return shall pay to the county treasurer the
amount of tax herein imposed, and all monies received by the county treasurer
under the provisions of this chapter shall be paid into the county treasury.
(1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-104)
2-6-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who fails to comply with any section of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1977 Code ch. 13 § 13-107; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Violations hereof may be enjoined by appropriate order of the circuit
court, and the collection of any amounts due may, together with costs and
reasonable attorney fees, be awarded by judgment of the circuit court. (1977
Code ch. 13 § 13-107)
CHAPTER 7
911 EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM SURCHARGE
SECTION:
2-7-1: Definitions
2-7-2: Surcharge Imposed
2-7-3: List Of Network Connections
2-7-4: Accounting And Collection Charge
2-7-5: Disposition Of Collected Revenues
2-7-6: Return Filed
2-7-7: Credit For Overpayment
2-7-8: Time Limit On Collection Of Delinquent Payments
2-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
NETWORK CONNECTION: The number of voice grade communication channels directly
between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier's public switched network
without the intervention of any other telecommunications carrier's switched
network which would be required to carry the subscriber's interpremises
traffic.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation,
limited liability corporation, municipal corporation or political subdivision
of this state, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative
appointed by order of any court engaged in the business of transmitting
messages by means of electricity. For the purposes of this chapter,
"telecommunication carrier" does not include a cellular or other mobile
communication carrier.
TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: Shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2. (1977 Code ch. 23 § 4; amd. 2009 Code)
2-7-2: SURCHARGE IMPOSED:
A surcharge is hereby imposed upon all telephone subscribers passed through
telecommunications carriers engaged in the business of transmitting messages by
means of electricity originating within the corporate limits of county and
terminating within the state of Illinois for funding of a
9-1-1 emergency telephone system. The surcharge hereby imposed is at a rate of
one dollar seventy five cents ($1.75) per month per in-service network
connection, as herein defined. A network connection shall not be deemed to be
in service where a subscriber's account is uncollectible. (1977 Code ch. 23 §§
1, 3; amd. 2009 Code)
2-7-3: LIST OF NETWORK CONNECTIONS:
The county clerk shall provide any telecommunications carrier subject to the
surcharge with a certified list of those network connections assigned to the
county to be exempt from imposition of the surcharge. The certified list may be
revised by the county on sixty (60) days' prior written notice provided to the
telecommunications carriers. (1977 Code ch. 23 § 5)
2-7-4: ACCOUNTING AND COLLECTION CHARGE:
In lieu of the telecommunications carriers imposing a three percent (3%)
accounting and collection charge on its subscribers as permitted under the act,
each telecommunications carrier is hereby authorized and instructed to recover
said accounting and collection charge by deducting three percent (3%) from the
gross amount of surcharge collected otherwise due and owing the county prior to
remittance under section
2-7-5 of this chapter. (1977 Code ch. 23 § 7)
2-7-5: DISPOSITION OF COLLECTED REVENUES:
The amount of surcharge collected by the telecommunications carrier shall be
paid to the particular municipality or county or joint emergency telephone
system board not later than thirty (30) days after the surcharge is collected,
net of any network or other
9-1-1 or sophisticated
9-1-1 system charges then due the particular telecommunications carrier, as
shown on an itemized bill, and the three percent (3%) accounting and collection
charge described in section
2-7-4 of this chapter. (1977 Code ch. 23 § 8)
2-7-6: RETURN FILED:
Simultaneously with the remittance described in section
2-7-5 of this chapter, each telecommunications carrier shall make a return to
the county treasurer for the period to which the remittance applies stating as
follows:
   A.   The name of the telecommunications carrier.
   B.   The telecommunications carrier's principal place of business.
   C.   The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies.
   D.   The amount of surcharge due.
   E.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require. (1977 Code ch. 23 § 9)
2-7-7: CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of surcharge has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or any error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any
surcharge due, or to become due, under this chapter from the telecommunications
carrier who made the erroneous payments; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited. Ninety (90) days' prior notice shall be given to the emergency
telephone system board on any credit against a surcharge due. (1977 Code ch. 23
§ 10)
2-7-8: TIME LIMIT ON COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT PAYMENTS:
No action to recover any amount of surcharge due under the provisions of this
chapter shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (1977 Code ch. 23 § 11)
CHAPTER 8
FINANCE
SECTION:
2-8-1: Fiscal Year
2-8-2: Budgeting
2-8-3: Deposits Of Fees And Earnings
2-8-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year shall be set as December 1 to November 30 of each year. (Ord.
2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-8-2: BUDGETING:
   A.   Annual Budget: An annual budget shall be drafted and prepared by the
county administrator and presented to the county board by the finance, tax and
budgets committee for action. Such budget shall be made conveniently available
to public inspection for at least fifteen (15) days prior to action by the
board. The annual budget shall consist of the following:
      1.   A statement of the receipts and payments and a statement of the
revenues and expenditures of the preceding fiscal year.
      2.   A statement of all monies in the county treasury or in any funds
thereof that were not spent during the preceding fiscal year last ended, of all
amounts due or accruing to the county as well as any outstanding obligations or
liabilities of the county incurred in any preceding fiscal year.
      3.   Estimated income for the current fiscal year and the ensuing fiscal
year covered by the budget, for each of the fiscal years previously mentioned,
the estimated income from taxes, fees and all other sources must be separately
specified. With regard to fee income, the estimated total receipts from fees by
county fee officers and the estimated net receipts from fees to be paid into
the county treasury shall be specified.
      4.   A detailed statement showing the estimates of expenditures for the
current fiscal year, revised to the date of such estimate, and, separately, the
proposed expenditures for the ensuing fiscal year for which the budget is
prepared. Said revised estimates and proposed expenditures shall show the
amounts for current expenses and capital outlay, shall specify the several
objects and purposes of each item of current expenses, and shall include for
each of said years all floating indebtedness as of the beginning of the year,
the amount of funded debt and all charges fixed or imposed upon counties by
law.
      5.   A schedule of proposed appropriations itemized as provided for
proposed expenditures prepared in accordance with subsection A4 of this
section. This schedule is to be approved by the county board, and at that time
it becomes known as the annual appropriation ordinance.
      6.   An amount of five percent (5%) of the total (or less) for any fund
may be appropriated for contingent, incidental, miscellaneous, or general
purposes. No part of this contingency appropriation may be used for purposes
for which other appropriations are made, unless an authorized transfer of funds
is made.
   B.   Schedule Of Proposed Appropriations: A schedule of proposed
appropriations for the ensuing fiscal year shall be presented in ordinance form
by the finance, tax and budgets committee to the county board for action. The
ordinance shall be congruent with the annual budget for the corresponding
fiscal year.
      1.   At any point following the adoption of the annual budget, if the
county board determines by two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members constituting
such board, that revenues received, or to be received, by the county during the
fiscal year totals an amount substantially less than projected at the time of
adoption of the annual budget for the fiscal year, such board, by like vote,
may adopt an amended budget for the remainder of the present fiscal year.
      2.   The authority of the county board to amend the annual appropriation
ordinance at any point during the fiscal year shall be the same as its
authority to amend the original annual budget; such amended budget shall be
prepared as otherwise provided in this section.
      3.   After the adoption of the annual budget, no further appropriations
shall be made at any other time during such fiscal year, except as follows:
         a.   At any meeting of the county board, by a two-thirds (2/3) roll
call vote of all the members, the board may make supplemental appropriations in
excess of those originally authorized in order to meet an immediate emergency.
         b.   Transfers from one appropriation of any one fund to another of
the same fund may be made by a two-thirds (2/3) roll call vote of all the
members, provided the total amount appropriated is not affected.
   C.   Obligations In Excess Of Appropriation: Except as provided by law,
neither the county board nor anyone on its behalf shall have the power, either
directly or indirectly, to:
      1.   Enter into contract which adds to the county expenditures in any
year anything above the amount provided for in the annual budget for that
fiscal year. No contract shall be entered into and no obligation or expense
shall be incurred by or on behalf of a county unless an appropriation therefor
has been previously made.
      2.   Purchase a capitalized fixed asset which has not been budgeted. No
obligation or expense related to the purchase or acquisition of a capitalized
fixed asset shall be incurred by or on behalf of a county unless an
appropriation therefor has been previously made. (Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
2-8-3: DEPOSITS OF FEES AND EARNINGS:
   A.   All elected and appointed county personnel, having custody of and
responsibility for receipts due and owing to the county, or as otherwise the
result of official county business, shall deposit such funds, on receipt, with
the county treasurer except accounts previously approved by county board
action.
   B.   The term, "on receipt", shall be defined as the next business day, or
as otherwise practical and prudent immediately thereafter, except as noted
elsewhere herein.
   C.   As fiduciary agent, for the Illinois 15th judicial circuit, having
responsibility for the collection and disbursement of both county and noncounty
funds, the circuit clerk shall deposit all county funds with the county
treasurer, at least once a month, but not later than the tenth of each month.
(Ord. 2011-4, 5-10-2011)
TITLE 3
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
SHERIFF'S MERIT COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-1-1: Commission Established; Appointment
3-1-2: Terms Of Office
3-1-3: Vacancy On Commission
3-1-4: Jurisdiction; Powers And Duties
3-1-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT:
The merit commission system is hereby adopted and implemented. The merit
commission established hereby shall consist of five (5) members appointed by
the sheriff, with the approval of the majority of the county board. (1977 Code
ch. 20; amd. Ord., 2-13-2007; 2009 Code)
3-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
Of the initial appointments to what was then the three (3) member commission,
one was for a term of two (2) years, one was for a term of four (4) years and
one was for a term of six (6) years. The respective successors of the initial
members shall be appointed in the same manner as the original appointments for
a six (6) year term. (1977 Code ch. 20; amd. Ord., 2-13-2007)
3-1-3: VACANCY ON COMMISSION:
If a vacancy shall occur in the office of a commissioner, the sheriff, with the
approval of the majority of the members of the county board, shall appoint a
suitable person to serve the unexpired portion of that commissioner's term. If
the sheriff fails to appoint a person to fill the vacancy within thirty (30)
days, the chair of the county board shall appoint a person to fill the
unexpired portion of the term, with the approval of a majority of the members
of the county board. (1977 Code ch. 20)
3-1-4: JURISDICTION; POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The merit commission hereby established and implemented shall have all
the jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges and duties imposed by the
sheriff's merit system act 1  of 1980 as thereafter amended. (1977 Code ch. 20)
   B.   The merit system commission shall also have jurisdiction over jail
officers as defined in "an act to revise the law in relationship to jails and
jailers", approved March 3, 1874, as now or hereafter amended (repealed). (1977
Code ch. 20; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/3-8001 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
SECTION:
3-2-1: Board Established
3-2-2: Membership; Appointment; Chairperson
3-2-3: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
3-2-4: Removal From Office
3-2-5: Compensation
3-2-6: Rules And Regulations
3-2-7: Powers And Duties
3-2-8: Revenues
3-2-9: Five Year Plan
3-2-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
The County Emergency Telephone System Board (the ETSB) is hereby established.
(Ord. 2012-5, 3-13-2012)
3-2-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; CHAIRPERSON:
The ETSB shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the Chairperson of the
County Board, with the advice and consent of the County Board; one (1) of whom
must be a public member who is a resident of the local exchange service
territory included in the
9-1-1 coverage area; one (1) of whom (in counties with a population less than
100,000) must be a member of the County Board; and at least three (3) of whom
shall be representative of the
9-1-1 public safety agencies, including, but not limited to, police
departments, fire departments, emergency medical service providers and
emergency services and disaster agencies, and appointed on the basis of their
ability or experience. The two (2) remaining members shall be representative of
public members, and/or
9-1-1 public safety agencies. The County Board Chairperson shall designate the
member of the ETSB who shall serve as Chairperson of the ETSB. (Ord. 2012-5, 3-
13-2012)
3-2-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
The County Board member shall serve a two (2) year term. The remaining members
of the ETSB shall serve for three (3) year overlapping terms. On appointment,
the County Board Chairperson shall designate the initial term of appointment of
a member. Vacancies shall be filled in the manner of original appointment for
the balance of the term of the member being replaced. (Ord. 2012-5, 3-13-2012)
3-2-4: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Members of the ETSB may be removed by the Chairperson of the County Board, with
the approval of the County Board, when, in the Chairperson's judgment, the best
interests of the County would be served. (Ord. 2012-5, 3-13-2012)
3-2-5: COMPENSATION:
Members of the ETSB shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed
for their actual and necessary expenses. (Ord. 2012-5, 3-13-2012)
3-2-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The ETSB shall establish reasonable rules and regulations to govern its
functioning that are consistent with 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 750,
Emergency Telephone System Act, and the powers and duties set forth herein,
including the establishment of a regular meeting time and date to conduct its
business. (Ord. 2016-9, 10-11-2016)
3-2-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the board shall be as follows:
   A.   Planning a
9-1-1 system.
   B.   Coordinating and supervising the implementation, upgrading and
maintenance of the system, including the establishment of equipment
specifications and coding systems.
   C.   Receiving monies from the surcharge imposed pursuant to 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 750/15.3, or disbursed to it under 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 750/30, and from any other source, for deposit into the Emergency
Telephone System Fund (the fund).
   D.   Authorizing all disbursements from the fund.
   E.   Hiring any staff necessary for the implementation or upgrade of the
system. (Ord. 2016-9, 10-11-2016)
3-2-8: REVENUES:
All monies received by the ETSB pursuant to a surcharge imposed under 50
Illinois Compiled Statutes 750/15.3, shall be deposited into a separate
interest-bearing Emergency Telephone System Fund account. The County Treasurer
shall be custodian of the fund. All interest accruing on the fund shall remain
in the fund. No expenditures may be made from the fund except upon the
direction of the ETSB by resolution passed by a majority of all members of the
ETSB. Expenditures from surcharge revenue received under the Emergency
Telephone System Act may be made only to pay for the costs associated with the
following described in 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 750/35.
   A.   The design of the emergency telephone system (the system).
   B.   The coding of an initial master street address guide database and
update and maintenance thereof.
   C.   Repayment of any monies advanced for the implementation of the system.
   D.   The charges for automatic number identification and automatic location
identification equipment, a computer aided dispatch system that records,
maintains, and integrates information, mobile data transmitters equipped with
automatic vehicle locators, and maintenance, replacement and update thereof to
increase operational efficiency and improve the provision of emergency
services.
   E.   The nonrecurring charges related to installation of the emergency
telephone system.
   F.   The acquisition and installation, or the reimbursement of costs
therefor to other governmental bodies that have incurred those costs, of road
or street signs that are essential to the implementation of the emergency
telephone system and that are not duplicative of signs that are the
responsibility of the jurisdiction charged with maintaining road and street
signs.
   G.   Other products and services necessary for the implementation, upgrade
and maintenance of the system and any other purpose related to the operation of
the system, including costs attributable directly to construction, leasing or
maintenance of any buildings or facilities or costs of personnel attributable
directly to the operation of the system. Costs attributable directly to the
operation of the emergency telephone system do not include the costs of public
safety agency personnel who are, and equipment that is, dispatched in response
to an emergency call.
   H.   The defraying of expenses incurred to implement Next Generation
9-1-1, subject to the conditions set forth in the Emergency Telephone System
Act.
   I.   The implementation of a computer aided dispatch system or hosted
supplemental
9-1-1 services.
   J.   The design, implementation, operation, maintenance, or upgrade of the
wireless
9-1-1 or E9-1-1 emergency services and public safety answering point. (Ord.
2016-9, 10-11-2016)
3-2-9: FIVE YEAR PLAN:
The ETSB shall annually submit to the County Board a five year plan for the
operation, maintenance, improvement, and upgrading of the system. Such plan
shall be submitted with the ETSB's annual budget proposal. (Ord. 2012-5, 3-13-
2012)
CHAPTER 3
CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU BOARD
SECTION:
3-3-1: Board Created
3-3-2: Purpose And Duties
3-3-3: Membership; Appointment And Terms; Qualifications; Organization;
Removals
3-3-4: Review Of Provisions
3-3-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created a board of directors known as the Galena/Jo Daviess
County convention and visitors bureau board of directors, hereinafter referred
to as the "CVB board". (Ord. 2010-1, 1-12-2010)
3-3-2: PURPOSE AND DUTIES:
The purpose of the CVB board shall be to direct and assist the bureau and the
county board, hereinafter referred to as the "board", on matters relating to
tourism in the county and the use and distribution of county tourism promotion
funds. In so doing, the CVB board shall develop year round sustainable tourism
for the county in a manner which will favorably impact the quality of life and
economic well being of the residents by doing the following:
   A.   Reviewing and directing plans, programs, projects and events that
encourage tourism in and attract overnight visitors to the county.
   B.   Reviewing and directing activities, publications or programs that
promote or otherwise advance the county as an attractive place to visit or to
conduct meetings, sporting events, festivals or conventions.
   C.   Reviewing and evaluating funding requests, and making recommendations
to the board concerning the funding and promotion of projects and events that
promote tourism in and attract overnight visitors to the county.
   D.   Performing additional functions and activities as may from time to time
arise that promote tourism in and attract overnight visitors to the county.
   E.   Performing such functions and activities in addition to the foregoing
as the board may from time to time direct. (Ord. 2010-1, 1-12-2010)
3-3-3: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS; QUALIFICATIONS; ORGANIZATION;
REMOVALS:
The CVB board:
   A.   Membership; Appointment; Chairperson: Shall consist of nine (9) voting
members, of which eight (8) are appointed by the existing CVB board and one is
appointed by the Jo Daviess County board chairperson. The eight (8) CVB board
appointed members shall be representative of various geographic and business
segments of the county, as described under article III, section B, of the CVB
board's bylaws. There shall be a maximum of two (2) board members representing
businesses located with the city of Galena. The CVB executive director shall be
an ex officio nonvoting member who shall otherwise have all rights of a voting
member including debate and making formal motions.
   B.   Terms Of Office; Vacancies: Shall serve for three (3) year terms. Upon
appointment, the chairperson of the CVB board shall designate the length of a
member's initial term, i.e., one year, two (2) years or three (3) years, and
thereafter, all members shall serve for a term of three (3) years. Vacancies
shall be filled by an action of the CVB board.
   C.   Qualifications: Shall be residents of the county, owners of a business
operating in the county or principal managers of a business operating in the
county.
   D.   Officers: Shall elect a chairperson from among its members and such
other officers as it may deem necessary from time to time to effectively carry
out its responsibilities.
   E.   Rules And Regulations: Shall establish reasonable rules and regulations
to govern its functioning that are consistent with the powers and duties set
forth herein, including the establishment of a regular meeting time and date to
conduct its business.
   F.   Removal From Board: May be removed by a majority vote of the CVB board
when, in the CVB board judgment, the best interests of the county would be
served by such removal. (Ord. 2010-1, 1-12-2010)
3-3-4: REVIEW OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be reviewed by the county board on or before November 14,
2010, and every three (3) years thereafter. (Ord. 2010-1, 1-12-2010)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: State Law Incorporated
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Administration Of Provisions
4-1-4: License Required
4-1-5: Applications For Licenses; Fee
4-1-6: Investigation Of Applicant
4-1-7: Denial Of License To Certain Persons
4-1-8: Expiration Of License; Contents
4-1-9: Renewal Of License
4-1-10: Posting Of License
4-1-11: Townships Prohibiting Liquor Sales
4-1-12: Effect Of Issuing New Licenses
4-1-13: Control Of Number Of Licenses
4-1-14: Classification Of Licenses
4-1-15: License Fees
4-1-16: Special Licenses
4-1-17: Nontransferability Of License
4-1-18: Operation Of Business Under Assumed Name; Change In Ownership
4-1-19: Building, Premises And Location Requirements
4-1-20: Days And Hours Of Operations
4-1-21: Prohibited Sales Generally
4-1-22: Drugs And Drug Paraphernalia
4-1-23: Conduct On Premises; Aid To Police
4-1-24: Underage Persons
4-1-25: Additional Prohibited Acts
4-1-26: Security Requirements
4-1-27: Inspections; Entry Powers
4-1-28: Evasion Of Law
4-1-29: Violations; Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Fine
4-1-30: Appeals
4-1-1: STATE LAW INCORPORATED:
All provisions of the liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., shall be hereby made part of this chapter insofar as
the provisions of such law pertain to the county. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, ale, or other liquid
containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume,
patented or not containing more than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol
by volume, which is capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
CANCELED LICENSE: One that has been voluntarily surrendered by the licensee.
LAPSED LICENSE: A complete application for renewal of the license shall not
have been filed on or prior to the expiration date of such license.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises specified in a retail alcoholic liquor license
on which the holder of the license is authorized to sell at retail alcoholic
liquor.
LICENSEE: The holder of a retail alcoholic liquor license issued pursuant to
this chapter.
PREMISES: Includes all parking areas and land contiguous to the building where
the sale of alcoholic beverages occurs and belonging to the owner/licensee of
the premises.
REVOKED LICENSE: One that has been made inoperative pursuant to law. (Ord., 11-
14-1995)
4-1-3: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Liquor Control Commissioner: The chair of the county board shall be the
county liquor control commissioner who shall be charged with the administration
of the appropriate provisions of state law and this chapter.
   B.   Liquor Commission:
      1.   Appointment: The chair of the county board shall appoint two (2) of
its members to assist him in the exercise of his powers and the performance of
the duties of this chapter and state law. Such members, together with the
chair, shall constitute the county liquor commission.
      2.   Compensation: The members of the liquor control commission shall be
paid the prevailing fee or compensation received by them as members of the
county board for each day spent by them in actual performance of their duties
under the terms of this chapter and of state law. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, bottle, blend, sell,
barter, transport, deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for
beverage purposes in the county in the territory outside the limits of any city
or incorporated town or village without having first obtained a retailer's
license to do so issued by the county liquor control commissioner in keeping
with the provisions of this chapter and the state liquor control act. (Ord.,
11-14-1995)
4-1-5: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES; FEE:
   A.   In Writing; Form; Contents: All initial applications, renewal
applications, and location transfer applications for licenses from the county
liquor control commission shall be made in writing with the county clerk, and
shall be made under oath and on forms of application furnished by the county
clerk. The applications shall contain the information requests and statements
as set out in state law for state licenses. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
   B.   Scale Drawing: Each application shall be accompanied by an accurate
scale drawing of the site of the premises proposed to be licensed, and of the
surrounding area for a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') from the
boundaries of the site, showing the locations of streets and property lines.
This subsection shall not, however, apply to a renewal of any existing liquor
license in the same locations or to special license applicants, but shall only
apply to initial applications and to renewals or transfers of existing licenses
to different or new locations. (Ord., 5-12-1998)
   C.   Documentation Of Ownership Or Lease Of Premises: Each application shall
be accompanied by documentation establishing that the applicant either owns the
proposed licensed premises or possesses a bona fide leasehold interest in the
proposed licensed premises covering the time period for which the license is
being requested.
   D.   Employee Information: All applications shall be accompanied by a
written list, verified by the applicant, stating the name, address, age, length
of residence in the county, and all managers to be employed by the applicant in
connection with the retail sale of alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises.
Holders of liquor licenses issued under this chapter shall also, within ten
(10) days after employment commences, report to the county liquor control
commission, in writing, the name, address, age, length of residence in the
county, and all managers who become employed by the licensee subsequent to the
filing of the employee list referred to in the immediately preceding sentence.
   E.   Application Fee; Exemptions: A nonrefundable application fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the county clerk at the time of filing an
initial application or location transfer. This section shall not apply to
special licenses, or renewals as defined in this chapter.
   F.   Advance Payment Of License Fees; Refunds: All license fees shall be
paid in full in advance and shall accompany the application for such license.
If an application is for any reason denied by the county liquor control
commission, the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
   G.   Disposition Of Fees: The county clerk shall turn over all application
fees and license fees to the county treasurer to be deposited in the county
general fund. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
All applications for licenses shall be referred to the county liquor control
commission. The commission is empowered to grant licenses subject to the
provisions set forth in state law and this chapter. It shall be the duty of the
commission to check the applicant's record with the county sheriff and the
state's attorney of the county. If any applicant for a liquor license shall not
have resided in the county for at least ten (10) years immediately prior to his
application, the commission shall have the duty to inquire of the police
department, county sheriff and state's attorney in the county wherein the
applicant has resided during the ten (10) years immediately prior to the date
of his application. (Ord., 5-12-1998)
4-1-7: DENIAL OF LICENSE TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
No license of any kind shall be issued by the county liquor control
commissioner to:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the county.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law/statute.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor opposed to
decency and morality.
   F.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   H.   A copartnership, if any member thereof would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than the failure to maintain his
residence within the county. In order to obtain a license, at least one member
of the partnership must maintain his residence within the county.
   I.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the corporation would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship or residence within the county. (Ord., 11-14-
1995)
   J.   A limited liability company (LLC), if any manager of the LLC or any
member owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the LLC, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship or residence within the county. (Ord., 6-9-1998)
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent who
does not possess these qualifications required by the licensee.
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor, or shall have
forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
   M.   A person who does not own the premises for which the license is sought
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued.
   N.   Any law enforcing official, including any member of the county board,
and no such official shall be interested directly or indirectly in the sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquors; except, that a license may be granted to
such official in relation to premises which are not located within the
territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official, provided the issuance
of such license is approved by the appropriate authorities. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
   A.   All licenses issued by the commission shall be annual licenses and
shall expire on December 31 following their issuance and shall state thereon
the name of the licensee and the address and description of the premises for
which the license is granted, together with the date of its issuance and
expiration. (Ord., 5-12-1998)
   B.   Each license shall contain the following clause: "Subject to revocation
and under such restrictions and regulations as provided by the Illinois Liquor
Control Act and resolutions of the county board regulating the sale at retail
of alcoholic liquor and laws and resolutions amendatory thereto".
   C.   All licenses shall be signed by the county liquor control commissioner.
(Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-9: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided,
that he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such
renewal is sought is suitable for such purpose; and provided further, that the
renewal privilege provided for in this subsection shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall in any case prevent the County Liquor Control
Commission from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its
jurisdiction.
   B.   All applications for renewal of a regular license must be submitted by
December 1 of the year prior to the year for which the applicant is making
application.
   C.   Every renewal shall be in all respects identical with the original or
first license. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business under this
chapter to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent and conspicuous
place on the premises used for such business. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-11: TOWNSHIPS PROHIBITING LIQUOR SALES:
If a township in the County shall by vote of the people prohibit the sale at
retail of alcoholic liquor, no such licenses issued and operating within such
territory shall be transferable to other townships, but shall be deemed
belonging to such territory and shall remain inoperative until the people, by
popular vote, reestablish the sale of alcoholic liquor in such territory, at
which time such licensee shall have priority right to renewal; provided, that
all provisions of the law and this chapter have been complied with. (Ord., 11-
14-1995)
4-1-12: EFFECT OF ISSUING NEW LICENSES:
Nothing by reason of the issuance of a new license, or the issuance of a
license either in connection with the transfer of a business to a new location
or to a new owner at an old location, shall entitle any other applicant to a
license for other premises. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-13: CONTROL OF NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The County Liquor Control Commission may set from time to time, as public
welfare seems to warrant, a limit to the total licenses to be issued in the
County for any locality, neighborhood, or part of the County. The County Liquor
Control Commission may in like manner decrease the number of licenses to be
issued within its jurisdiction at the termination of the annual license year.
(Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-14: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
The following classification of licenses shall be issued by the County Liquor
Control Commissioner for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to this
chapter:
   A.   Class A License: A Class A license shall be known as a general liquor
license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the drink on the premises
of the licensee as well as by the package for purposes of consumption off the
premises of the licensee.
   B.   Class B License: A Class B license shall be known as the package goods
only license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the package only for
consumption off the premises of the licensee. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
   C.   Class C License: A Class C license shall be known as the by the drink
only license authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor by the drink only. This
license shall be issued only to corporations chartered under the Illinois Not
For Profit Corporation Act, 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 105/101.01 et seq.
(Ord., 11-14-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
   D.   Class D License: A Class D license shall be known as the package goods
beer and wine only license authorizing the sale of package beer and wine only
for purposes of consumption off the premises of the licensee.
   E.   Class E License: A Class E license shall be known as a vineyard license
authorizing the sale of wine only by the drink for consumption on the premises
or packaged wine only for consumption off the premises of the licensee. (Ord.,
11-14-1995)
   F.   Class F License: A Class F license shall be known as a bed and
breakfast inn retailer's license and shall authorize the retail sale of wine
and/or beer for consumption on the premises only, and by guests of the lodging
establishment only, subject to the terms and restrictions of this and all other
pertinent sections of this chapter. (Ord. 2017-4, 4-10-2017)
   G.   Class G License: A Class G license shall be known as a caterer retailer
license and shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquors for
consumption, either on-site or off-site, whether the location is licensed or
unlicensed, as an incidental part of food service. Prepared meals and alcoholic
liquors are to be sold at a package price agreed upon under contract, subject
to terms and restrictions of this and all other pertinent sections of this
Code. (Ord. 2018-14, 11-13-2018)
   H.   Class H License: A Class H license shall be known as a seasonal limited
license and shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine for consumption on
the premises of the licensee, or packaged beer and wine for consumption off the
premises of the licensee. A Class H license shall be in effect for no more than
a consecutive six (6) month period during the calendar year of issuance. (Ord.
O2024-5, 5-14-2024)
4-1-15: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: The following fees are hereby established for the
following licenses: (Ord., 11-14-1995)
Class A license $1,400.00
Class B license 1,050.00
Class C license 600.00
Class D license 500.00
Class E license 600.00
Class F license $300.00 (plus $50.00 application fee)
Class G license $800.00 (plus $50.00 application fee)
Class H license $300.00 (plus $50.00 application fee)
 
 
(Ord., 8-12-2003; amd. Ord. 2017-4, 4-10-2017; Ord. 2018-14, 11-13-2018; Ord.
O2024-5, 5-14-2024)
   B.   Fees Nonrefundable: Any fee required by this chapter shall not be
refundable for any reason.
   C.   Proration Of Fees: The license fee for an initial license, where
application is made and the retail license is granted during the first six (6)
months of each license year, shall be the entire fee required by this chapter
for the annual license year. Where application is made and license granted
during the last six (6) months of any license year, the license fee shall be
one-half (1/2) of the entire fee required for the annual license year. Where
application is made and the retail license granted during the last three (3)
months of any license year, the license fee shall be one-fourth (1/4) of the
entire fee required for the annual license year; provided, that the benefit
granted by this subsection shall not be allowed to any person who has been a
licensee for the annual license year or part thereof preceding the application
for a license. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-16: SPECIAL LICENSES:
Subject to all the terms, conditions and requirements of this chapter, except
where noted, the following special licenses may be issued under the following
terms and conditions:
   A.   Class X-1 License: A Class X-1 license shall be known as the special
not for profit organization limited license to be issued only to not for profit
organizations with the following limitations:
      1.   Only beer and wine shall be sold and consumed. All sales, delivery
and consumption shall be confined to the internal portion of the premises or a
fenced in area, with no more than one point of ingress and egress, other than
into the internal portion of the licensed premises, provided said point of
access is monitored at all times of operation. Any such fence is to be
provided, installed and maintained by the licensee.
      2.   That said not for profit organization shall be open for business no
earlier than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and shall close no later than two
o'clock (2:00) A.M.
      3.   That said not for profit organization shall employ sufficient help
to maintain the fences in the area in good condition, adequately police the
area and provide such persons as are required to maintain order. (Ord., 11-14-
1995)
      4.   That the license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first
day and twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each consecutive day thereafter.
(Ord., 8-12-2003)
   B.   Class X-2 License: A Class X-2 license shall be known as private or
public organization limited license to be issued only to private or public
organizations other than not for profit organizations with the following
limitations:
      1.   That this license shall permit the sale of alcoholic beverages by
the drink only and that no packaged alcoholic beverages shall be sold and that
all said beverages by the drink shall be consumed within the confines of the
premises being occupied by said organization during the term of this license.
      2.   All sales, delivery, and consumption shall be confined to the
internal portion of the premises or a fenced in area, with no more than one
point of ingress and egress, other than into the internal portion of any
licensed premises, provided said point of access is monitored at all times of
operation. Any such fence is to be provided, installed and maintained by the
licensee.
      3.   That said private or public organization shall employ sufficient
help to maintain said premises in a good, clean condition, adequately police
the area and shall furnish such persons as are required to maintain order.
      4.   That this license shall be issued for a maximum period of twelve
(12) consecutive hours beginning no earlier than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
and ending no later than two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
      5.   That the license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord., 11-14-
1995)
4-1-17: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter, and shall not
constitute property; nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution; nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of the state or intestate devolution, but shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, which such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, under the order of the appropriate court, may exercise the privileges
of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license,
but no longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of
such licensee. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-18: OPERATION OF BUSINESS UNDER ASSUMED NAME; CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP:
Every licensee under this chapter who does, conducts or transacts business
under an assumed name shall be required to comply with the terms and provisions
of the assumed business name act, 805 Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/0.01 et
seq. If one or more members of a firm or partnership withdraw from such
business, the business may be continued by the remaining persons or partners
under the liquor license for the remainder of the period for which the license
was issued to the licensee. The change in ownership, however, shall be reported
immediately to the county liquor control commission, and the change shall be
shown immediately on the original license application then in effect filed in
the office of the county clerk. The failure by any licensee under this chapter
to comply with the provisions of any part of this section shall be considered
and deemed cause for the revocation and cancellation of the liquor license
issued under this chapter by the county liquor control commission. (Ord., 11-
14-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
4-1-19: BUILDING, PREMISES AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitary Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or the storage of such liquor for sale shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with all applicable
county ordinances and state statutes including, but not limited to, the health
codes, zoning ordinances and building codes.
   B.   View From Street: In any premises upon which the sale or offer of sale
of alcoholic liquor upon the premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain,
partition, article or any other obstruction shall be permitted in the windows
or upon the doors of such premises nor inside such premises which shall prevent
a clear view into the interior of such premises from the street, lot or
sidewalk, at all times; and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction
nor any area of lights or lighting shall be permitted in and upon the interior
of such premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such
premises from the street, lot or sidewalk, and such premises must be so located
that there shall be full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk.
   C.   Location Restrictions:
      1.   Retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only in the premises described in the application and license.
      2.   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic
liquor within five hundred feet (500') of any church, school, hospital, home
for the aged or for indigent persons or for veterans. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-20: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor in those sections of the county covered by this chapter between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.; except, that it
shall also be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor
in those sections of the county covered by this chapter between the hours of
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Sunday and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. Sunday.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit the public
for business or to admit the public to any premises in or on which alcoholic
liquor is sold at retail during the hours or days during which the sale of such
liquor is prohibited; except, that in the case of restaurants, hotels, grocery
stores, and convenience stores selling a combination of groceries and other
commodities, such establishments may be kept open during such hours, but no
alcoholic liquor may be sold to be consumed by the public during such hours,
except in accordance with subsection A of this section.
   C.   No licensee shall keep open for business or admit the public to any
premises in or on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during hours within
which the sale of such liquor is prohibited, nor permit or allow any persons to
remain in said premises except the licensee and regular employees; no alcoholic
liquor may be sold to, given to or consumed by the public during such hours.
(Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-21: PROHIBITED SALES GENERALLY:
   A.   No licensee or employee or agent of the licensee shall:
      1.   Sell, offer for sale, or furnish alcoholic liquor to any person
except on the licensed premises.
      2.   Knowingly permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor in a parked
automobile on the licensed premises.
      3.   Knowingly permit any person to carry or otherwise transport
alcoholic liquor from the licensed premises in an open or unsealed container.
      4.   Conduct outdoor sales of alcoholic liquor or permit outdoor
consumption of alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises, except as provided in
subsections B and C of this section.
   B.    Class A, C, and E licensees may sell alcoholic liquor for outdoor
consumption on the licensed premises, provided:
      1.   The area in which the outdoor sales and/or consumption of alcoholic
liquor takes place is contiguous to the building on the licensed premises in
which the licensee primarily conducts the retail sale of alcoholic liquor;
      2.   The outdoor sale and consumption area is enclosed by means of a
fence; and
      3.   Ingress to and egress from the outdoor sale and consumption area is
only accessible from and into the building on the licensed premises in which
the licensee primarily conducts the retail sale of alcoholic liquor.
   C.   Special license holders may sell alcoholic liquor for outdoor
consumption as provided in section
4-1-16 of this chapter. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-22: DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Sale, Use Or Delivery Of Drugs: No licensee or employee of any premises
licensed under this chapter shall, on the premises or elsewhere, sell, use,
possess or deliver, with or without consideration, any cocaine, heroin,
cannabis, or any other substance whose possession, sale, use or delivery is
controlled by 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 620/1 et seq.
   B.   Drug Paraphernalia:
      1.   Sale: No licensee or employee of any premises licensed under this
chapter shall, on the licensed premises, sell, keep for sale, offer for sale or
delivery for any commercial consideration any drug paraphernalia whose sale or
delivery is prohibited by the drug paraphernalia control act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq.
      2.   Possession: No licensee or employee of any premises licensed under
this chapter shall possess on his person or on the licensed premises in those
areas controlled solely by the licensee and not generally open to the public
any drug paraphernalia whose sale or delivery is prohibited by the Illinois
drug paraphernalia control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/1 et seq.
   C.   Violations; Penalties:
      1.   A violation of subsection A of this section by a licensee shall
result in the revocation of the license, and all fees paid thereon shall be
forfeited.
      2.   A violation of subsection A of this section by an employee of a
licensee or a violation of subsection B of this section by a licensee or
employee will result in a suspension or revocation of such license.
      3.   In the case of revocation, all fees paid for the license shall be
forfeited. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-23: CONDUCT ON PREMISES; AID TO POLICE:
   A.   Loitering Of Drunk Persons; Presence Of Criminals; Aid To Police: It
shall be a violation of this chapter for any licensee or employee or agent of
the licensee to allow persons in a drunken condition to remain upon or loiter
in and around the licensed premises; to harbor, conceal, aid or assist any
person who has committed any criminal offense against the laws of the state; or
to refuse to aid or assist law enforcement officers of the county in the
apprehension of persons accused or suspected of committing a crime.
   B.   Maintain Peace And Order: It shall be the personal responsibility and
duty of the licensee to maintain peace and order on the licensed premises and
to maintain the premises free from rowdiness, rioting, fighting, brawling,
shooting, cuttings, stabbings and any and all such related conduct. (Ord., 11-
14-1995)
4-1-24: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Employment:
      1.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be employed on a
licensed premises while the premises is open for business, except as provided
in subsections A3 and A4 of this section.
      2.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall be employed in any
position involving the drawing, pouring, mixing or otherwise dispensing of
alcoholic liquors.
      3.   It shall not be a violation of this chapter for a person under
eighteen (18) years of age to be employed on a licensed premises during open
business hours if the licensee is or operates a restaurant, club, hotel,
bowling alley, as defined in the liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., or a grocery store or other retail
establishment which is not used exclusively or primarily for the sale and/or
consumption of alcoholic liquor, and the employment does not directly involve
the sale, dispensing, or delivery of alcoholic liquor.
      4.   It shall not be a violation of this chapter for a person under
eighteen (18) years of age to be employed on a licensed premises during open
business hours if the employment is for the purpose of providing entertainment
on the licensed premises, and the person under eighteen (18) years of age is
part of an act in which his parent, parents, or guardian appears.
   B.   Underage Persons On Premises: It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to enter upon any licensed
premises unless such person is accompanied by his parent or legally appointed
guardian, or such person is in the exercise of his legitimate business, trade
or employment. This subsection does not apply to restaurants, clubs, or hotels,
nor to those portions of bowling alleys, grocery stores, drugstores, or other
retail establishments which are not used exclusively or primarily for the sale
and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   C.   Purchase, Consumption Or Possession By 1 :
      1.   It shall be a violation for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to purchase or otherwise obtain or consume alcoholic liquor on a
licensed premises.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to purchase, accept, receive, transport or have in his or her possession
any alcoholic liquor. (Ord., 11-14-1995; amd. Ord. O2024-6, 5-14-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-12-3 of this code.
4-1-25: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Illegal Activities: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
licensee or employee or agent of the licensee to engage in any activity or
conduct, or to allow any other person to engage in any activity or conduct, in,
on, or about the licensed premises which is prohibited by any ordinance of the
county, law of the state, or law of the United States.
   B.   Sales To Habitual Drunkards: No licensee shall sell, give or deliver
alcoholic liquor to any person known to him to be an habitual drunkard.
   C.   Nudity: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any licensee or
employee or agent of the licensee to allow or otherwise participate in any kind
of agreement or arrangement which allows or requires any person to appear
before or amidst the public in attendance at the licensed premises in the nude
or in any kind of apparel which as worn, or by virtue of its design, fit, or
material, makes visible any portions of such person's:
      1.   Genitalia;
      2.   Pubic hair or pubic hair region;
      3.   Anus and/or anal crevice; or
      4.   If such person is a female, her breast at or below, and including,
the areola.
   D.   Public Intoxication, Consumption Or Possession:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated
condition upon any street, alley or other public place in the county.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor or
possess open liquor in any street or alley in the county. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-26: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
On the licensed premises where dancing is permitted or where, in the judgment
of the liquor control commission, it is necessary for the purpose of keeping
order, or where, in the judgment of the commission, the parking or departing of
automobiles is obstructing or endangering traffic, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, upon the request of the commission, to engage a security officer at
the expense of the licensee during such hours as it may be deemed necessary by
the commission. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-27: INSPECTIONS; ENTRY POWERS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for a licensee or an employee or agent
of the licensee to at any time refuse to allow a county liquor control
commissioner or any law enforcement officer to enter the licensed premises for
the purpose of examining the premises to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-28: EVASION OF LAW:
The free dispensing, giving away or delivering of any alcoholic liquor for the
purpose of evading any provisions of this chapter or state law or any other
shift or device to evade any provision of this chapter shall be held to be an
unlawful selling and shall constitute grounds for revocation of a liquor
license. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-29: VIOLATIONS; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINE:
   A.   Violations By Licensee, Agent Or Employee; Revocation: If any licensee
or agent or employee of the licensee shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, or any law of the state, relating to liquor control, or shall
make any false statement in obtaining a license, such license may be revoked by
the county liquor control commission, with all fees paid thereon forfeited.
   B.   Violations By Licensee; Revocation Or Suspension; Fine In Lieu:
      1.   The liquor commissioner may revoke or suspend any license issued by
him if he determines that the licensee has violated any provisions of this
chapter or any provision of the liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq. In lieu of suspension or revocation, the liquor
commissioner may instead levy a fine against the licensee for such violation.
(Ord., 11-14-1995)
      2.   Any suspension imposed shall be for a period not exceeding thirty
(30) days. Any fine imposed shall be for an amount not to exceed that provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation; each day on which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord., 11-14-1995; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Notice Of Violation; Imposition Of Penalties:
      1.   No license shall be revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be
fined except after a public hearing by the liquor commission with a three (3)
day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to
appear and defend. Following such hearing, the commissioner shall reduce all
evidence to writing and shall maintain an official record of the proceedings.
The commissioner shall, within five (5) days after such hearing, if he
determines that the license should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee
should be fined, state the reason or reasons for such determination in a
written order to be served upon the licensee.
      2.   The commissioner may, if he has reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community, upon the issuance of a written order, stating his
reasons, close the premises for a period not to exceed seven (7) days. In such
cases, the licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard during the seven
(7) day period. In the event said licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct
of another business on the licensed premises, such order shall not be
applicable to such other businesses.
   D.   Hearing:
      1.   Any licensee having received written notice of a violation of this
chapter shall be entitled to a hearing before the liquor control commission to
contest the findings and recommendations of the liquor control commissioner.
      2.   To demand a hearing, the licensee must file his written request for
hearing with the county clerk within five (5) days of receiving his notice of
violation.
      3.   The liquor control commission shall schedule a hearing within
fourteen (14) days of receiving the request for hearing.
      4.   At the hearing, the county shall be represented by the state's
attorney. Both the county and the licensee shall be entitled to present
evidence and witnesses. The liquor control commission shall render its decision
within five (5) days of the close of the hearing. (Ord., 11-14-1995)
4-1-30: APPEALS:
   A.   All appeals of decisions of the liquor control commission shall follow
the procedure set forth in section 7-9 of the liquor control act of 1934, 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-9.
   B.   An appeal from any order of the county liquor control commission to the
state liquor control commission shall be limited to a review of the official
record of the proceedings of the county liquor control commission. (Ord., 11-
14-1995)
CHAPTER 2
DANCE HALLS AND ROADHOUSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definition
4-2-2: Administration And Enforcement Authority
4-2-3: License Required
4-2-4: Application For License; Qualifications Of Licensee; Building And
Premises Requirements
4-2-5: License Fee
4-2-6: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Of License
4-2-7: Expiration Of License; Renewals
4-2-8: Hours Of Operation
4-2-9: Security Personnel
4-2-10: Persons Prohibited On Premises
4-2-11: Revocation Of License
4-2-12: Violations
4-2-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, a "public dance hall or roadhouse" shall be defined as
any building, hall, or place, the rules for admission to which are not based
upon personal selection or invitation, maintained for the use of the public to
engage primarily and predominantly, but not necessarily exclusively, in the
activity of dancing for amusement. (People v. Dever, 237 Ill. App. 65, 69
(1925)). (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-1)
4-2-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
   A.   The county board shall issue a license for the operation or maintenance
of a public dance hall or roadhouse for the use of the general public outside
the limits of any city, village, or incorporated town in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The county board may revoke such license for causes herein provided.
(1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-2)
4-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a public
dance hall or roadhouse for the use of the general public outside of the limits
of any city, village or incorporated town in the county without first obtaining
a license for such activity from the county board. (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-2)
4-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE; BUILDING AND
PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
A license to operate or maintain a dance hall or roadhouse shall be issued by
the county board to any citizen, firm, or corporation of the state of Illinois,
who: (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-3; amd. 2009 Code)
   A.   Submits to the county board and files with the county clerk a written
application for a license, which application shall state, and the applicant
shall state under oath:
      1.   The name, address and residence of the applicant, and the length of
time he has lived at that residence.
      2.   The place of birth of the applicant and, if the applicant is a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of such naturalization.
      3.   That the applicant has never been convicted of a felony. (1977 Code
ch. 4 § 4-3)
      4.   The location of the place or building where the applicant intends to
operate or maintain the dance hall or roadhouse. (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-3; amd.
2009 Code)
   B.   And who establishes:
      1.   That he is a person of good moral character; and
      2.   That the place or building where the dance hall or roadhouse is to
be operated or maintained, reasonably conforms to all laws and health and fire
regulations applicable thereto, and is properly ventilated and supplied with
separate and sufficient toilet arrangements for each sex, and is a safe and
proper place or building for a public dance hall or roadhouse. (1977 Code ch. 4
§ 4-3)
4-2-5: LICENSE FEE:
A license fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid by the applicant at
the time application is made. (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-4)
4-2-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The county board may make a thorough investigation to determine the fitness of
the applicant and the truth of the statements made in and accompanying the
application, but the decision of the county board on an application to issue or
renew a license shall be rendered within thirty (30) days after the application
is received. (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-4)
4-2-7: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
Any license which is granted by the county board for the operation or
maintenance of public dance halls or roadhouses shall expire at the end of one
year from the date it is issued. Old licenses may be renewed for the period of
one year on application being made therefor to the county board. (1977 Code ch.
4 § 4-2)
4-2-8: HOURS OF OPERATION:
All dance halls and roadhouses subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
be open to the public only between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and
two o'clock (2:00) A.M. (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-5)
4-2-9: SECURITY PERSONNEL:
During the hours a dance hall or roadhouse which is subject to the provisions
of this chapter is open to the public, the licensee shall provide at his own
expense sufficient personnel at the dance hall or roadhouse to maintain and
preserve good order and to enforce other rules and regulations as tend to
promote good order and morals. (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-6)
4-2-10: PERSONS PROHIBITED ON PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any known prostitute, male or female procurer, vagrant
or intoxicated person to be present at any dance hall or roadhouse licensed
under this chapter, and it is unlawful for the operator of any public dance
hall or roadhouse to permit such persons to be present on the premises. (1977
Code ch. 4 § 4-8)
4-2-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds For Revocation: The chair of the county board may revoke the
license of any licensee:
      1.   When the dance hall or roadhouse, as operated and maintained,
unreasonably and needlessly disturbs the peace of the neighborhood.
      2.   When disorderly or immoral practices are permitted, or intoxicating
liquor is sold or served on the premises.
      3.   When circumstances happen or become known to the county board which,
had they happened or been known at the time of the application for the license,
would have legally justified the county board in refusing the license.
      4.   When such dance hall or roadhouse is opened or remains open outside
the hours designated by the county board.
      5.   When the licensee fails to provide sufficient personnel at the dance
hall or roadhouse to maintain and preserve good order.
      6.   When the licensee violates any of the rules and regulations issued
by the county board.
   B.   Term Of Revocation: When any license is revoked by the county board, a
license to operate a dance hall or roadhouse on such premises shall not be
issued until after a period of three (3) months has elapsed. (1977 Code ch. 4 §
4-7)
4-2-12: VIOLATIONS:
It is a petty offense for any person, firm or corporation to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. Each day of unlicensed operation shall constitute a
separate offense. (1977 Code ch. 4 § 4-9)
CHAPTER 3
PEDDLERS, HAWKERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Registration Required
4-3-2: Hours Restricted
4-3-3: Violation
4-3-1: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker, peddler, itinerant merchant or transient vendor of
merchandise in any area of the county not within the corporate limits of a
municipality which licenses or regulates hawkers, peddlers, itinerant merchants
and transient vendors of merchandise, without having first registered his name
and the name of any firm he represents with the county sheriff. (1977 Code ch.
61/2 § 61/2-1; amd. 2009 Code)
4-3-2: HOURS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker, peddler, itinerant merchant or transient vendor of
merchandise between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M., whether or not first registered. (1977 Code ch. 61/2 § 61/2-2)
4-3-3: VIOLATION:
A violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a petty offense.
(1977 Code ch. 61/2 § 61/2-3)
CHAPTER 4
RAFFLES
(Rep. by Ord., 11-18-2008, eff. 12-1-2008)
CHAPTER 5
BURGLAR AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
(Rep. by Ord. 2011-7, 10-11-2011, eff. 11-1-2011)
CHAPTER 6
GUEST ACCOMMODATIONS 1
SECTION:
4-6-1: Short Title
4-6-2: Purpose
4-6-3: Definitions
4-6-4: Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
4-6-5: License Required; Termination And Renewal
4-6-6: Application For License
4-6-7: License Fee
4-6-8: Insurance Required
4-6-9: Inspection Of Premises; Issuance Of License
4-6-10: Site And Structure Requirements; Utilities
4-6-11: Duties Of Operator And Licensee
4-6-12: Life Safety Code Adopted
4-6-13: Inspection
4-6-14: Revocation Of License
4-6-15: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-5B-46 of this code.
4-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter, including such rules and regulations it adopts by reference, is
entitled the county GUEST ACCOMMODATION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life,
limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the use
and occupancy and maintenance of all buildings used to house transient guests.
(Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
                      Any structure used or intended for supporting or
BUILDING:             sheltering any use or occupancy. The term "building"
                      shall be construed as if followed by the word "or portion
                      thereof".
                      A single building or multiple buildings located within
FACILITY:             one thousand feet (1,000') of each other, used as guest
                      accommodations, that are under the same ownership or
                      management.
                      Any facility containing sixteen (16) or fewer units, used
                      as sleeping accommodations, which are made available to
                      the public on a transient basis, for a charge. A
                      transient basis shall be any period of time less than
GUEST ACCOMMODATIONS: thirty (30) consecutive days. "Guest accommodations"
                      shall include, but are not limited to, lodging houses,
                      rooming houses, resorts, guest house/home, apartment, and
                      cabins. Unless otherwise specified, such facilities shall
                      meet the requirements of chapter 26 of the "life safety
                      code".
                      A single-family dwelling rented out on a transient basis
GUEST HOUSE/HOME:     for the purpose of providing guest accommodations to the
                      public for a charge. Such guest house or home shall meet
                      the requirements of chapter 24 of the "life safety code".
                      A facility with the capacity to serve more than sixteen
                      (16) persons in guestrooms or apartments, or combination
                      thereof, each of which has a separate, individual
MOTEL:                entrance and is designed, used or intended wholly or in
                      part for the accommodation of automobile transients. A
                      "motel" is an inn or group of cabins along a highway,
                      where motorists may spend the night.
                      A telephone refers to any device which uses a solid
TELEPHONE:            medium telephone line, such as a metal wire, fiber optic
                      cable, or digital service line for communication, as well
                      as a mobile cellular line phone.
TRANSIENT:            One who occupies a guest accommodation for less than
                      thirty (30) consecutive days.
                      Any stand-alone structure (e.g., cabin) or room (e.g.,
UNIT:                 bedroom) used for sleeping accommodations. (Ord. 2014-5,
                      7-8-2014; Ord. O2021-6, 9-14-2021)
 
4-6-4: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: The terms and conditions contained in this
chapter shall apply to all guest accommodations containing sixteen (16) or
fewer units in aggregate for each facility owned or managed by the same
individual or organization, exclusive of bed and breakfast facilities, which
are located outside of any municipality in the county.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare.
   C.   More Restrictive Provisions Apply: Where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises used for guest accommodation
purposes than are imposed or required by the provisions of existing ordinances,
rules and regulations, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (Ord.
2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-5: LICENSE REQUIRED; TERMINATION AND RENEWAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy for rental, a guest
accommodation, including lodging or rooming houses as defined by the NFPA,
exclusive of a bed and breakfast facility, within the boundaries of the county,
but outside the limits of the cities, villages and incorporated towns, without
having first secured a license therefor from the county building and zoning
administrator granted in compliance with the terms of this chapter. Dwelling
Units designed/constructed to be owned/used independently shall be licensed
individually. Such license shall terminate on the last day of the calendar year
following the date of issuance, but it may be renewed under the provisions of
this chapter for additional periods of one year. (Ord., 8-10-1999; amd. Ord.,
7-8-2014; Ord. O2022-1, 2-8-2022)
4-6-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for the license required by this chapter or renewal thereof
shall be filed with the building and zoning office and shall be accompanied by
the required fee. The application for a license or a renewal thereof shall be
made on printed forms furnished by the building and zoning office and shall
include the name and address of the applicant under which the facility shall be
occupied for rental, and a brief and concise description of the type of
facility being licensed, which shall include information as to location and
number of units. (Ord., 8-10-1999; amd. Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014; Ord. O2022-1, 2-
8-2022)
4-6-7: LICENSE FEE:
Any application for a guest accommodation or guest home/house license shall be
accompanied by a fee as set by the county board. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-8: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No license shall be issued prior to the owner of the establishment providing
the county with proof that liability insurance in an amount not less than one
hundred fifty thousand dollars/three hundred thousand dollars ($150,000.00/
$300,000.00) per occurrence exists with respect to such establishment. (Ord.
2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-9: INSPECTION OF PREMISES; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The county building and zoning administrator or his designated agent shall
complete an inspection of the facilities every two (2) years (or more often if
deemed necessary by the building and zoning administrator) and determine that
said facilities comply with the applicable federal, state and local laws and
regulations, including, but not limited to, the applicable requirements for
guest lodgings as provided for in the NFPA 101 life safety code (NFPA code),
the state and county public health requirements, the county building code and
provisions of this chapter. A copy of the inspection report shall be
conspicuously displayed within a public area of the accommodation. A license
shall be applied for and issued annually. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-10: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS; UTILITIES:
   A.   Occupancy: The occupancy of any single building used for guest
accommodations shall be limited to no more than: 1) two (2) persons per
bedroom, plus two (2) additional persons per building, not to exceed a maximum
of sixteen (16); or 2) no more than one person for every one hundred (100)
gallons of water per day that the building's septic system is designed to
handle, whichever number is smaller. The occupant load of each guestroom,
lodging or rooming house or rental home shall be posted in a prominent
location, and the occupant load shall not be exceeded. Adults and minors shall
be included in the occupancy count.
   B.   Septic Systems:
      1.   Every facility not on a central sewer must be on a septic system
that is designed and constructed to handle the maximum number of guests for
which the facility is licensed. If additional guest accommodations are added to
any facility, the septic capacity must be increased to handle the maximum
number of guests for which the addition is designed. Any expansion to the
septic system must meet all state and county regulations.
      2.   The septic system tank must be pumped out a minimum of once every
four (4) years or as often as the county health officer may require. A copy of
the pumper's report shall be provided to the building and zoning office.
   C.   Water Supply: The owner of every rental facility not on a central
municipal water system must have its well water tested a minimum of once every
year. The costs for such testing shall be the responsibility of the property
owner. A copy of the test results shall be provided to the building and zoning
office annually.
   D.   Mechanical Systems: Every facility utilizing any gas, oil or solid fuel
burning appliance or apparatus, including, but not limited to, furnaces,
fireplaces, wood stoves or hot water heaters, shall have each such appliance or
apparatus inspected annually by a heating technician. A copy of the inspection
report shall be provided to the building and zoning office annually.
   E.   Fire Department Requirements:
      1.   Minimum Requirements: Each building/facility shall meet the
applicable requirements of the NFPA code specific to the type of structure
licensed, and the additional requirements set forth in this subsection.
      2.   Smoke And Carbon Monoxide Detectors:
         a.   Detectors Required: Each facility shall be required to install
and maintain smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors according to the
following requirements:
            (1)   Smoke Detectors:
               (A)   Smoke detectors must be either permanently wired into the
building's AC power line, with battery backup, or be otherwise interrelated so
as to comprise a system that is, in the judgment of the county building and
zoning administrator, of equal or greater protection value.
               (B)   Multistation units shall be interconnected so that the
activation of one detector will activate all the detectors in the building or
will activate other centrally located warning devices.
               (C)   Smoke detectors shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the county regulations specific to the particular type of
structure licensed as a guest accommodation.
            (2)   Carbon Monoxide Detectors: Carbon monoxide detectors shall be
placed in each facility in accordance with Illinois law, 430 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 135/1 et seq., as amended. Such carbon monoxide detectors shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations.
      3.   Requirements For Emergencies:
         a.   Emergency Lighting: All guest facilities shall provide adequate
emergency lighting, as determined by the building and zoning administrator, of
the interior of the facility so as to provide any guest with sufficient light
to find an appropriate exit during a fire or other emergency.
         b.   Exit Requirements: All interior and exterior exits shall open
from the inside without the use of a key or special knowledge. All such exits
shall be of a width of thirty inches (30") or greater and shall not be blocked
or obstructed at any time.
         c.   Floor Plan: A floor plan of the building shall be maintained and
displayed in prominent location in each guest facility. The plan shall show the
location of each guestroom and the exit locations to be used for such
guestrooms in the event of fire. The licensee shall furnish two (2) copies of
the floor plan to the building and zoning office. The building and zoning
administrator shall provide a copy of each floor plan to the appropriate fire
chief.
         d.   Emergency Telephone: Each guest house or home shall provide a
telephone for emergency purposes. Such phone shall be available twenty four
(24) hours a day. A list of all emergency numbers shall be posted next to the
telephone. Property owners shall contact the Jo Daviess County sheriff's office
to schedule an emergency test call to confirm match to the licensed physical
address.
   F.   Access Roads: All access roads serving any guest facility shall be of
sufficient width and construction to accommodate emergency vehicles. Local fire
departments may designate minimum acceptable width required for access roads,
but in no case shall the width be less than ten feet (10').
   G.   Parking: Each and every facility shall provide no less than one parking
place for every two (2) persons for which the licensed facility provides
occupancy. Overnight parking on township, county or state roads adjacent to the
facility is prohibited. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014; Ord. O2021-6, 9-14-2021)
4-6-11: DUTIES OF OPERATOR AND LICENSEE:
It is hereby made the duty of the owner, licensee, or agent of the owner, in
charge of the facilities regulated by this chapter to:
   A.   Guest Information: Keep a record of the following information with
respect to the individual leasing the guest accommodation, and to make such
information available to the building and zoning office for review upon
request:
      1.   Name and address.
      2.   Dates of arrival and departure.
      3.   License number of the vehicle.
   B.   Maintenance Of Establishment: Maintain the facility in a clean, safe,
orderly and sanitary condition.
   C.   Compliance With Provisions; Report Violations: Ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and report to the proper authorities any
violations of this chapter or any other violations of law which may come to
their attention.
   D.   Visible Address: Comply with the county ordinance requiring that the
address of the facility be posted so as to be clearly visible from the street 1
.
   E.   Hotel Motel Tax Compliant: Owner or rental agent to report and submit
the hotel motel tax for each rental to the Jo Daviess County treasurer's office
as required by law. Failure to do so, may result in the revocation of the
owner's license pursuant to section
4-6-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
4-6-12: LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED:
For the proper enforcement of this chapter, the 2006 edition, and as amended
and updated, of the National Fire Protection Association 101 life safety code
chapters 24 and 26 are adopted as part of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-13: INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspection Required; Report Posted: Every guest accommodation shall be
subject to an inspection every two (2) years (or more often if deemed necessary
by the building and zoning administrator) by the county building and zoning
administrator, or his designated agent, to determine whether the accommodation
is in compliance with all state and county regulations. A copy of the
inspection report shall be conspicuously displayed within a public area of the
accommodation.
   B.   Correction Of Violation: The owner of the guest accommodation shall
have thirty (30) days in which to correct any violations discovered during the
inspection. Upon completion of any repairs or required modifications, the owner
shall request the building and zoning administrator, or his designated agent,
to perform a reinspection of the property. Failure to correct such violations
may result in the revocation of the owner's license pursuant to section
4-6-14 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-14: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The building and zoning administrator is hereby authorized to revoke any
license issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter if, after due
investigation, he determines that the holder thereof has repeatedly violated
any provisions of this chapter, or that any facility is being maintained in an
unsanitary or unsafe manner or is a nuisance. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
4-6-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a petty offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be assessed a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, the facility's license shall be
subject to revocation. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2014-5, 7-8-2014)
CHAPTER 7
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS 1
SECTION:
4-7-1: Purpose
4-7-2: State Regulations Adopted
4-7-3: Definitions
4-7-4: Administration Of Provisions
4-7-5: Compliance Required
4-7-6: Application For License
4-7-7: Insurance Required
4-7-8: License Fee And Term
4-7-9: Fire Department Requirements And Inspections
4-7-10: Food Service Inspection; Issuance Of License; Restrictions
4-7-11: Smoke Free Environment
4-7-12: Right Of Entry For Inspections
4-7-13: Violations; Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-5B-5 of this code.
4-7-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates the inspection of bed and breakfast establishments; the
issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to operate; the prohibiting of
the sale of unsound or mislabeled food or drink; and the compliance with all
fire department requirements in the county. (Ord., 4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption Of Regulations: This chapter is adopted by reference and shall
be interpreted and enforced in accordance with provisions set forth in the
current, unabridged form of the bed and breakfast act, 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 820/1 et seq.; smoke free Illinois act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes
82/1 et seq.; carbon monoxide alarm detector act, 430 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 135/1 et seq.; and the National Fire Protection Agency codes and
standards, any subsequent amendments or revisions thereto, three (3) certified
copies of which shall be on file in the office of the county clerk. (Ord., 4-7-
2008, eff. 4-7-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   Copies Available: Copies of the said or amended acts, along with any
amendments or revisions thereto, shall be provided to all persons operating or
applying for licensure to operate bed and breakfast establishments as defined
in this chapter. (Ord., 4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
Any terms set forth in this chapter shall have the same meanings as set forth
in the state bed and breakfast act. In addition, when used in this chapter, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The Jo Daviess County health department.
NFPA: The National Fire Protection Agency. (Ord., 4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-4: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
The county health department shall administer this chapter. (Ord., 4-7-2008,
eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-5: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Only those persons who comply with the requirements of this chapter may operate
a bed and breakfast establishment in the county. (Ord., 4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-
2008)
4-7-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Persons desiring to operate a bed and breakfast establishment shall make
written application for license on forms provided by the licensing agency. Such
application shall include information pertaining to the requirements specified
in the state bed and breakfast act. In addition, when the establishment is not
serviced by a public sewer and/or water facility, the applicant shall submit
documentation that:
   A.   The water supply is from a source constructed and operated according to
law. The well water must be tested a minimum of once every year, and the bed
and breakfast establishment owner must have a copy of results on file that will
be provided to the health authority at the time of inspection. Wells must be
sampled for coliform bacteria and nitrates until a safe water result is
obtained. The costs for such sampling shall be the responsibility of the
establishment owner.
   B.   The sewage disposal system is constructed and operating in conformance
with the applicable state and local ordinances, and is of sufficient size to
adequately treat the sewage produced. The septic tank must be pumped out a
minimum of once every three (3) years or as often as the health authority may
require. The bed and breakfast establishment owner must have a copy on file
that will be provided to the health authority at the time of inspection. (Ord.,
4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-7: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Each licensee shall maintain a minimum of one hundred fifty thousand dollars/
three hundred thousand dollars ($150,000.00/$300,000.00) liability insurance. A
certificate of insurance shall be tendered by license applicants at the time of
application. (Ord., 4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-8: LICENSE FEE AND TERM:
The licensing fee for the initial year and any subsequent year shall be set by
the Jo Daviess County board of health and approved by resolution of the Jo
Daviess County board. The licensing period shall be December 1 through November
30. (Ord. 2010-7, 10-12-2010)
4-7-9: FIRE DEPARTMENT REQUIREMENTS AND INSPECTIONS:
The licensee/applicant shall permit the local fire department to inspect the
premises of the proposed bed and breakfast facility for conformance with the
following regulations:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: Bed and breakfast establishments shall meet the
requirements for one- and two-family dwellings set out in chapter 24 of the
NFPA 101 life safety code, 2003 edition, and the additional requirements set
forth in this section.
   B.   Smoke Detectors And Carbon Monoxide Detectors:
      1.   Smoke detectors must be either permanently wired into the bed and
breakfast structure's AC power line, with battery backup, or be otherwise
interrelated so as to comprise a system that is, in the judgment of the local
fire chief, of equal or greater protection value.
      2.   Multistation units shall be interconnected so that the activation of
one detector will activate all of the detectors in the bed and breakfast
establishment or will activate other centrally located warning devices.
      3.   Smoke detectors shall be installed as follows: one in each guestroom
used for sleeping purposes; one in each main hallway or corridor on each floor;
one in each living room or lounge area; one in each dining room; and one in
each basement, workshop or mechanical room. There shall be at least one smoke
detector on each floor of the bed and breakfast establishment, excluding
unoccupied attics.
      4.   Carbon monoxide detectors shall be placed in each facility using any
form of a solid fuel burning appliance or apparatus. Every dwelling unit will
be required to have at least one approved carbon monoxide detector in an
operating condition within fifteen feet (15') of every room used for sleeping
purposes. Alarms can be battery powered, plug in with battery backup, or wired
into the AC power line with a secondary battery backup. The detector can be
combined with smoke detecting devices if the combined unit complies with
specific standards, and the alarm differentiates the hazard. Such carbon
monoxide detectors shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's
recommendation.
      5.   The bed and breakfast establishment owner shall provide such
periodic written reports relating to smoke detector testing and maintenance as
may be required by the fire prevention bureau. Batteries shall be changed once
a year in smoke detectors, and detectors are to be tested quarterly for
functionability.
   C.   Manual Extinguishing Equipment: Manual extinguishing equipment shall be
provided on each floor in accordance with NFPA 10, 2007 edition "Standard For
The Installation Of Portable Fire Extinguishers".
   D.   Guestrooms Above Second Floor Or In Basement:
      1.   All guestrooms located above the second floor or in the basement
must have two (2) exits approved by the local fire department. All vertical
openings to any such floor or basement in which a guestroom is located shall be
enclosed with enclosures continuous from floor to ceiling, which enclosures
shall be by fire barriers such as walls or partition assemblies. Fire barriers
shall have a minimum of one-half (1/2) hour fire resistance rating.
      2.   Passageways used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement and
stairways used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement shall be
enclosed by materials that have a minimum of one-half (1/2) hour fire
resistance rating.
      3.   Self-closing doors approved by the fire department shall be used in
any stairway used for exiting from any occupied floor or basement.
   E.   Workshop Areas: Any workshop or other area determined by the local fire
department to contain equipment or materials constituting a potential fire
hazard shall be enclosed with fire resistant materials.
   F.   Interior Finishes: All interior finishes and floor coverings in the bed
and breakfast establishment shall meet life safety code regulations so as to
restrict the spread of fire. Cellular, foam, plastic and other similar material
shall not be used for interior finishes.
   G.   Trash Containers: All trash containers shall be constructed of a
nonflammable material (i.e., metal, ceramic, etc.). Trash containers in the
kitchen shall have a lid present at all times.
   H.   Cooking Facilities: No cooking facilities shall be permitted in
guestrooms, excluding microwave ovens.
   I.   Heating Devices: Space heaters or other portable heating devices are
prohibited in guestrooms.
   J.   Exit Regulations And Floor Plan:
      1.   All hallways, corridors and stairways used as exits shall be
adequately lighted at all times. Emergency lighting shall meet section 7.9 of
the NFPA 101 life safety code.
      2.   A kitchen exit shall not be considered as an approved fire exit in a
bed and breakfast establishment where breakfast is served.
      3.   All interior and exterior exits shall open from the inside without
the use of a key or special knowledge. All such exits shall be the width of
thirty inches (30") and shall not be blocked or obstructed at any time.
      4.   A floor plan of the bed and breakfast establishment shall be
maintained in each guestroom, which plan shall show the location of each such
guestroom and the exit locations to be used for such guestroom in the event of
fire.
      5.   The operator shall submit floor plan of the bed and breakfast
establishment to the local fire department.
   K.   Combustible, Flammable Materials: All combustibles or flammable liquids
shall be stored in approved metal containers. There shall be no combustible
storage in or under stairways.
   L.   Access Roads: All access roads serving bed and breakfast establishments
shall be of sufficient width and construction to accommodate emergency
vehicles. Local fire departments may designate minimum acceptable width
required for access roads, but in no case shall the width be less than ten feet
(10'). (Ord., 4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-10: FOOD SERVICE INSPECTION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Upon receipt of the completed application and appropriate fee, the
health authority shall make inspection of the bed and breakfast establishment
to determine compliance with the provision of this chapter and compliance with
the Illinois state bed and breakfast act. When the inspections reveal that the
applicable requirements have been met, a license shall be issued. Licenses
shall not be assignable or transferable. Inspection shall be made annually for
license renewal, and as often as necessary during the period of operation to
assure compliance with this chapter is being maintained.
   B.   The license will not be granted until all pertinent health and fire
department written violations are corrected. A bed and breakfast establishment
can remain open for business if a reasonable amount of time is given to correct
all violations. (Ord., 4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-11: SMOKE FREE ENVIRONMENT:
All bed and breakfast establishments are required to be smoke free. Smoking is
prohibited in private homes that are open to the public for business. (Ord., 4-
7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-12: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS:
The health authority shall be permitted to enter any bed and breakfast
establishment within the county for the purpose of making inspection to
determine compliance with this chapter. (Ord., 4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008)
4-7-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a petty offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition thereto, such persons may be enjoined from
continuing such violation. Each day's violation constitutes a separate offense.
The state's attorney of the county may bring such actions in the name of the
county or may bring action for an injunction to restrain such violation or to
enjoin the operation of any such establishment causing such violation. (Ord.,
4-7-2008, eff. 4-7-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Definitions
4-8-2: Application Of Provisions
4-8-3: Location Considerations
4-8-4: Design Considerations
4-8-5: Regulations
4-8-6: Decisions
4-8-7: Small Wireless Facilities
4-8-7-1: Purpose And Scope
4-8-7-2: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
4-8-7-3: Dispute Resolution
4-8-7-4: Indemnification
4-8-7-5: Insurance/Restoration
4-8-7-6: Severability
4-8-7-7: Penalties
4-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
AM BROADCAST STATION: A facility and one or more towers for the purpose of
transmitting communication in the 540 kHz to 170 kHz band for public reception
authorized by the FCC.
ANTENNA: An antenna device by which radio signals are transmitted or received,
or both as well as communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless
services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the County for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
COUNTY BOARD: The County Board of Jo Daviess County.
COUNTY JURISDICTION AREA: Those portions of the County that lie outside the
corporate limits of cities, villages, and incorporated towns that have
municipal zoning ordinances in effect.
COUNTY PERMIT: A written authorization required by the County to perform an
action or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
COUNTY UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the County in public
rights-of-way.
DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): Means a type of wireless telecommunication
facility consisting of a network of spatially separated antenna nodes connected
to a common source via a transport medium that provides wireless service within
a geographic area.
EQUIPMENT HOUSING: A combination of one or more equipment buildings or
enclosures housing equipment that operates in conjunction with the antennas of
a facility, and the equipment itself.
FAA: The Federal Aviation Administration of the United States Department of
Transportation.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
FACILITY: That part of the signal distribution system used or operated by a
telecommunications carrier or AM broadcast station under a license from the FCC
consisting of a combination of improvements and equipment including:
   A.   One or more antennas;
   B.   A supporting structure and the hardware by which antennas are attached;
   C.   Equipment housing; and
   D.   Ancillary equipment such as signal transmission cables and
miscellaneous hardware.
FACILITY LOT: The zoning lot on which a facility is or will be located.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HEIGHT OF A FACILITY: The total height of the facility's supporting structure
and any antennas that will extend above the top of the supporting structure;
however, if the supporting structure's foundation extends more than three feet
(3') above the uppermost ground level along the perimeter of the foundation,
then each full foot in excess of three feet (3') shall be counted as an
additional foot of facility height. The height of a facility's supporting
structure is to be measured from the highest point of the supporting
structure's foundation.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the County
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
HORIZONTAL SEPARATION DISTANCE: The distance measured from the center of the
base of the facility's supporting structure to the point where the ground meets
a vertical wall of a principal residential building.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
LOT LINE SETBACK DISTANCE: The distance measured from the center of the base of
the facility's supporting structure to the nearest point on the common lot line
between the facility lot and the nearest residentially zoned lot. If there is
no common lot line, the measurement shall be made to the nearest point on the
lot line of the nearest residentially zoned lot without deducting the width of
any intervening right-of-way.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT: The jurisdiction area of the County, except for
those portions within a Residential Zoning District.
NONRESIDENTIALLY ZONED LOT: A zoning lot in a nonresidential zoning district.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PRINCIPAL RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: Has its common meaning but shall not include
any building under the same ownership as the land of the facility lot.
"Principal residential building" shall not include any structure that is not
designed for human habitation.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
QUALIFYING STRUCTURE: A supporting structure that is:
   A.   An existing structure if the height of the facility, including the
structure, is not more than fifteen feet (15') higher than the structure just
before the facility is installed; or
   B.   A substantially similar, substantially same location replacement of an
existing structure, if the height of the facility, including the replacement
structure is not more than fifteen feet (15') higher than the height of the
existing structure just before the facility is installed.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT: A zoning district that is designated under the Jo
Daviess County zoning ordinance and is zoned predominantly for residential
uses.
RESIDENTIALLY ZONED LOT: A zoning lot in a Residential Zoning District.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include County-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
SUPPORTING STRUCTURE: A structure, whether an antenna tower or another type of
structure, that supports one or more antennas as part of a facility.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: As defined in the Public Utilities Act as of
January 1, 1997 1 .
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the County.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.,
7-9-2002; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2018-09, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
4-8-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pursuant to 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-12001.1, herein referred
to as the "Act", this chapter shall apply to the "facility", as defined in
section
4-8-1 of this chapter, as a telecommunications carrier or AM broadcast station.
(Ord., 7-9-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not abridge any rights created by
or authority confirmed in the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, PL 104-
104. (Ord., 7-9-2002)
4-8-3: LOCATION CONSIDERATIONS:
In choosing a location for a facility, a telecommunications carrier or AM
broadcast station shall consider the following: (Ord., 7-9-2002; amd. 2009
Code)
   A.   A nonresidentially zoned lot that is not used for residential purposes
is the most desirable location.
   B.   A residentially zoned lot that is not used for residential purposes is
the second most desirable location.
   C.   A residentially zoned lot that is two (2) acres or more in size and is
used for residential purposes is the third most desirable location.
   D.   A residentially zoned lot that is less than two (2) acres in size and
is used for residential purposes is the least desirable location.
   E.   The size of the lot shall be the lot's gross area in square feet
without deduction of any unbuildable or unusable land, any roadway, or any
other easement. (Ord., 7-9-2002)
4-8-4: DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS:
In designing a facility, a telecommunications carrier or AM broadcast station
shall consider the following guidelines: (Ord., 7-9-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
   A.   No building or tower that is part of a facility should encroach onto
any recorded easement prohibiting the encroachment unless the grantees of the
easement have given their approval.
   B.   Lighting should be installed for security and safety purposes only.
Except with respect to lighting required by the FCC or FAA, all lighting should
be shielded so that no glare extends substantially beyond the boundaries of a
facility.
   C.   No facility should encroach onto an existing septic field.
   D.   Any facility located in a special flood hazard area or wetland should
meet the legal requirements for those lands (see title 10, chapter 1 of this
code).
   E.   Existing trees more than three inches (3") in diameter should be
preserved, if reasonably feasible, during construction. If any tree more than
three inches (3") or more in diameter is removed during construction, a tree
three inches (3") or more in diameter of the same or a similar species shall be
planted as a replacement if reasonably feasible. Tree diameter shall be
measured at a point three feet (3') above ground level. (Ord., 7-9-2002)
   F.   If any elevation of a facility faces an existing, adjoining residential
use within a residential zoning district, low maintenance landscaping should be
provided on or near the facility lot to provide at least partial screening of
the facility. The quantity and type of that landscaping should be in accordance
with any county landscaping regulations of general applicability; except, that
subsection E of this section shall control over any tree related regulations
imposing a greater burden.
   G.   Fencing should be installed around a facility. The height and materials
of the fencing should be in accordance with any county fence regulations of
general applicability. (Ord., 7-9-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
   H.   Any building that is part of a facility located adjacent to a
residentially zoned lot should be designed with exterior materials and colors
that are reasonably compatible with the residential character of the area.
(Ord., 7-9-2002)
4-8-5: REGULATIONS:
   A.   The following provisions shall apply to all facilities established in
any county jurisdiction area: 1) after the effective date of the amendatory act
of 1997 with respect to telecommunications carriers; and 2) after the effective
date of the amendatory act of the 94th general assembly with respect to AM
broadcast stations:
      1.   Except as provided in this chapter, no yard or setback regulations
shall apply to or be required for a facility.
      2.   A facility may be located on the same zoning lot as one or more
other structures or uses without violating any ordinance or regulation that
prohibits or limits multiple structures, buildings, or uses on a zoning lot.
      3.   No minimum lot area, width, or depth shall be required for a
facility, and unless the facility is to be manned on a regular, daily basis, no
off street parking spaces shall be required for a facility. If the facility is
to be manned on a regular, daily basis, one off street parking space shall be
provided for each employee regularly at the facility. No loading facilities are
required.
      4.   No portion of a facility's supporting structure or equipment housing
shall be less than fifteen feet (15') from the front lot line of the facility
lot or less than ten feet (10') from any other lot line.
      5.   No bulk regulations or lot coverage, building coverage, or floor
area ratio limitations shall be applied to a facility or to any existing use or
structure coincident with the establishment of a facility. Except as provided
in this chapter, no height limits or restrictions shall apply to a facility.
      6.   The county's review of a building permit application for a facility
shall be completed within thirty (30) days. If a decision of the county board
is required to permit the establishment of a facility, the county's review of
the application shall be simultaneous with the process leading to the county
board's decision.
      7.   The improvements and equipment comprising the facility may be wholly
or partly freestanding or wholly or partly attached to, enclosed in, or
installed in or on a structure or structures. (Ord., 7-9-2002)
   B.   The following provisions shall apply to all facilities established: 1)
after the effective date of the amendatory act of 1997 with respect to
telecommunications carriers; and 2) after the effective date of the amendatory
act of the 94th general assembly with respect to AM broadcast stations in the
county jurisdiction area: (Ord., 7-9-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
      1.   Required Conditions Of Approval: A facility is permitted if its
supporting structure is a qualifying structure or if both of the following
conditions are met:
         a.   The height of the facility shall not exceed two hundred feet
(200'); except, that if a facility is located more than one and one-half (11/2)
miles from the corporate limits of any municipality with a population of twenty
five thousand (25,000), or more the height of the facility shall not exceed
three hundred fifty feet (350'); and
         b.   The horizontal separation distance to the nearest principal
residential building shall not be less than the height of the supporting
structure; except, that if the supporting structure exceeds ninety nine feet
(99') in height, the horizontal separation distance to the nearest principal
residential building shall be at least one hundred feet (100') or eighty
percent (80%) of the height of the supporting structure, whichever is greater.
Compliance with this subsection B1b shall only be evaluated as of the time that
a building permit application for the facility is submitted. If the supporting
structure is not an antenna tower this subsection B1b is satisfied.
      2.   Application And Review:
         a.   Any application for a "facility", as defined in section
4-8-1 of this chapter, shall be made in writing to and in the form as required
by the zoning officer.
         b.   The date of filing such an application shall be the date that a
full and complete application is received by the zoning officer.
         c.   Within thirty (30) days from the date of filing of the
application, the zoning officer shall review said application to determine if
the conditions of subsection B1 of this section are met. If those conditions
are met, the zoning officer shall issue a permit allowing the construction of
the facility in conformance with the application. (Ord., 7-9-2002)
         d.   If the zoning officer finds that the proposed facility does not
meet the criteria of subsection B1 of this section, he shall make written
findings as to the facts that the proposed facility fails to meet those
criteria. (Ord., 7-9-2002; amd. 2009 Code)
         e.   Any application for a "facility", as defined in section
4-8-1 of this chapter, shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the county
board. (Ord., 1-10-2006; amd. 2009 Code)
      3.   Approval Of Other Facilities: Unless a facility is permitted under
subsection B1 of this section, a facility can be established only after the
county board gives its approval following consideration of the provisions of
subsection 4-8-6B of this chapter. (Ord., 7-9-2002)
4-8-6: DECISIONS:
   A.   County board action on an application for a facility shall be in
accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   A public hearing shall be conducted by the zoning board of appeals.
Notice of the hearing shall be published at least fifteen (15) days before the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county.
      2.   The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of
procedures of the zoning board of appeals. The zoning board of appeals shall
consider the matters in subsection B of this section, but no other matters.
      3.   The zoning board of appeals shall make written findings of fact as
to the provisions of subsection B of this section.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the zoning board of appeals shall,
upon a majority vote of the members present, make a recommendation to the
county board as to whether the application should be approved or denied.
      5.   The county board may give its approval to the application after the
hearing by the zoning board of appeals, but only by the favorable vote of a
majority of the members present at a meeting held no later than seventy five
(75) days after the submission of a complete application by the
telecommunications carrier. If the county board fails to act on the application
within seventy five (75) days after its submission, the application shall be
deemed to have been approved.
   B.   For purposes of subsection 4-8-5B3 of this chapter and subsection A2 of
this section, the following siting considerations, but no other matter, shall
be considered by the Zoning Board of Appeals and County Board:
      1.   The criteria in section
4-8-3 of this chapter.
      2.   Whether a substantial adverse effect on public safety will result
from some aspect of the facility's design or proposed construction, but only if
that aspect of design or construction is modifiable by the applicant.
      3.   The benefits to be derived by the users of the services to be
provided or enhanced by the facility and whether public safety and emergency
response capabilities would benefit by the establishment of the facility.
      4.   The existing uses on adjacent and nearby properties.
      5.   The extent to which the design of the proposed facility reflects
compliance with section
4-8-4 of this chapter. (Ord., 7-9-2002)
4-8-7: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
4-8-7-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section
4-8-7 is to establish regulations, standards and procedures for the siting and
collocation of small wireless facilities on rights-of-way within the County's
jurisdiction, or outside the rights-of- way on property zoned by the County
exclusively for commercial or industrial use, in a manner that is consistent
with the Act.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This section
4-8-7 supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto
that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
section
4-8-7, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this section
4-8-7 to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws or
regulations. (Ord. 2018-09, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
4-8-7-2: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights- of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
County to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be received
and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the County, together with the County's application for
a construction permit - telecommunications, as a condition of any permit
application to collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or
wireless support structure:
         a.   Integrity And Analysis: Site specific structural integrity and,
for a County utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural
engineer, as that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering
Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   Location: The location where each proposed small wireless
facility or utility pole would be installed and photographs (taken within 6
months) of the location and its immediate surroundings depicting the utility
poles or structures on which each proposed small wireless facility would be
mounted or location where utility poles or structures would be installed. This
should include a depiction of the completed facility;
         c.   Specifications And Drawings: Specifications and drawings prepared
by a structural engineer, as that term is defined in section 4 of the
Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989, for each proposed small wireless
facility covered by the application as it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   Equipment: The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas
and all other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   Schedule: A proposed schedule for the installation and completion
of each small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Requirements And Conditions: Certification that the collocation
complies with the collocation requirements and conditions contained herein, to
the best of the applicant's knowledge.
         g.   Existing Pole Owned By An Entity: In the event that the proposed
small wireless facility is to be attached to an existing pole owned by an
entity other than the County, the wireless provider shall provide legally
competent evidence of the consent of the owner of such pole to the proposed
collocation.
         h.   Service Connections: Other related improvements including, but
not limited to, buried electrical service, and buried fiber optic or cable
connections that are needed to service the wireless telecommunication facility
and are installed within County rights-of-way beyond the physical pole or
structure require additional and separate permits. These types of connections
shall be applied for concurrently by the respective utility provider supplying
that service or connection.
         i.   Restoration: Upon completion of the work authorized by permit
under this section
4-8-7, all disturbed or damaged areas of the right-of-way shall be restored to
their original condition or better. Said restoration shall include, but is not
limited to, repairs to shoulders, ditches, parkways, curbs, and pavements and/
or any special landscaping, hardscaping, or enhanced areas that existed in the
rights-of- way prior to the commencement of the permitted work. The County
shall bear no responsibility for costs associated with such restoration.
      2.   Application Process: The County shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   Priority: The first completed application shall have priority
over applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Existing Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or
replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the
County fails to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after
the submission of a completed application.
         However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the County in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
seventy five (75) days after the submission of a completed application.
         The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day
after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the County. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the County's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this subsection.
         c.   New Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the County fails
to approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after
the submission of a completed application.
         However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the County in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
         The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day
after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the County. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the County's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this subsection.
         d.   Denial: The County shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this section
4-8-7.
         If the County determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
         The County shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific Code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
County denies an application.
         The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the County and
resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of
denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee.
The County shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30)
days after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved.
Failure to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial
shall require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees,
and recommencement of the County's review period.
         The applicant must notify the County in writing of its intention to
proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
         Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a County utility
pole, the County and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the County for the initial collocation on a County
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a County utility pole, the County and the
applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the County shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the County must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the County fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the County's permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the County.
      Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the County sends the notice
of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
County; or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the County shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the County may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The County may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the County makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable County
Codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this section
4-8-7.
      If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable County Code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the County by personal
delivery at the County's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The County may reserve space on
County utility poles for future public safety uses, for the County's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the County reasonably
determines that the County utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
section
4-8-7. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations. Identification signage shall be
affixed onto each wireless telecommunication facility identifying the wireless
services provider, contact phone number and unique identifier. Installation of
other signs on a wireless telecommunication facility shall be prohibited,
unless they are for warning labels or otherwise are required by law or
regulations. The wireless telecommunication facility shall be grounded in
accordance with the requirements of the most current edition of the National
Electrical Code currently in effect. The applicant shall obtain necessary
inspections of grounding installations required by local agencies.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
      A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type
and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency's communications equipment.
      4.   Frequency Interference: In the event that an interference with the
frequencies used by the County's public safety or roadway facility
communications is detected, at any time, the wireless services provider is
required to, at its own expense, either: a) reconfigure or filter its antenna
system's transmissions or frequency; or b) cease transmitting/receiving from
said unit; or c) remove the entirety of the installation immediately upon
notification of said interference. In the event a relocation is required, the
wireless services provider will be required to apply for a new wireless
telecommunication facilities permit under the terms of this section
4-8-7. The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities on
County utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission
system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric
supply zone of the pole.
      However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility
may be located in the communications space on the County utility pole and on
the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
      For purposes of this subsection, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Public Safety: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety. The wireless telecommunication facility shall include an electrical
service disconnect switch to allow County personnel and agents to shut off
power in the event of an incident or other abnormal conditions. The switch
shall be located a minimum of ten feet (10') from the wireless
telecommunication facility and accessible to County and emergency response
personnel without restriction.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a County ordinance, written policy adopted by the County, a comprehensive
plan or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the
rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district. In
the event that a wireless telecommunication facility is proposed to be
installed at grade, landscape screening shall be installed to minimize the
visibility of the wireless telecommunication facility, at the discretion of the
County. No guy or other support wires shall be used in connection with a
wireless telecommunication facility unless the facility is proposed to be
attached to an existing structure that incorporated guy wires prior to the date
that an applicant has applied for a permit.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions subsection, a wireless provider shall not be
required to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole,
or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna
systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for
the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility
pole, the County may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on
an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one
hundred feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall
accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms
and conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose
technical limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
      If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the County, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
      New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which
small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the County, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the County, provided the County may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance or administrative variance in conformance with
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in the zoning ordinance of Jo
Daviess County.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the County and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
         a.   The base of the equipment, antenna or appurtenances of a wireless
telecommunication facility collocated on a structure shall be located no lower
than ten feet (10') above grade and at a location and height that meets the
requirements of the American Disabilities Act (ADA) and the clearances set
forth in the Public Rights-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG) or the
subsequent regulations on accessibility in public rights-of-way. Collocation on
County-owned infrastructure shall also not interfere with or obscure existing
traffic control devices including signal heads and signage. For traffic signals
or street lights, no elements of a wireless telecommunication facility shall be
mounted onto the signal mast arm or lighting luminaire arm.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right- of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles. Additionally, wires and cables connecting the
antenna to the remainder of the facility shall be installed in accordance with
the version of the National Electric Code and National Electrical Safety Code
in effect at the time of application. In no event shall wiring and cabling
serving the facility interfere with any wiring or cabling installed by a cable
television or video service operator, electric utility or telephone utility.
The applicant shall be required to provide written sign-off by each owner/
operator that a proposed collocation will not adversely impact their existing
facilities. Said sign-offs must be provided at the time of application
submittal. The applicant shall obtain necessary inspections of power service
cabling required by local agencies.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the County and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a County utility pole or by
the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the
wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after the
issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the County grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The County shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the County at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the County to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this section
4-8-7 authorizes a person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the County or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this section
4-8-7 do not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility's
wireless facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the
Public Utilities Act.
      For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning
given to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this section
4-8-7 shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to
obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this section
4-8-7.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the County and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
County utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the County's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the County before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this section
4-8-7.
   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the County on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the County
makes available under this section for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the County
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the County's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the County before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the County an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a County
utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the
wireless provider's use of space on the County utility pole.
If the County has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs, the
fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after the
first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to
collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the County notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment.
   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the County to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the County may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for County utility poles
or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by other
law for removal and cost recovery.
   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the County if it sells
or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the County.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 2018-09, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
4-8-7-3: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Jo Daviess County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on County utility poles within the right-of-way, the County
shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of
no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per County utility pole,
with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute. (Ord. 2018-
09, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
4-8-7-4: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the County harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the County
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this section
4-8-7 and the Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold
harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the
sole negligence of the County or its employees or agents. A wireless provider
shall further waive any claims that they may have against the County with
respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based
on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018-09, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
4-8-7-5: INSURANCE/RESTORATION:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the County improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits
consistent with its requirements of other users of County improvements or
rights- of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the County as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the County in a commercial general liability policy prior to
the collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the County. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the County
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage limits required by the County.
In addition, upon completion of the work authorized by permit under this
section
4-8-7, all disturbed or damaged areas of the right-of-way shall be restored to
their original condition or better. Said restoration shall include, but is not
limited to, repairs to shoulders, ditches, parkways, curbs, and pavements and/
or any special landscaping, hardscaping, or enhanced areas that existed in the
rights-of- way prior to the commencement of the permitted work. The County
shall bear no responsibility for costs associated with such restoration. (Ord.
2018-09, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
4-8-7-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this section
4-8-7 or application thereof to any person or circumstances is ruled
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this section
4-8-7 that can be given effect without the invalid application or provision,
and each invalid provision or invalid application of this section
4-8-7 is severable. (Ord. 2018-09, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
4-8-7-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this section
4-8-7 or fails to comply with any requirements thereof, or who constructs,
alters, repairs, disconnects, removes any facility within the County highway
rights-of-way in violation of an approved plan or directive of the County
Engineer or his designee, or fails to apply for or obtain a permit issued under
the provisions of this section
4-8-7 shall be guilty of an offense punishable by a fine equal to the greater
of:
   A.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00); or
   B.   Twice the assessed application fees under this section
4-8-7; or
   C.   An amount sufficient to correct any deficiencies or maintain the proper
movement and safety of the County highway users.
Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense. The
imposition of any fine shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the
requirements of this section
4-8-7. (Ord. 2018-09, 10-9-2018, eff. 10-9-2018)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY SERVICES
ARTICLE A. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
5-1A-1: Definitions
5-1A-2: Limitations
5-1A-3: Emergency Management Agency (EMA)
5-1A-3-1: Established; Jurisdiction
5-1A-3-2: Director/Coordinator
5-1A-3-3: Functions
5-1A-3-4: Purchases And Expenditures
5-1A-3-5: Authority To Accept Services, Gifts, Grants Or Loans
5-1A-3-6: Oath Of Office
5-1A-3-7: Office
5-1A-3-8: Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes
5-1A-4: Local Disaster Emergencies
5-1A-5: Testing Of Warning Devices
5-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
COORDINATOR: The function created in accordance with the provisions of this
article to be performed by county and political subdivisions to alleviate the
effects of disasters.
DISASTER: An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or manmade cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, oil
spills, other water contamination, blight, drought, infestation, explosion,
riot, accident, or hostile military or paramilitary action. "Disaster"
includes, but is not limited to, all occurrences and threats thereof which are
contemplated by the concept of "emergency management operations".
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: The preparation for and the carrying out of such
functions, other than the functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury and damage resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood,
earthquake, accident or manmade or natural causes. These functions include,
without limitation, firefighting services, police services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, air raid warning services, communications,
radiological, chemical or special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from
stricken areas, emergency assigned functions of plant protection, temporary
restoration of public utility services and other functions related to civilian
protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental to the
preparation for and for carrying out of the foregoing functions.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: Any county, city, village, or incorporated town.
UNITED STATES: The several states, and District of Columbia, and possessions
thereof. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-2: LIMITATIONS:
Nothing in this article shall be construed to:
   A.   Interfere with the course or conduct of a private labor dispute;
except, that actions otherwise authorized by this article or other law may be
taken when necessary to forestall or mitigate imminent or existing danger to
public health or safety.
   B.   Interfere with the dissemination of news or comment of public affairs;
but any communication facility or organization (including, but not limited to,
radio and television stations, wire services, and newspapers) may be requested
to transmit or print public service messages furnishing information or
instructions in connection with a disaster emergency.
   C.   Alter the jurisdiction or responsibilities of police forces,
firefighting, units of the armed forces of the United States, or any personnel
thereof, when on active duty; but the county emergency preparedness plan shall
place reliance upon such force available for performance of functions related
to disaster emergencies.
   D.   Limit, modify, or abridge the authority of the county board chairperson
or the county board vested in them under the constitution, statutes, or common
law of the state or county, independent of or in conjunction with any
provisions of this code. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-3: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (EMA):
5-1A-3-1: ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION:
   A.   There is hereby created an emergency management agency to prevent,
minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused
by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or manmade
disaster, in accordance with the emergency management act of 1992 1 . This
agency will supersede the county emergency services and disaster agency
heretofore authorized, and shall be known as the "Jo Daviess County emergency
management agency" (hereafter EMA).
   B.   The county EMA shall consist of the director, coordinator, and other
such technical, clerical, and other administrative personnel as may be selected
by the director and coordinator, with the approval of the county board, and may
make such expenditures within their appropriation therefor as may be necessary
to carry out the purpose of this article.
   C.   The county emergency management agency shall have jurisdiction over and
serve the entire county and all property located within the boundary of the
county. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
5-1A-3-2: DIRECTOR/COORDINATOR:
   A.   Appointment; Term: The director and the coordinator of the county
emergency management agency shall be appointed by the county board chair, with
the concurrence of the county board, and shall serve until removed by same.
   B.   Powers And Duties Of Coordinator: The coordinator shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, training and operation of
the county emergency management agency as prescribed in the county emergency
preparedness plan subject to direction and control of the county board
chairperson and the county board. He shall coordinate the activities of all
organizations for emergency services and disaster operations within the area
served by the county emergency management agency and shall maintain liaison and
cooperate with the Illinois emergency management agency.
   C.   Absence, Inability Of Coordinator To Serve: In the event of the
absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve as coordinator, the county
board chairperson, or any other person designated by the coordinator, shall be
and act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as provided by this
article. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-3-3: FUNCTIONS:
The EMA shall:
   A.   Prepare and keep current an emergency disaster plan for the county
emergency management agency.
   B.   Interrelate with business, labor, industry, agriculture, civic and
volunteer organizations and community leaders in the development of such plans.
   C.   Prepare and distribute to all appropriate officials in written form a
clear and complete statement of the responsibilities of all local departments
and offices and the chain of command.
   D.   Cooperate with other political subdivisions within the county, all
other surrounding counties, and Illinois emergency management agency.
   E.   Establish, train and maintain such rescue organizations as may be
deemed proper by the county board.
   F.   Establish, train and maintain such communications unit(s) as may be
deemed proper by the county board.
   G.   Establish, train and maintain such volunteer EMA units as may be deemed
proper by the coordinator or the county board.
   H.   Prepare, for issuance by the county board chairperson or the county
board, resolutions, proclamations, and regulations as necessary or appropriate
in coping with any disaster.
   I.   Cooperate with any public or private agency, political subdivisions, or
entity in achieving any purpose of this article and in implementing programs
for disaster prevention, preparation, response and recovery.
   J.   Do all other things necessary incidental or appropriate for the
implementation of this article. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-3-4: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
The county board may, on the recommendation of the coordinator, authorize any
purchases or contacts necessary to place the county in a position to
effectively combat any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or
other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety, protect
property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such
disaster, or from manmade or natural disaster. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-3-5: AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SERVICES, GIFTS, GRANTS OR LOANS:
Whenever the federal, state or county governments or any agency or office
thereof, or whenever any person, firm or corporation shall offer to the county
services, equipment, supplies, materials or funds by way of gift or grant for
the purposes of emergency management agency operations, the county, acting
through the county board, may authorize any county officer to receive such
services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds on behalf of the county.
(Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-3-6: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the county EMA organization
shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe the following oath, which
shall be filed with the coordinator:
In accordance with the Illinois Emergency Management Agency Act 20 ILCS 3305/
1 et seq. January 1, 2002, I,                    , do solemnly swear (or
affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to
the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and territory, institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and
private, against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation
freely, without mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well
and faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the                      I will
not advocate not become a member of any political organization that advocates
the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force
or violence.
(Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-3-7: OFFICE:
The chairperson of the county board is authorized to designate space in a
county building, or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the county board for
the county EMA as its office. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-3-8: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The county board may make an appropriation for EMA purposes in a manner
provided by law, and may levy, for EMA purposes only, a tax not to exceed five
cents ($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed value of all
taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the IEMA act of
2002; however, that amount collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed
twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-4: LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Declaration Of Emergency: A local disaster emergency may be declared
only by the mayor or village board president in the political subdivisions and
the county chairperson for Jo Daviess County.
   B.   Duration: A local disaster emergency shall not be continued or renewed
for a period in excess of seven (7) days except by or with the consent of the
full board of a political subdivision or full county board for unincorporated
areas of the county.
   C.   Notice Requirements: Any order or proclamation declaring or continuing
a local disaster emergency shall be given prompt and general publicity and
shall be filed with the village clerk for a political subdivision, and for Jo
Daviess County, it must be filed with the county clerk.
   D.   Purpose: The effects of a local disaster emergency are to activate the
response and recovery aspects of the county emergency preparedness plan and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder. (Ord., 5-9-2006)
5-1A-5: TESTING OF WARNING DEVICES:
The testing of disaster warning devices including outdoor warning sirens shall
be held only on the first Tuesday of each month at ten o'clock (10:00) A.M.
(Ord., 5-9-2006)
ARTICLE B. EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
SECTION:
5-1B-1: Policy
5-1B-2: Service Provided
5-1B-3: Jurisdiction; Financing
5-1B-1: POLICY:
In order to preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and general
welfare, it is deemed necessary to provide adequate and continuing emergency
medical service to each citizen of the county, and:
   A.   The county board is desirous of emergency medical service insofar as it
is economically feasible; and
   B.   It appears that adequate and continuing emergency medical services do
not exist at the present time; and (1977 Code ch. 5, § 5-1)
   C.   The county board is empowered to provide such service in accordance
with the provisions of 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1053. (1977 Code ch. 5
§ 5-1; amd. 2009 Code)
5-1B-2: SERVICE PROVIDED:
Countywide emergency medical service shall be made available to all citizens of
the county insofar as it is economically feasible. (1977 Code ch. 5 § 5-1)
5-1B-3: JURISDICTION; FINANCING:
Countywide emergency medical service shall be provided to or from points within
or without the county, and may be provided by the county or by contract with
private persons, hospitals, corporations or other governmental units, and
payment shall be made for the expenses incurred in providing for or contracting
for such services, and steps shall be taken to adopt a tax levy for such
expense as provided by 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1028. (1977 Code ch. 5
§ 5-2; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE C. LIGHTS ON CORONER'S VEHICLE
SECTION:
5-1C-1: Red Lights Permitted
5-1C-2: Use Restricted
5-1C-3: Copy Of Provisions
5-1C-1: RED LIGHTS PERMITTED:
The coroner or his assistants may use red oscillating, rotating or flashing
lights on their vehicles when responding to an emergency in their official
capacity. (1977 Code ch. 33 § 1)
5-1C-2: USE RESTRICTED:
Such lights shall not be lighted except when responding to any emergency. (1977
Code ch. 33 § 2)
5-1C-3: COPY OF PROVISIONS:
Each person authorized to use such lights shall carry a copy of the ordinance
codified herein in the vehicle at all times said lights are in use. (1977 Code
ch. 33 § 3)
CHAPTER 2
FOOD AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Purpose
5-2-2: State Regulations Adopted
5-2-3: Definitions
5-2-4: License And Compliance Required
5-2-5: Application For License
5-2-6: License, Plan Review And Change Of Ownership Fees
5-2-7: Nontransferability Of License; Change Of Location
5-2-8: Conditional Licenses
5-2-9: Building Construction, Remodeling Or Conversion
5-2-10: Inspection Of Premises; Issuance And Posting Of License; Term
5-2-11: Annual Inspections
5-2-12: Correction Of Violations
5-2-13: Examination And Condemnation Of Food
5-2-14: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
5-2-15: Service Of Notice Of Suspension Or Revocation Of License
5-2-16: Hearings
5-2-17: Certified Manager Required
5-2-18: Infected Employees
5-2-19: Temporary Food Establishments, Farmers' Market, Cottage Food Operation
5-2-20: Drinking Water And Waste Disposal
5-2-21: Smoke Free Environment
5-2-22: Violations; Penalties
5-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates the inspection of food service establishments and retail
food stores; the issuance, suspension and revocation of licenses to operate
food service establishments and retail food stores; the prohibition of the sale
of unsound or mislabeled food or drink in the County. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018,
eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
This chapter is adopted by reference and shall be interpreted and enforced in
accordance with the provisions set forth in the current, unabridged form of the
State of Illinois, Department of Public Health Food Service Sanitation Code;
and Illinois Compiled Statutes Smoke Free Illinois Act, 410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 82/1 et seq., and any subsequent amendments or revisions thereto,
three (3) certified copies of which shall be on-file in the Office of the
County Clerk.
   A.   The following State Statutes are referenced in this chapter:
      1.   Bed and Breakfast Act 1 .
      2.   Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act 2 .
      3.   Freedom of Information Act 3 .
      4.   Good Samaritan Food Donor Act 4
   B.   The following State Administrative Rules are referenced in this
chapter:
      1.   Certified Local Health Department Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 600).
      2.   Control of Communicable Diseases Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 690).
      3.   Local Health Protection Grant Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 615).
   C.   The following materials are incorporated in this chapter:
      1.   The Food Code 2017, chapters 1 through 7 (except the terms "food
employee" and "food establishment" in sections 1-201.10), U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Food and Drug Administration,
College Park MD 20740, publication number IFS17 available at https://
www.fda.gov/downloads/Food/GuidanceRegulation/Retail Food Protection/FoodCode/
UCM595140.pdf.
      2.   Conference for Food Protection - "Standards for Accreditation of
Food Protection Manager Certification Programs" (2016), available at http://
www.foodprotect.org.
   D.   All incorporations by reference of Federal regulations and the
standards of nationally recognized organizations refer to the regulations and
standards on the date specified and do not include any amendments or editions
subsequent to the date specified. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 820.
2 2. 410 ILCS 625.
3 3. 5 ILCS 140.
4 4. 745 ILCS 50.
5-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter. All other definitions shall be as contained in the Illinois
Department of Public Health Food Service Sanitation Code.
BUSINESS DAYS: Regularly scheduled days that the Health Department is open.
CATEGORY I FACILITY: Food establishment that presents a high relative risk of
causing foodborne illness, based on the large number of food handling
operations typically implicated in foodborne outbreaks and/or the type of
population served by the facility. The standards for regulation of a category I
facility shall be those prescribed by the Local Health Protection Grant Code
(77 Ill. Adm. Code 615). Category I facilities include those where the
following operations occur:
   A.   Time/temperature control for safety foods are cooled, as part of the
food handling operation at the facility;
   B.   Time/temperature control for safety foods are prepared hot or cold and
held hot or cold for more than twelve (12) hours before serving;
   C.   Time/temperature control for safety foods cooked and cooled must be
reheated;
   D.   Complex preparation of foods or extensive handling of raw ingredients
with hand contact for ready-to-eat foods occurs as part of the food handling
operations at the facility;
   E.   Vacuum packaging, other forms of reduced oxygen packaging, or other
special processes that require an HACCP plan; or
   F.   Immunocompromised individuals, such as the elderly, young children
under age four (4) and pregnant women, are served in a facility in which these
individuals compose the majority of the consuming population.
CATEGORY II FACILITY: Food establishment that presents a medium relative risk
of causing foodborne illness, based upon few food handling operations typically
implicated in food-borne illness outbreaks. The standards for regulation of a
category II facility shall be those prescribed by the Local Health Protection
Grant Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 615). Category II facilities include those where
the following operations occur:
   A.   Hot or cold foods are held at required temperatures for no more than
twelve (12) hours and are restricted to same-day services;
   B.   Foods are prepared from raw ingredients, using only minimal assembly;
and
   C.   Foods that require complex preparation (whether canned, frozen or fresh
prepared) are obtained from approved food processing plants, high-risk food
service establishments or retail food stores.
CATEGORY III FACILITY: Food establishment that presents a low relative risk of
causing foodborne illness, based upon few or no food handling operations
typically implicated in foodborne illness outbreaks. The standards for
regulation of a category III facility shall be those prescribed by the Local
Health Protection Grant Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 615). Category III facilities
include those where the following operations occur:
   A.   Only time/temperature control for safety foods commercially pre-
packaged in an approved processing plant are available or served at the
facility;
   B.   Only limited preparation of non- time/temperature control for safety
foods and beverages, such as snack foods and carbonated beverages, occurs at
the facility; or
   C.   Only beverages (alcoholic and non-alcoholic) are served at the
facility.
COMMISSARY: A licensed food establishment in which food, containers, or
supplies are received, handled, prepared, packaged, washed, and/or stored.
CORE ITEM: An item that usually relates to general sanitation, operational
controls, facilities or structures, equipment design or general maintenance.
COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION: An operation conducted by a person who produces or
packages food or drink, other than foods and drinks listed as prohibited, in a
kitchen located in that person's primary domestic residence or another
appropriately designed and equipped kitchen on a farm for direct sale by the
owner, a family member, or employee in compliance with section 4 of the Food
Handling Regulation Enforcement Act.
EVENT COORDINATOR: A person or organization responsible for organizing and
planning an event at which more than one temporary food establishment or mobile
food establishment operates.
EXCLUDE: To prevent a person from working as an employee in a food
establishment or entering a food establishment as an employee.
FARMER: An individual who is a resident of Illinois and owns or leases land in
Illinois that is used as a farm, as that term is defined in Section 1-60 of the
Property Tax Code, or that individual's employee.
FARMERS' MARKET: A common facility or area where the primary purpose is for
farmers to gather to sell a variety of fresh fruits and vegetables and other
locally produced farm and food products directly to consumers.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: Any restaurant; coffee shop; cafeteria; short order cafe;
luncheonette; hotel/motel breakfast other than a continental breakfast; grill;
tearoom; sandwich shop; soda fountain; food store; tavern; bar; cocktail
lounge; nightclub; industrial feeding establishment; private, public or
nonprofit organization or institution routinely serving food; catering kitchen;
commissary or similar place in which food or drink is prepared for sale or for
service on the premises or elsewhere; and any other eating or drinking
establishment or operation where food is served or provided for human
consumption. This definition also includes retail grocery stores, meat markets,
poultry markets, fish markets, confectioneries, nut stores, retail bakeries, or
any other establishment, whether fixed and/or mobile, where food, intended for
human consumption off the premises, is prepared, handled, transported, sold or
offered for sale at retail. This inclusion applies regardless of whether there
is a charge for the food.
IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD: A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury based on:
   A.   The number of potential injuries, and
   B.   The nature, severity, and duration of the anticipated injury.
LICENSE YEAR: The license year is December 1 through November 30 to correspond
to Jo Daviess County's fiscal year.
PERSON IN CHARGE: The license holder or person designated by the license holder
who is responsible for operation of a food establishment at a given time.
PRIORITY FOUNDATION ITEM: A provision whose application supports, facilitates
or enables one or more priority items.
PRIORITY ITEM: A provision whose application contributes directly to the
elimination, prevention or reduction to an acceptable level, hazards associated
with foodborne illness or injury and there is no other provision that more
directly controls the hazard.
REGULATORY AUTHORITY: The Jo Daviess County Health Department.
REPEAT VIOLATION: A violation noted on the previous inspection report that is
observed again on the next routine inspection on the same piece of equipment,
same area of the facility, or same practice.
RESTRICT: To limit the activities of a food employee so that there is no risk
of transmitting a disease that is transmissible through food and the food
employee does not work with exposed food, clean equipment, utensils, linens, or
unwrapped single-service or single use articles.
REVOCATION: Put an end to the validity or operation.
SEASONAL FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: Any food establishment which prepares or serves
food more than fourteen (14) consecutive days but less than one hundred eighty
(180) consecutive days in any one license year.
SUSPENSION: The temporary cease in operation.
TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: A food establishment operating at a fixed
location for a period of not more than fourteen (14) consecutive days in
conjunction with a single event or celebration.
TIME/TEMPERATURE CONTROL FOR SAFETY FOOD: A food that requires time/temperature
control for safety to limit pathogenic microorganisms. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-
2018, eff. 12-1-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 10-11-2022; Ord. O2023-8, 6-13-2023;
Ord. O2024-3, 5-14-2024)
5-2-4: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a food establishment which does not have a valid
license issued by the regulatory authority for said premises. Only a person who
complies with the requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to receive or
retain such a license. A food establishment with a valid county license is
allowed to sell products that are prepared and prepackaged in their
establishment at a market or festival approved by the health department with no
additional license required. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018; Ord.
O2024-3, 5-14-2024)
5-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any person desiring to operate a food establishment or renew an expired
license shall make written application for a license on forms provided by the
regulatory authority. Such application shall include the name and address of
each applicant, the location and type of the proposed food establishment, and
the signature of each applicant. A completed food establishment plan review
packet must be filled out for those food establishments that the regulatory
authority deems necessary. Any mobile food establishment application must
include proof of access to a commissary and a list of all known events and
locations at which the operator will be preparing and serving food.
   B.   Every food establishment shall be assigned a risk classification based
on an assessment of the relative potential risks of creating a foodborne
illness. The classification will result in the establishment being placed into
a license category as it relates to food safety. Criteria in the State of
Illinois Food Service Sanitation Code 77 Ill. Adm. Code 750 shall be used to
determine the risk classification. The risk classification will be verified
annually. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-6: LICENSE, PLAN REVIEW AND CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP FEES:
   A.   License Fees Required: A license fee in the amount set by the Jo
Daviess County Board of Health and approved by resolution of the Jo Daviess
County Board must be submitted along with the completed application form and
accompanying paperwork.
   B.   Proration Of Fees: When application is made and license is issued
during the first six (6) months of the fiscal year, the license fee shall not
be prorated. When application is made and a license is issued during the last
six (6) months of the fiscal year, the license fee shall be one-half (1/2) of
the fee. The benefit granted by this applies to the initial annual category I,
category II, or category III license only. This benefit does not include
applications for seasonal or temporary licenses.
   C.   Plan Review: When a plan review is deemed necessary, a plan review fee,
as set by the Jo Daviess County Board of Health and approved by resolution of
the Jo Daviess County Board, is required to be submitted along with plans. This
fee must be paid in full before the preoperational inspection will be
performed.
   D.   Change Of Ownership: If a new license is required because of a change
of ownership, and no changes are being made to the menu, structure, or
equipment of the food establishment, a change of ownership fee is required to
be submitted, in addition to the applicable license fee, with a completed
application form provided by the regulatory authority before a pre-operational
inspection will be performed and new license issued. No plan review fee is
required when a change of ownership fee is submitted. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018,
eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-7: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Licenses are non-transferable. Change of ownership or location shall require
issuance of a new license. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-8: CONDITIONAL LICENSES:
If the regulatory authority finds that the structural facilities and/or
equipment of any food establishment for which a license is sought are not in
substantial compliance with this chapter but that such food establishment may
operate without undue prejudice to public health, a conditional license may be
issued setting forth the conditions on which the license is issued, and shall
set forth the time, not to exceed three (3) years, within which the applicant
must make any changes or corrections necessary in order for such food
establishment to comply fully with this chapter. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff.
12-1-2018)
5-2-9: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, REMODELING OR CONVERSION:
Whenever a food establishment is constructed or extensively remodeled or an
existing structure is converted to use as a food establishment, properly
prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling, or
conversion shall be submitted to the regulatory authority for review and
approval before construction, remodeling or conversion is begun. The plans and
specifications shall indicate the proposed layout, arrangement, mechanical
plans, and construction materials of work areas, and the type and model of
proposed fixed equipment and facilities. The regulatory authority shall approve
the plans and specifications if they meet the requirements of this chapter. No
food establishment shall be constructed, extensively remodeled, or converted
except in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the regulatory
authority. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-10: INSPECTION OF PREMISES; ISSUANCE AND POSTING OF LICENSE; TERM:
   A.   Issuance Of Permit; Posting And Term: The regulatory authority shall
issue a license to the applicant if the inspection reveals that the proposed
food establishment complies with the requirements of this chapter. The valid
license shall be prominently displayed on the premises of the approved food
establishment. The license is valid for the license year or remnant thereof
from the date of issuance.
   B.   Pre-Opening Inspection: Whenever plans and specifications are required
to be submitted to the regulatory authority, or a new license is required
because of change of ownership, the regulatory authority shall inspect the food
establishment prior to the start of operations to determine compliance with the
approved plans and specifications and with the requirements of this chapter. If
applicable, a final plumbing inspection approval shall be submitted prior to
final approval. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-11: ANNUAL INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection Frequency:
      1.   Food establishments shall be inspected at least as often as the
following schedule:
         a.   Category I facilities shall receive three (3) inspections per
year or two (2) inspections per year if a certified food protection manager is
present at all times that the facility is in operation.
         b.   Category II facilities shall receive one inspection per year.
         c.   Category III facilities shall receive one inspection every two
(2) years.
      2.   Additional inspections shall be performed as often as necessary for
the enforcement of this chapter. Regular inspections shall be a minimum of
ninety (90) days apart.
   B.   Entry Powers: Representatives of the regulatory authority, after proper
identification, shall be permitted to enter any food establishment at any
reasonable time for the purpose of completing inspections to determine
compliance with this chapter. The representatives shall be permitted to examine
the records of the establishment to obtain information pertaining to food and
supplies purchased, received, or used, or to persons employed.
   C.   Report Of Inspections: Whenever an inspection of a food establishment
is made, the findings shall be recorded on the inspection report forms approved
by the Illinois Department of Public Health. The inspection report forms shall
summarize compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Inspection
observations and corrective actions, including time frames within which any
violations cited shall be corrected, shall be reported by item number. A copy
of the completed inspection report form shall be furnished to the person in
charge of the food establishment at the conclusion of the inspection in written
or electronic form. The completed inspection report form is a public document
that shall be made available for public disclosure to any person who requests
it according to law. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-12: CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The completed inspection report form shall specify a reasonable period
of time for the correction of the violations found, and correction of the
violations shall be accomplished within the period specified, in accordance
with the following provisions:
      1.   Any situation in which the regulatory authority declares an imminent
health hazard, the food establishment shall immediately cease food service
operations. Operations shall not be resumed until authorized by the regulatory
authority.
      2.   All priority and priority foundation items shall be corrected at the
time of inspection. If no immediate correction is possible because of the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the regulatory authority may agree
to or specify a longer time frame, not to exceed seventy two (72) hours for
priority items and ten (10) calendar days for priority foundation items or
HACCP plan deviations.
         a.   After observing correction of a violation of a priority or
priority foundation item or HACCP plan deviation at the time of the inspection,
the violation and information about the corrective action shall be entered on
the inspection report.
         b.   After receiving notification that a violation of a priority or
priority foundation item or HACCP plan deviation has been corrected, or at the
end of the specified period of time, the regulatory authority shall verify
correction of the violation and document the information on an inspection
report. If a follow-up inspection is necessary to verify correction of a
violation, a reinspection fee, in the amount set by the Jo Daviess County Board
of Health and approved by resolution of the Jo Daviess County Board, shall be
assessed.
      3.   All core items shall be corrected as soon as possible, but no later
than the next routine inspection. The regulatory authority may approve a
compliance schedule that extends beyond the next routine inspection if a
written schedule of compliance is submitted and no health hazard exists or will
result from allowing an extended schedule for compliance.
      4.   If a food establishment has a repeat foodborne illness risk factor
violation noted on three (3) consecutive inspections, a hearing notice will be
served in accordance with section
5-2-15 of this chapter.
      5.   If a food establishment has the same good retail practices violation
that can be marked in conjunction with a foodborne illness risk factor or may
contribute to a foodborne illness risk factor noted on three (3) consecutive
inspections, a hearing notice will be served in accordance with section
5-2-15 of this chapter.
      6.   If a food establishment has more than six (6) repeat violations
noted per inspection for three (3) consecutive inspections, a hearing notice
will be served in accordance with section
5-2-15 of this chapter.
   B.   Failure to comply with any time limits for correction may result in
license suspension.
   C.   Whenever a food establishment is required under the provisions of this
section to cease operation, it shall not resume operations until it is shown on
reinspection that conditions for the order to cease operation no longer exist.
   D.   If a food establishment has continued non-conformance with this chapter
or has numerous and valid complaint investigations and the regulatory authority
deems necessary, the risk classification of the food establishment can be
changed at any time. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-13: EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD:
Food may be examined or sampled by the regulatory authority as often as
necessary for enforcement of this chapter. The regulatory authority may, upon
notice to the owner or person in charge, place a hold order on any food which
it believes creates a potential hazard to public health. The regulatory
authority shall tag, label, or otherwise identify any food subject to the hold
order. No food subject to a hold order shall be used, served, or removed from
the food establishment. The regulatory authority shall permit storage of the
food under conditions specified in the hold order, unless storage is not
possible without risk to the public health, in which case, immediate
destruction shall be ordered and accomplished. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff.
12-1-2018)
5-2-14: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Suspension Of License:
      1.   Authority To Suspend: The regulatory authority may, without warning,
notice, or hearing, suspend any license to operate a food establishment if the
holder of the license does not comply with the requirements of this chapter, if
the operation of the food establishment does not comply with the requirements
of this chapter, or if the operation of the food establishment otherwise
constitutes an imminent health hazard. Suspension is effective upon service of
the notice required in subsection A2 of this section. When a license is
suspended, food service operations shall immediately cease.
      2.   Notice Of Suspension: Whenever a license is suspended, the license
holder or the person in charge shall be notified in writing that the license
is, upon service of the notice, immediately suspended.
      3.   Termination Of Suspension: The regulatory authority may end the
suspension at any time if reason for suspension no longer exists. After
receiving a written request from the license holder stating that the conditions
cited in the suspension notice no longer exists, the regulatory authority shall
conduct a re-inspection of the food establishment within two (2) business days.
      4.   Revocation Of Suspended License: If the license holder does not give
a written request for a hearing, or a written request for re-inspection within
thirty (30) days, the suspended license becomes revoked.
      5.   Fees Not Paid: The regulatory authority may suspend a license for
any fines or fees not paid within ninety (90) days and the regulatory authority
may revoke the license for any fines or fees not paid within six (6) months.
The State's Attorney's Office can charge the individual with a misdemeanor
under the State Statute if deemed appropriate.
   B.   Revocation Of License:
      1.   Authority To Revoke: The regulatory authority may, after providing
opportunity for a hearing, revoke a license for serious or repeated violations
of any of the requirements of this chapter; or for interference with the
regulatory authority in the performance of its duty.
      2.   Notice And Effect Of Revocation: Prior to revocation, the regulatory
authority shall provide written notice to the license holder or the person in
charge of the specific reason(s) for which the license is to be revoked. The
notice shall further state that the license shall be revoked at the end of the
ten (10) days following service of such notice.
      3.   Application After Revocation: Whenever a revocation of a license has
become final, the holder of the revoked license may make written application
for a new license. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-15: SERVICE OF NOTICE OF SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A notice provided for in this chapter is properly served when it is delivered
to the license holder or the person in charge, or when it is sent by certified
mail, to the last known address of the license holder. A copy of the notice
shall be kept in the records of the regulatory authority. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-
2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-16: HEARINGS:
An opportunity for a hearing on hold orders, suspension, or revocation of a
license will be provided if a written request is filed with the regulatory
authority within ten (10) business days of notice. If a written request is
received, the hearing shall be held within twenty (20) business days after
receipt of the request. If no written request is received within the set time,
the following will occur:
   Hold order: The food shall be destroyed or denatured.
   Suspension: License becomes revoked.
   Revocation: Becomes final.
The hearings provided for in this chapter shall be conducted by the regulatory
authority at a designated time and place. Any oral testimony given at a hearing
shall be reported verbatim, and the Public Health Administrator shall make the
final finding based upon the complete hearing record and shall sustain, modify
or rescind any notice or order considered in the hearing. A written report of
the hearing decision shall be furnished to the license holder by the regulatory
authority. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-17: CERTIFIED MANAGER REQUIRED:
The person in charge of all category I and category II food establishments
shall possess a valid food protection manager certificate. A person in charge
must be present at the category I or category II food establishment during all
hours of operation. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-18: INFECTED EMPLOYEES:
   A.   When the regulatory authority has reasonable cause to suspect possible
disease transmission by an employee of a food establishment, it may secure
morbidity history of the suspected employee or make any other investigation as
indicated and shall take appropriate action:
      1.   The immediate exclusion of the employee from employment in a food
establishment.
      2.   The immediate closing of the food establishment involved until, in
the opinion of the regulatory authority, no further danger of disease outbreak
exists.
      3.   Restriction of the employee's work duties to some area of the food
establishment where there would be no danger of transmitting disease.
      4.   Adequate medical and laboratory examinations of the employee and of
other employees and of his and their bodily discharges.
   B.   Food establishments shall have a written employee health policy to
ensure that management, food employees, and conditional employees understand
their responsibilities as it relates to reporting illness.
      1.   Food employees and conditional employees shall report symptoms or
diagnosis with an illness of a disease that is transmissible through food or
exposure to food or a condition that could put food or employees at risk.
      2.   Management shall take appropriate action to exclude, restrict and/or
monitor food employees once the aforementioned conditions have been brought to
their attention.
      3.   Management shall adhere to orders given by the regulatory authority
during all aspects of an outbreak investigation and adhere to all
recommendations provided to stop the outbreak from continuing.
   C.   A food establishment shall have written procedures in place relating to
the specific actions employees must take in response to vomiting or diarrheal
events that involve discharge onto surfaces in the food establishment. (Ord.
2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-19: TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS, FARMERS' MARKET, COTTAGE FOOD OPERATION:
   A.   Temporary Food Establishment: A temporary food establishment shall
comply with all the provisions of this chapter which are applicable to its
operation. The regulatory authority may augment such requirements that, when
needed to ensure the service of safe food, may prohibit the sale of certain
time/temperature control for safety foods and may modify specific requirements
for physical facilities when no imminent health hazard will result.
      1.   A category I temporary food establishment must operate under the
supervision of a certified food protection manager. A category I temporary food
establishment serves foods with extensive or complicated preparation, high risk
foods, or high risk operations, such as ribs, chili, pig roasts, or barbeques.
      2.   A category II temporary food establishment is not required to have a
certified food protection manager present. A category II temporary food
establishment serves foods with limited preparation or handling, such as hot
dogs, hamburgers, or foods pre-packaged in individual portions by a licensed
food establishment.
      3.   Any event which has two (2) or more temporary food establishments or
mobile vendors must designate an event coordinator. The event coordinator must
submit an event information sheet in addition to any required temporary food
permit applications. The event information sheet must be submitted at least
five (5) business days before the scheduled event.
      4.   A maximum of twelve (12) temporary event permits may be issued to a
person or organization per license year.
      5.   No direct sale of baked goods from a home kitchen will be permitted
at a temporary food establishment except non-time/temperature control for
safety baked goods such as cookies, cakes and high acid fruit pies, which have
not frequently been associated with foodborne illness. These foods may be
prepared in non-inspected kitchens provided the products are only sold at a
bake sale sponsored as a fundraiser for a non-profit organization. Baked goods
made in a non-inspected kitchen shall prominently display a placard mentioning
that the kitchen/baked goods have not been inspected and that the kitchen may
also process common food allergens.
   B.   Farmers' Market: A farmer who engages in the retail sale of farm
products at farmers' markets must obtain a farmers' market permit annually in
accordance with section 3.3 of the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act.
   C.   Cottage Food Operations: A cottage food operation must register with
the regulatory authority annually. In the event of a consumer complaint or
foodborne illness outbreak, the regulatory authority is allowed to inspect the
premises of the cottage food operation in question and set a reasonable fee for
that inspection.
   D.   Samples: Any licensed farmers' market vendor or registered cottage food
vendor sampling their products must obtain a Farmers' Market Food Product
Sampling Handler Certificate from Illinois Department of Public Health prior to
providing samples.
   E.   Violations: In the case of temporary food establishments or a farmers'
market vendor, violations must be corrected within a specified period of time,
not to exceed twenty four (24) hours. Failure to comply with such notice shall
result in immediate suspension of the permit. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff.
12-1-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-11, 10-11-2022)
5-2-20: DRINKING WATER AND WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Water from a non-public water system shall be tested at the owner's
expense at least annually and as required by State water quality regulations. A
copy of laboratory analysis showing safe results is required for license
renewal. No additional laboratory analysis is required for license renewal if
the food establishment is regulated as a non-community water supply. If a safe
water sample is not achievable, the license will be temporarily suspended until
safe water can be provided.
   B.   Sewage shall be disposed through an approved facility that is either a
public sewage treatment plant or a private sewage disposal system that is
sized, constructed, maintained, and operated in accordance with the Illinois
Private Sewage Disposal Code.
      1.   Septic tanks are to be pumped, at a minimum, every two (2) years. A
copy of the pumping report is required for license renewal. Inability to submit
the required confirmation of septic tank maintenance will result in a
temporarily suspended license until written proof is submitted.
      2.   Any uninspected or unpermitted septic system, or septic system that
a record does not exist for, shall take the steps set forth by the regulatory
authority to determine if the system is compliant with this subsection B. (Ord.
2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
5-2-21: SMOKE FREE ENVIRONMENT:
All food establishments are required to be smoke free. Smoking is prohibited in
indoor areas under the control of a public or private employer that employees
are required to enter, leave, or pass through during the course of employment.
Such areas include offices, restrooms, conference rooms, break areas, work
areas, cafeterias or other common areas. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-
2018)
5-2-22: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a petty offense punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. In addition thereto, such persons may be enjoined from
continuing such violations. Each day upon which such a violation occurs
constitutes a separate violation. On the tenth day of a new year, any unpaid
food service establishment license fees will be turned over to the State's
Attorney for legal action. (Ord. 2018-10, 10-9-2018, eff. 12-1-2018)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Title
5-3-2: Purpose And Interpretation
5-3-3: Jurisdiction
5-3-4: Definitions
5-3-5: Public Nuisances Enumerated
5-3-6: Refuse Disposal Sites
5-3-7: Unlawful Refuse Deposits
5-3-8: Enforcement
5-3-9: Notice To Abate
5-3-10: Penalties
5-3-11: Nuisance Removal; Costs A Lien
5-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the JO DAVIESS COUNTY PUBLIC NUISANCE ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
5-3-2: PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to define and abate public
nuisances in the unincorporated area of the county.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: To the extent any prior ordinances enacted by
the county board conflict or are inconsistent with the provisions of this
chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall control, and any such prior
ordinances or parts thereof shall be deemed to be repealed to the extent as may
be necessary to bring them into conformity with this chapter. (Ord. 2012-4, 2-
14-2012)
5-3-3: JURISDICTION:
This chapter shall apply only in those areas of the county which are outside
the corporate limits of any city, village or incorporated town. (Ord. 2012-4,
2-14-2012)
5-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
DISPOSAL SITE: An area of land serving as a central location receiving
consolidated refuse from more than one source.
FARM: Where farms are exempt from the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
defined as a tract of land used in the production of food or fiber or other
agricultural operations of such extent and character as generally prevail on
farms, and being accessory to a farm operation. It shall be a farm in fact, and
not in name only.
GARBAGE AND DEBRIS: Includes, but is not limited to, paper, cardboard, cartons,
boxes, barrels, lumber, concrete, scrap metal, appliances, furniture, glass,
bottles, crockery, tin cans, vehicle parts, boats, furniture and any other
manufactured or constructed object which has outlived its usefulness in its
original form (notwithstanding the fact that the object may have scrap value or
could be reconditioned with substantial repair) where such object, due to its
present condition and/or visibility, may reasonably be construed to be
unsightly, dangerous, or unsanitary. As used herein, the phrase "garbage and
debris" does not include "inoperable vehicle".
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least
seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, on or
which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise
so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven properly and safely
under its own motor power, or any motor vehicle which is not duly licensed as
required by the Illinois vehicle code. "Inoperable vehicle" does not include a
motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven
under its own motor power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations. "Inoperable vehicle" does not include vehicles used primarily for
farming purposes.
REFUSE: Shall mean and include:
   A.   Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food.
   B.   Landscape waste or clean fill materials as defined and regulated by the
Illinois environmental protection agency.
SEWAGE: Water carried animal or human waste and other liquid wastes from
residences, business buildings, industrial establishments or other places.
(Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
5-3-5: PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   Water Pollution: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water
of any well, drinking hydrant or spring containing or producing water of
drinking quality.
   B.   Sewage And Wastewater Discharges: To permit or cause the discharge of
any untreated sewage, laundry waste, effluent from a septic tank or industrial
wastes or other effluent which has not been treated so as to render it harmless
or inoffensive or meets the purity standards of the Illinois environmental
protection agency, upon the ground surface, upon a roadway, or into any
abandoned well or mine shaft, pond, stream, river, lake or crevice.
   C.   Inoperable Vehicles: To keep or store any inoperable vehicle on public
or private property unless said motor vehicle is kept within an enclosed
building, is a historic vehicle with an antique vehicle plate, or is stored or
kept on premises properly zoned for and engaged in the business of wrecking or
junking motor vehicles.
   D.   Garbage And Debris: To keep or store garbage and debris on public or
private property except in a state permitted landfill. (Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
5-3-6: REFUSE DISPOSAL SITES:
   A.   Approval Required: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or
corporation to operate a disposal site by depositing or dumping, or permit the
operation of a disposal site by permitting the depositing or dumping of refuse
upon any land in the county without the approval of the site by the Illinois
environmental protection agency notwithstanding all other federal, state, and
local guidelines.
   B.   Location And Operation Requirements: All refuse disposal sites shall be
located and operated in accordance with the standards of the Illinois
environmental protection agency.
   C.   Compliance With Rules And Regulations: All refuse disposal sites shall
also comply with the rules and regulations pertaining to their operation which
may be promulgated by the enforcement official. (Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
5-3-7: UNLAWFUL REFUSE DEPOSITS:
   A.   No person shall deposit or dump or maintain or permit the depositing or
dumping on any land in the county of any refuse which, by reason of its
quantity or decomposition, could become foul, odorous, subject to spontaneous
combustion, rodent infested, or otherwise be detrimental to the public health
or safety or conducive to the spread of disease, without covering aforesaid
substance with soil to an adequate depth within twenty four (24) hours, or
otherwise handled in such a manner as may be approved by the enforcement
official.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to deposit or dump any refuse in streets, alleys,
roadways or other public land.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or dump any refuse upon
land owned or leased by another person without that person's permission. (Ord.
2012-4, 2-14-2012)
5-3-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Official: This chapter shall be enforced by the county
health department, county department of building and zoning, and/or county
sheriff's department.
   B.   Inspections: The enforcement official or his authorized representative
is hereby authorized and directed to make the necessary inspections to obtain
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. For the purpose of making such
inspections, the enforcement official is hereby authorized to enter any
property at any reasonable time, with proper identification, for the purpose of
determining compliance with this chapter, after obtaining permission from the
property owner.
   C.   Complaints: Enforcement officials shall have authority to issue
nontraffic complaint tickets (notices to appear) to any person violating any of
the provisions of this chapter. This is not intended as the exclusive means of
initiating an action. (Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
5-3-9: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Enforcement officials shall provide fifteen (15) working days' notice to
violators to abate an existing nuisance before issuing any complaint. Said
notice shall advise the violator of the violation and demand that the violation
be removed within fifteen (15) days. It shall be sufficient that the notice
shall be posted on the violation in plain view. (Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
5-3-10: PENALTIES:
A person who violates or refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and after the expiration of fifteen (15) day notice period,
each day's failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense. The enforcement official shall have the power to
seek injunctive relief in the event of any person's continued violation or
refusal to obey any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
5-3-11: NUISANCE REMOVAL; COSTS A LIEN:
   A.   Authority To Remove And Collect Costs: The county board hereby provides
for the removal of garbage and debris from unincorporated areas of the county
if the owner of the property refuses or neglects to remove the garbage and
debris and may collect the reasonable costs of removal from the owner.
   B.   Notice To Remove: Notice of the county's intention to remove garbage
and debris shall be given to the owners of the property by mailing a written
copy of the notice to the last known address of each owner at least fifteen
(15) days before the action is intended to be taken.
   C.   Costs A Lien:
      1.   Notice Of Lien: This cost of removal is a lien upon the real estate
affected that is superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax
liens, if within sixty (60) days after the costs are incurred, the county or
person performing the service by authority of the county, in his or its own
name, files notice of lien in the office of the county recorder. The notice
shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: a) a description of the real
estate sufficient for identification; b) the amount of money representing cost
and expense incurred or payable for the service; and c) the date or dates when
the costs were incurred by the county.
      2.   Validity Of Lien: The lien of the county shall not be valid as to
any purchaser whose rights in and to the real estate have arisen after the
removal of the garbage and debris and before the filing of the notice. The lien
of the county shall not be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor, or
other lienor whose rights in and to the real estate arose before the filing of
the notice.
      3.   Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the removal costs by the property
owner or persons interested in the property, the lien shall be released by the
county or the person in whose name the lien has been filed, and the release may
be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
      4.   Foreclosure Of Lien: The lien may be enforced by proceedings to
foreclose as in the case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. An action to
foreclose this lien shall be commenced within two (2) years after the date of
filing notice of the lien. (Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
CHAPTER 4
INOPERABLE VEHICLES; GARBAGE AND DEBRIS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2012-4, 2-14-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-5-1: Abandonment Of Animals Prohibited
5-5-2: Enforcement Officials
5-5-3: Inoculation Against Rabies; Rabies Inoculation Tags
5-5-4: Dogs At Large
5-5-5: Noisy Dogs
5-5-6: Cats
5-5-7: Fines/Fees Collected; Deposit In Animal Control Fund
5-5-1: ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any animal. Any person who
violates this section shall be punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, or be imprisoned in the County Jail for not less than
thirty (30) days nor more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (1977 Code §§ 2-1, 2-2; amd. 2009 Code)
5-5-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Deputy Administrator: The Administrator, pursuant to the Animal Control
Act 78-795 (1973) 1 , is hereby authorized to appoint a Deputy Administrator to
assist in registration of dogs in the County. (1977 Code § 2-29)
   B.   Animal Control Warden:
      1.   Appointment: The Administrator is hereby authorized to appoint an
animal control warden to assist in performing the duties required by the
statute indicated in subsection A of this section and this chapter. (1977 Code
§ 2-30)
      2.   Duties: The animal control warden shall, as part of his duties,
respond to the request of any resident of the County to pick up and dispose of
any dog, whether running at large or not. (1977 Code § 2-32)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
5-5-3: INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES; RABIES INOCULATION TAGS:
   A.   Required: Every owner of a dog four (4) months or more of age, who is a
resident of the County, is required to have the dog inoculated against rabies
as denoted in the Animal Control Act.
   B.   Approved Interval: Every dog shall have a second rabies vaccination
within one year of the first vaccination and every year thereafter. However, if
the vaccine used is one recognized by the State Department of Agriculture for a
three (3) year period of immunity, and the dog is over twelve (12) months of
age at the time of inoculation, the interval between inoculations may be
extended to three (3) years.
   C.   Inoculation Certificate: Evidence of such rabies inoculation shall be
entered on a certificate, the form provided by the Animal Control Department.
The inoculation certificate shall be signed by a licensed veterinarian
administering the vaccine and a copy provided to the Animal Control Department.
   D.   Purchase Of Inoculation Tag: County dog owners shall have ten (10) days
from the date of inoculation to purchase a rabies inoculation tag.
   E.   Fees:
      1.   Fees Established: Every dog owner shall pay a rabies tag fee as
follows:
         a.   For each unspayed female dog and unneutered male dog owned by a
person, the fee shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) per year or eighty five
dollars ($85.00) for three (3) years.
         b.   For each spayed female dog and neutered male dog owned by a
person, the fee shall be eighteen dollars ($18.00) per year or fifty dollars
($50.00) for three (3) years.
         c.   For an Illinois Department of Agriculture licensed kennel, in
lieu of paying individual rabies tag fee for each dog, the operator has the
option of paying an annual fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), regardless
of the number of dogs. This fee may be collected quarterly.
         d.   If a rabies tag purchase is delinquent by more than thirty (30)
days, a fifty dollar ($50.00) penalty fee will be assessed in addition to the
applicable rabies tag fee. (Ord. 2011-6, 8-9-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
         e.   The fee for a replacement rabies tag is established at eight
dollars ($8.00). (Ord. 2018-5, 4-9-2018, eff. 6-1-2018)
      2.   Animal Control Fund: All fees collected shall be remitted to the
County Treasurer, who shall place such money in the Animal Control Fund, which
fund is to be used for the purpose of paying the cost of the animal control
program.
   F.   Administration Of Provisions: The administration of this section shall
be under the supervision of the Animal Control Act.
   G.   Enforcement Officials: The Administrator, Deputy Administrator and
animal control warden are, for the purpose of enforcing this chapter, clothed
with full police power. The Sheriff and his deputies and Municipal police
officers shall cooperate with the Administrator in carrying out the provisions
of this section.
   H.   Violation; Prosecution: Any person violating or aiding in or abetting
the violation of any provision of this section, or counterfeiting or forging
any certificate, permit or tag, or making any misrepresentation in regard to
any matter prescribed by this section, or resisting, obstructing, or impeding
the Administrator or any authorized officer in enforcing this section, or
refusing to produce evidence of inoculation for any dog in his possession, or
who removes a tag from a dog for purposes of destroying or concealing its
identity, is guilty of a petty offense for a first or second offense and shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and for a third and subsequent offense, is guilty of a
Class C misdemeanor. Each day a person fails to comply constitutes a separate
offense. Each State's Attorney to whom the Administrator reports any violation
of this section shall cause appropriate proceedings to be instituted in the
proper courts without delay and to be prosecuted in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 2011-6, 8-9-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
5-5-4: DOGS AT LARGE:
   A.   Definitions:
    DOG: Includes all members of the canine family.
   OWNER: Any person having a right of property in a dog, or who keeps or
harbors a dog, or who has it in his care, or acts as its custodian, or who
knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him,
whether or not such dog is licensed.
   RUNNING AT LARGE: Any dog which is not confined upon the premises of the
owner. (1977 Code § 2-19)
   B.   Dogs At Large Prohibited; Penalty: Owners of any dog which is allowed
to run at large in any area of the County shall be deemed guilty of a petty
offense and shall be fined not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for such
offense. (1977 Code § 2-18)
   C.   Poundmaster: The County Board from time to time may appoint a
poundmaster whose compensation shall be fixed at the time of appointment, and
the County Board further may procure or establish a pound in some convenient
place in the County. The duly designated poundmaster shall have control and
charge of the County pound. (1977 Code § 2-15)
   D.   Impoundment Of At Large Dogs; Authority To Kill: Any dog found running
at large in any unincorporated area of the County shall be deemed and
considered a public nuisance, and it shall be the duty of the Sheriff's
Department or such other person as may be appointed as poundmaster to impound
such dog. If any such dog cannot be safely taken up and impounded and acts in
any manner that is defined as a dangerous dog, any police officer may then kill
the dog as the abatement of a public nuisance. (1977 Code § 2-14; amd. 2009
Code)
   E.   Notice Of Impoundment: When dogs are apprehended and impounded by the
poundkeeper, the owner of said dog without a valid rabies tag, if known, shall
be given notice not less than three (3) days prior to euthanasia or adoption.
The poundkeeper shall give notice to the owner of said dog with a valid rabies
tag, if known, not less than ten (10) days prior to euthanasia or adoption. An
affidavit or testimony of the poundkeeper, or his authorized agent, who mailed
such notice shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of such notice by the
owner of such dog. (1977 Code § 2-16; amd. 2009 Code)
   F.   Redemption Of Impounded Dogs: In case the owner of any impounded dog
desires to make redemption thereof, he may do so on the following conditions:
(Ord., 4-12-2004)
      1.   He must present proof of current rabies inoculation; or
      2.   He must pay for the inoculation of the dog; and (Ord., 4-12-2004;
amd. Ord. 2011-6, 8-9-2011, eff. 9-1-2011)
      3.   He must pay the pound for the board of the dog for the period it was
impounded; and
      4.   He must pay a pick up fee of seventy dollars ($70.00) for the first
instance his dog is impounded and a pick up fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each subsequent instance the dog is impounded at the Dubuque
Humane Society; or
      5.   He must pay a pick up fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for a dog
that is impounded at the Elizabeth holding kennel overnight. (Ord., 4-12-2004)
5-5-5: NOISY DOGS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: No dog owner shall allow his dog to emit excessive
noises, day or night, so as to disturb the peace or quiet of any person in any
incorporated or unincorporated area of the County while said dog is not within
the confines of the dog owner's residence or other enclosed building upon the
owner's property. Any dog emitting such noises shall be deemed and considered
to be a public nuisance. Any dog owner who fails, neglects or refuses to abate
such nuisance after written notice thereof shall be deemed to have committed a
separate violation of this section for each twenty four (24) hour period that
the nuisance continues.
For purposes of this section, the term "excessive noises" mean any continued,
repeated or habitual barking, whining, crying, howling, whimpering, crowing, or
loud noise common to an animal's species that exceeds ten consecutive minutes
in duration or occurs intermittently for a significant portion of the day or
night, that is louder than average conversational level at a distance of one
hundred (100) feet or more.
   B.   Notice Requirements; Abatement Required: Any County law enforcement
officer or designated deputy enforcing officer, upon observing any violation of
this section, shall issue a written notice directed to the dog owner, which
said notice shall describe the violation and shall establish a reasonable time
limit for the abatement thereof by such owner, which time shall be not less
than one day nor more than ten (10) days after service of such notice.
   C.   Investigation: Upon the termination of the time allowed for the
abatement of such nuisance, the law enforcement officer or deputy enforcing
officer who served such notice shall investigate whether the nuisance has been
abated.
   D.   Complaint Filed: In the event the dog owner has failed to abate such
nuisance within the time prescribed, a complaint may be filed with the Circuit
Court charging a violation of this section.
   E.   Penalties: Any person found guilty of violating subsection A of this
section as a first offense shall be fined not less than sixty dollars ($60.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), plus court costs. Any person
convicted of violating subsection A of this section as a second offense shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), plus court costs. Any person found guilty of violating
subsection A of this section as a third or subsequent offense shall be fined
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), plus court costs. (Ord., 7-11-2006; amd. 2009 Code; Ord. 2018-5,
4-9-2018, eff. 6-1-2018; Ord. 2023-1, 3-14-2023)
5-5-6: CATS:
   A.   The fee to pick up an impounded cat is established at seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for the first instance the cat is impounded and a pick up fee
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each subsequent instance the cat is
impounded at the Dubuque Humane Society. (Ord. 2018-5, 4-9-2018, eff. 6-1-2018)
5-5-7: FINES/FEES COLLECTED; DEPOSIT IN ANIMAL CONTROL FUND:
All fines and fees collected pursuant to authority granted under this Chapter 5
of Title 5 shall be deposited into the county’s animal control fund. (Ord.
O2023-11, 12-12-2023)
CHAPTER 6
REGIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Application For Site Approval
5-6-3: Review Of Application
5-6-4: Additional Information
5-6-5: Public Hearing
5-6-6: Public Comment
5-6-7: Record Of Hearing
5-6-8: Site Approval Decision
5-6-9: Administration Of Fees And Costs
5-6-10: Waiver Of Rules
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the following, all other words used in this chapter and defined
in the act shall have the same definitions and meanings as found in 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
APPLICATION: Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind who files a request for site approval pursuant to
this chapter.
COUNTY: Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD: The Jo Daviess County board.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: A site at which hazardous waste is disposed.
Hazardous waste is a waste as defined in the Illinois environmental protection
act 1  (hereinafter referred to as the act), as amended.
IEPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
REGIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: Any waste storage site, sanitary landfill,
waste transfer station or waste incinerator that accepts waste from or that
serves an area that exceeds or extends over the boundaries of any local general
purpose unit of government. For purposes of this chapter, a local general
purpose unit of government is the county. A "regional pollution control
facility" is also any facility defined as such in the act.
REGIONAL POLLUTION CONTROL HEARING COMMITTEE (COMMITTEE): The committee
appointed by the county board chair whose function is to attend the public
hearings on requests for site approval, make factual findings, and make
recommendations regarding the requests for site approval to the county board.
(1977 Code ch. 28 § 1; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
5-6-2: APPLICATION FOR SITE APPROVAL:
   A.   Required Information:
      1.   A minimum of twenty (20) complete copies of requests for site
approval, including twenty (20) copies of all site plans, exhibits, and maps,
shall be filed in the office of the county clerk. Upon receipt of any such
request for site approval, the county clerk shall stamp same and immediately
deliver eight (8) copies of the request for site approval to the chair of the
county board, and one copy to the state's attorney. The applicant shall also
file one additional copy of the request for site approval for each municipality
within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the proposed facility. The application
shall include one set of sepia or Mylar prints and/or computer data discs of
all drawings.
      2.   A copy of the request for site approval shall be made available for
public inspection in the office of the county clerk, and members of the public
shall be allowed to obtain a copy of the request for site approval or any part
thereof upon payment of the cost of reproduction. All copying requests shall be
fulfilled by the county clerk within a reasonable time from the time of
request.
      3.   Requests for site approval shall be of the form as provided by the
county board and shall include the following:
         a.   A written petition on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/
2" x 11") paper which sets forth:
            (1)   The identification of the applicant and owner; and if the
proposed site is owned in a land trust, each beneficiary of such land trust by
name and address and his or her defined interest therein.
            (2)   The legal description of the proposed site and a street
address or some other reasonable description of where the proposed site is
located.
            (3)   A description of the proposed facility, its operation and the
expected longevity thereof.
            (4)   The area to be served by the proposed facility and a
statement of the needs for such area for such a facility.
            (5)   A list of the existing regional pollution control facilities
located within or serving or capable of serving the area proposed to be served,
and with respect to each such facility, the following information shall be
provided: location, size, owner and/or operator, type of pollution control
facility, and types of waste received.
            (6)   The expected types, amounts and methods of treatment or
storage of all waste proposed for the site and the origins of the waste.
            (7)   A description of the geological and hydrogeologic character
of the site, including core samples, the monitoring plans, including background
analyses for ground water, surface water and air.
            (8)   Financial and personal information necessary to assure the
financial integrity and qualifications of the operator of the facility.
            (9)   Reasons for supporting approval of the application.
            (10)   A prayer for site approval.
         b.   The request for a permit made to the Illinois environmental
protection agency, if any such request has been made.
         c.   A site plan showing details of the proposed facility including,
but not limited to:
            (1)   Cross sections;
            (2)   All existing wells within five hundred feet (500') of the
site;
            (3)   All monitoring wells;
            (4)   Fences, buildings and other structures;
            (5)   Roads, entrances, and driveways; and
            (6)   Core sample locations on and within two hundred feet (200')
of the site.
         d.   A detailed topographic survey of the subject site and the
surrounding area within five hundred feet (500') which indicates land use and,
if applicable, the boundary of the 100-year floodplain.
         e.   A statement of the plan of operation for the proposed facility,
including, but not limited to, the following:
            (1)   Method of landfilling, incineration, resource recovery or
other process.
            (2)   Hours of operation.
            (3)   Personnel.
            (4)   Litter, vector, dust and odor control.
            (5)   Fire control.
            (6)   Corrective actions for spills and other operations accidents.
            (7)   If applicable, the stages of development or use.
            (8)   An end use plan with an explanation of how the subject land
shall be returned to its preexisting condition at the end of the facility's
useful life.
         f.   A statement or report of traffic information regarding the
proposed site including the anticipated number of vehicles and their size,
weight and direction of movement.
         g.   All physical evidence (except oral testimony) including, but not
limited to, studies, maps, reports, permits or exhibits which the applicant
desires the county board to consider at the public hearing. It is intended that
the applicant provide a full and complete disclosure of his case to facilitate
early review and analysis by all parties.
         h.   Certificates of insurance verifying the insurance policies
carried by the applicant to cover single accidents, such as fires, explosions,
nonsudden accidental occurrences and pollution impairment.
         i.   If the site is a proposed hazardous waste facility, a copy of the
resource conservation recovery act 1  contingency plan.
         j.   A statement describing the past operating experiences of the
applicant (and any subsidiary, parent corporation, or subsidiary of the parent
corporation), in the field of solid waste management.
         k.   A statement citing the past record of convictions or admissions
of violations by the applicant (and any subsidiary, parent corporation, or
subsidiary of the parent corporation). Said statement shall include, but not be
limited to, a citation of the applicable statute or ordinance violated, a brief
written summary of the violation or conviction, and the penalty imposed.
         l.   An explanation of how the facility will affect the local
government.
         m.   (1)   A two hundred fifty thousand dollar ($250,000.00)
application fee in the form of a certified or cashier's check to cover notice
costs, court reporter costs, transcription costs, county consultant costs,
hearing officer costs, and other expenses incurred by the county in conducting
the review of the request for site approval, the subsequent public hearing, and
the site approval decision; provided, however, that any portion of the
application fee that remains unexpended at the conclusion of the site approval
decision, including appeals, shall be returned to the applicant. Should there
be any additional costs incurred by the county over the amount paid by the
applicant in the application fee, the applicant shall bear any additional
costs.
            (2)   That in the event the petitioner presents a written petition
for the site approval of a "waste transfer station" only, that a reduced
application fee in the amount of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) will be
accepted to cover notice costs, court report costs, hearing officer costs and
other expenses incurred by the county in conducting the review of the request
for site approval, the subsequent public hearing and the site approval
decision.
            (3)   That in the event that at any time prior to the conclusion of
the site approval decision, the county has expended such sums as to reduce the
balance of the a figure less than two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00), the petitioner, upon notice, shall contribute an additional two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) to the application fee to cover costs
as described above. Any portion of the fees, at the conclusion of the site
approval decision, shall be returned to the applicant.
         n.   The pages of the application and all exhibits submitted to the
county shall be consecutively numbered. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 2)
   B.   Disapproval Of Application; Time Limit For Refiling: An application for
site approval may not be filed which is substantially the same as a request
which was disapproved pursuant to a finding against an applicant under any of
subsection 5-6-8B of this chapter within two (2) years from the date of
decision. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 2; amd. 2009 Code)
   C.   Compliance With Provisions:
      1.   No application for site approval shall be deemed to have been filed
or accepted for filing unless all of the requirements of this chapter
applicable thereto shall have been met, and the county clerk shall not give a
receipt or any other indication of filing until such time as it is determined
by the state's attorney that the application complies with the requirements of
this chapter. Within a reasonable period of time after delivery of an
application, the county clerk shall advise the applicant:
         a.   Either that the application is complete and that it had been
accepted for filing, designating the date of the filing; or
         b.   That the application is not complete, specifying wherein it is
deficient. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 2)
      2.   The acceptance of the application by the county clerk is a pro forma
acceptance. The applicant is solely responsible for providing sufficient
technical information to meet his/her burden of proving the criteria cited in
section 5/39.2(a) of the act 2 , as may be amended from time to time.
      3.   In order to give members of the public opportunity to make informed
written comment pursuant to section 5/39.2(c) of the act 3  and to give members
of the public and officials of the county an opportunity to prepare adequately
and fairly for the public hearing hereinafter described, the applicant must
fully comply with all application requirements as set forth in subsection A3 of
this section. Failure to comply with all application requirements shall render
such required information inadmissible at said public hearing. (1977 Code ch.
28 § 2; amd. 2009 Code)
   D.   Amended Applications:
      1.   At any time prior to the completion by the applicant of the
presentation of the applicant's factual evidence and an opportunity for cross
questioning by the county board and any participants, the applicant may file
not more than one amended application upon payment of additional fees in the
sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) ($10,000.00 for transfer stations).
Provided, however, that the time limitations for final action by the county
board shall be extended for an additional period of ninety (90) days.
      2.   Other amendments may be made if, in the opinion of the hearing
committee, any such proposed amendment is nonsubstantive and a majority of the
regional pollution control hearing committee allow such amendment. (1977 Code
ch. 28 § 2)
 
Notes
1 1. 42 USCA § 6901 et seq.
2 1. 415 ILCS 5/39.2(a).
3 2. 415 ILCS 5/39.2(c).
5-6-3: REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Review Officials And Departments: Upon receipt of a copy of a request
for site approval, the county clerk shall notify the following of such receipt:
      1.   County board chair.
      2.   State's attorney.
      3.   Superintendent of highways.
      4.   Health department.
      5.   Other officials as may be deemed appropriate by the county board
chair.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   The aforementioned departments may attend the public hearings and
may ask such questions as needed to assist in reaching their recommendations.
      2.   The officials described above and the consultants retained by the
county are authorized to present testimony at the public hearing hereinafter
described. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 3)
   C.   Reports And Recommendations: The aforementioned officers are authorized
to prepare and submit reports and recommendations in response to the request
for site approval. Preliminary reports prepared by them and retained
consultants summarizing and analyzing the request for site approval, reports,
studies, exhibits and any written comments filed with the county clerk
concerning the appropriateness of the proposed site shall be filed with the
county clerk no later than seven (7) days in advance of the date set for the
public hearing. In the event that the seventh day prior to the date set for the
public hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the next business day
shall be considered the day that reports shall be filed. Copies of the
departmental reports shall be available for public inspection in the office of
the county clerk. Members of the public shall be allowed to obtain copies of
the reports upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction. (1977 Code ch. 28
§ 3; amd. 2009 Code)
5-6-4: ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
All reports, studies, exhibits or other evidence or copies thereof, other than
testimony, which any other person desires to submit for the record at the
public hearing must be filed with the county clerk at least ten (10) days
before the public hearing and shall be available for public inspection in the
office of the county clerk. In the event that the tenth day prior to the date
set for the public hearing falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, the next
business day shall be considered the day that reports, studies, and exhibits
must be filed. The county clerk shall date stamp any such reports, studies,
exhibits or other evidence upon receipt and shall cause to have published no
later than thirty (30) days after the date of the filing of the application a
black border notice stating that such evidence and the application are
available in the county clerk's office for public inspection. In the case of
documentary evidence, members of the public shall be allowed to obtain copes of
said documents upon payment of the actual cost of reproduction. (1977 Code ch.
28 § 4; amd. 2009 Code)
5-6-5: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Time For Hearing: No sooner than ninety (90) days but no longer than
one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of filing of the request for site
approval with the county clerk, the regional pollution control hearing
committee shall commence a public hearing on the application. (1977 Code ch. 28
§ 5)
   B.   Hearing Committee: Within ten (10) business days of the date upon which
an application for site approval is accepted, the chair of the county board
shall designate seven (7) members of the county board who shall serve as the
regional pollution control hearing committee. Two (2) members of the committee
shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of holding public hearings under this
chapter.
   C.   Date, Time And Location: Within ten (10) business days of the date the
application for site approval is accepted, the chair of the county board shall
set the date, time and location upon which the public hearing shall be
commenced, but in any event, the initial public hearing must be scheduled no
sooner than ninety (90) days but no later than one hundred twenty (120) days
from the date the request for site approval was filed with the county clerk.
(1977 Code ch. 28 § 5; amd. 2009 Code)
   D.   Notice Of Hearing: The chair of the county board shall notify the
county clerk of the date upon which such hearing shall be commenced and shall
request the county clerk to cause notice of such hearing to be made as follows:
      1.   Publish two (2) legal notices in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the county. One such notice shall be published no later than sixty
(60) days from the date of filing of an application, and one such notice shall
be published no later than seventy five (75) days from the date of filing of an
application. Such notices shall consist of the following:
         a.   The name and address of the person, partnership or corporation
requesting site location approval.
         b.   The owner of the site, and in case ownership is in a land trust,
the names of the beneficiaries of said trust.
         c.   The legal description of the site.
         d.   The street address of the property, and if there is no street
address applicable to the property, a description of the site with reference to
location, ownership or occupancy or in some other manner that will reasonably
identify the property to residents of the neighborhood.
         e.   The nature and size of the proposed development.
         f.   The nature of the activity proposed.
         g.   The probable life of the proposed activity.
         h.   The time and date of the public hearing.
         i.   The location of the public hearing.
         j.   A statement that all copies of evidence other than testimony to
be submitted at the public hearing must be filed with the county clerk at least
ten (10) days before the public hearing.
      2.   Certified mail to all members of the general assembly from the
district in which the proposed site is located.
      3.   Certified mail to the Illinois environmental protection agency.
      4.   Certified mail to all municipalities and townships within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the proposed facility.
      5.   Public hearing notice in a newspaper of general circulation
published as a display ad at least once during the week preceding the public
hearing. Such notice shall consist of all items described in subsection D1 of
this section except for subsections D1c and D1j.
   E.   Hearing Officer: The state's attorney shall appoint the hearing officer
for the public hearing on the request for site approval. The hearing officer
shall preside over the public hearing and shall make any decisions concerning
the admission of evidence and the manner in which the hearing is conducted
subject to this chapter. The hearing officer shall make all decisions and
rulings in accordance with fundamental fairness. The hearing officer may
exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly repetitious testimony or
other evidence. No ruling of the hearing officer shall be appealable to the
county board.
   F.   Responsibility Of Applicant: The applicant for site location approval
shall have the burden of going forward with evidence of the suitability of the
site location for the proposed use and proof of compliance with the mandates of
this chapter.
   G.   Testimonies: Any person appearing at the public hearing by signing a
written appearance shall have the right to give testimony and comment on the
suitability of the site location for the proposed use. Any person shall have
the right to be represented by any attorney at the public hearing. Such
attorneys shall have the right of reasonable cross examination. Opportunity for
any persons appearing at such public hearing to cross question any witness may
be limited by the hearing officer.
   H.   Conduct Of Hearing: Conduct of the public hearing shall be
substantially as follows:
      1.   Call to order.
      2.   Introduction of the hearing committee and hearing officer.
      3.   Recognition of the applicant and identification of the request for
site approval.
      4.   Recognition of the fees, notices, and date of filing of the request
for site approval.
      5.   Recognition of the county and other parties wishing to testify and
any other reports, exhibits, maps, or documents of record as filed pursuant to
this chapter. All parties, including members of the public, intending to
testify or cross examine must sign in or submit written notification of said
intent to the regional pollution control hearing committee (c/o the county
board) on or before the first day of the public hearing. Should the public
hearing extend beyond one day, additional parties or members of the public, not
of record as of the first day of the public hearing, will not be allowed to
present testimony or cross examine.
      6.   The applicant, the county, and other parties may make an opening
statement.
      7.   The committee shall then hear testimony from the applicant and any
witnesses the applicant may wish to call. Upon the close of the applicant's
testimony, other parties may offer expert witnesses and evidence they may wish
to present. These other parties may or may not be represented by counsel. Upon
the close of the applicant's and other parties' testimonies and evidence, the
county may present any witnesses and evidence it wishes to present. Members of
the public, of record, as set forth in subsection H5 of this section, may then
present oral comment to the hearing committee. The hearing officer shall decide
the order of presentation of testimony subject to this chapter.
      8.   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the
use of exhibits. All witnesses shall be subject to cross, redirect, recross,
etc. After all parties have presented testimony, reasonable rebuttal,
surrebuttal, etc., may be allowed at the discretion of the hearing officer.
(1977 Code ch. 28 § 5)
      9.   Should any issues, facts, data, or other evidence arise during the
course of the public hearing, which were not apparent or reasonably foreseeable
by a party from the request for site approval as filed with the county clerk,
such situation may constitute grounds for a recess in public hearing for a
period not to exceed five (5) business days. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 5; amd. 2009
Code)
      10.   Summary statements by applicant, other parties and the county,
subject to limitations as imposed by the hearing officer.
      11.   Rebuttal statement, if any, by the applicant, subject to
limitations as imposed by the hearing officer.
      12.   Hearing closed. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 5)
5-6-6: PUBLIC COMMENT:
   A.   Submission To Clerk: The county clerk (on behalf of the county board)
shall receive written comment from any person concerning the appropriateness of
the proposed site. Upon receipt of any such written comment, the county clerk
shall date stamp same and shall file written comment and postmarked envelope in
which comment is received.
   B.   Copies On File: Copies of such written comments shall be made available
for public inspection in the office of the county clerk, and members of the
public shall be allowed to obtain a copy of any written comment upon payment of
actual cost of reproduction. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 6)
   C.   Time Limit For Comments: Any written comment shall be received by the
county clerk or postmarked not later than thirty (30) days after the date of
the last public hearing as hereinafter described, and the county board shall
consider any such timely written comments in making its final determination
concerning said request. In the event that the thirtieth day falls on a Sunday
or federal holiday, then the next day on which mail is delivered shall be
considered the thirtieth day for purposes of this subsection. (1977 Code ch. 28
§ 6; amd. 2009 Code)
5-6-7: RECORD OF HEARING:
   A.   The county clerk shall be responsible for keeping the record of the
hearing. The record shall consist of the following:
      1.   The request for site location approval as described in subsection 5-
6-2A3 of this chapter.
      2.   Proof of notice described in subsection 5-6-5D of this chapter.
(1977 Code ch. 28 § 7)
      3.   Proof of notice given by applicant pursuant to section 39.2(b) of
the act 1 . (1977 Code ch. 28 § 7; amd. 2009 Code)
      4.   Written comments filed by the public and received by the county
clerk or postmarked within thirty (30) days of the close of the hearing.
      5.   All reports, studies, exhibits or documents received into evidence
at the public hearing.
      6.   Transcript of the public hearing.
      7.   Findings of fact and recommendations of the committee.
      8.   The resolution containing the final decision of the county board.
   B.   The county clerk shall be responsible for certifying all copies of the
record of the public hearings. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 7)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/39.2(b).
5-6-8: SITE APPROVAL DECISION:
   A.   Public Review; Findings Of Fact: After the public hearing and any
continuation thereof, the committee shall hold a public review meeting for
purposes of establishing findings of fact and a recommendation concerning the
site approval request. Any findings of fact and recommendations shall be
supported by the record and shall be presented to the county board chair who
shall in turn submit the same to the full county board at least within one
hundred seventy (170) days from the county clerk's receipt of the site approval
request.
   B.   Criteria For Decision: In making its recommendation on the request for
site approval, the committee shall base its decision on the following criteria:
      1.   The facility is necessary to accommodate the waste needs of the area
it is intended to serve;
      2.   The facility is so designed, located and proposed to be operated
that the public health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      3.   The facility is located so as to minimize incompatibility with the
character of the surrounding area and to minimize the effect on the value of
the surrounding property;
      4.   The facility is located outside the boundary of the 100-year
floodplain, or the site is floodproofed;
      5.   The plan of operations for the facility is designed to minimize the
danger to the surrounding area from fire, spills, or other operational
accidents;
      6.   The traffic patterns to or from the facility are so designed as to
minimize the impact on existing traffic flows;
      7.   If the facility will be treating, storing or disposing of hazardous
waste, an emergency response plan exists for the facility which includes
notification, containment and evacuation procedures to be used in case of an
accidental release;
      8.   If the facility will be located within a regulated recharge area,
any and all applicable requirements specified by the Illinois pollution control
board for such area have been met; and
      9.   If the county board has adopted a solid waste management plan, the
facility is consistent with that plan.
   C.   History Of Applicant: The county board shall consider as evidence the
previous operating experience and past record of convictions or admissions of
violations of the applicant (and any subsidiary, parent corporation, or
subsidiary of the parent corporation) in the field of solid waste management
when considering criteria under subsections B2 and B5 of this section.
   D.   Decision: The county board shall consider the record from the public
hearing and the findings of fact and recommendations of the hearing committee
and shall make a determination concerning a site approval request at least
within one hundred eighty (180) days from the county clerk's receipt of the
site approval request. The county board may conditionally approve any request
for site approval, provided such conditions are not inconsistent with
regulations promulgated by the Illinois pollution control board. Any
determination by the county board shall be supported by the record.
   E.   Determination Is Final: No determination by the county board of a site
approval request may be reconsidered. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 8)
5-6-9: ADMINISTRATION OF FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   Retention Of Fees: In order to properly administer the application fee
received with respect to the hearing process and procedure set forth herein,
the county treasurer is hereby authorized and directed to receive and hold such
application fees for administration subject to review and approval by the
public health, solid waste, and recycling committee.
   B.   County Expenses: All expenses incurred by the county or officials of
the county, including the state's attorney, in conducting the review of the
request for site approval, the subsequent hearing, and the site approval
decision shall be paid from the fees as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Accounting: Upon termination of any proceedings under the hearing
process, a final accounting and summary of all authorized expenditures and
reimbursements shall be presented to the appropriate county board committees.
   D.   Refund Of Excess Fees: Any portion of an application fee not required
for reimbursement to the county for costs or expenses incurred by the county
under the hearing process shall be returned to the applicant. Should there be
costs or expenses in excess of the amount paid by the applicant in the
application fee, the applicant shall bear any and all additional costs. (1977
Code ch. 28 § 9)
5-6-10: WAIVER OF RULES:
In order to ensure fundamental fairness, compliance with the act, and to
protect the public interest, the hearing committee, by majority vote of the
members (4) may waive any of the above rules; except, that the vote shall not
conflict with nor override the provisions of section
5-6-6 of this chapter. (1977 Code ch. 28 § 10)
CHAPTER 7
WATER SUPPLY
ARTICLE A. PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY
SECTION:
5-7A-1: Purpose
5-7A-2: State Regulations Adopted
5-7A-3: Definitions
5-7A-4: Availability Of Supply; Use Required
5-7A-5: Potable Water Supply Required
5-7A-6: Other Sources Of Water
5-7A-7: Abandoned Wells
5-7A-8: Permit Requirements And Exemptions
5-7A-9: Well Facility Requirements
5-7A-10: Disinfection And Analysis
5-7A-11: Inspections And Evaluations
5-7A-12: Fees
5-7A-13: Violations; Penalties
5-7A-1: PURPOSE:
This article regulates water supplies, the construction and modification of
water wells, the sealing of abandoned wells, and the inspection of water
supplies and their components within the county. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
In addition to those provisions set forth, this article shall be interpreted
and enforced in accordance with provisions set forth in the following statutes,
rules, and regulations of the state department of public health and any
subsequent amendments or revisions thereto, which publications are incorporated
herein and adopted by reference as part of this article:
   A.   Illinois water well construction code, 77 Illinois administrative code
920.
   B.   Illinois water well pump installation code, 77 Illinois administrative
code 925.
   C.   Public area sanitary practice code, 77 Illinois administrative code
895.
   D.   Drinking water systems code, 77 Illinois administrative code 900.
   E.   Surface water treatment code, 77 Illinois administrative code 930.
   F.   Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   G.   Illinois groundwater protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 55/
1 et seq.
   H.   Primary drinking water standards, 35 Illinois administrative code 611.
(Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
ABANDONED WELL: A water or monitoring well which is no longer used to supply
water, or which is in such a state of disrepair that the well or boring has the
potential for transmitting contamination into an aquifer or otherwise threatens
the public health or safety.
CERTIFIED LABORATORY: A laboratory operated by the Illinois department of
public health or a laboratory given certification approval for analyzing
samples of water for potable use.
COMMUNITY PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A public water system which serves at least
fifteen (15) service connections used by residents, or regularly serves twenty
five (25) or more residents for at least sixty (60) days per year.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: That person or persons designated by the Jo Daviess County
board of health to enforce this article.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Jo Daviess County department of public health, including
its duly authorized representatives.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATOR: The individual selected by the Jo Daviess
County board of health to administer and enforce the policies, ordinances,
resolutions, and laws of said board.
NONCOMMUNITY PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A public water system which is not a
community water system or regularly serves twenty five (25) or more nonresident
individuals daily for at least sixty (60) days per year.
POTABLE WATER: Water that is suitable for human consumption and which meets
public health standards for drinking water.
PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: Any supply which provides water for drinking, culinary,
and sanitary purposes and serves an owner occupied single-family dwelling.
PUMP INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR: Any person who installs water well pumps, pitless
adapters, pressure tanks, etc., and holds a valid state water well pump
installer's license issue by the Illinois department of public health.
SEMIPRIVATE WATER SYSTEM: A water supply which is not a public water system,
yet which serves a segment of the public other than an owner occupied single-
family dwelling.
WATER WELL: An excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted or otherwise constructed when the intended use of such excavation is for
the location, diversion, artificial recharge, or acquisition of ground water,
except monitoring wells.
WATER WELL CONTRACTOR: Any person constructing or deepening a water well and
currently holds a valid state water well license issued by the Illinois
department of public health. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-4: AVAILABILITY OF SUPPLY; USE REQUIRED:
In those locations where a public water supply is reasonably available, that
supply shall be the sole source of water for drinking and culinary purposes. A
public water supply shall be deemed reasonably available when the subject
property is located within two hundred feet (200') of the public water supply
to which connection is practical and is permitted by the controlling authority
for said water supply. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-5: POTABLE WATER SUPPLY REQUIRED:
All premises intended for human habitation or occupancy shall be provided with
a potable water supply. The potable water supply shall not be connected to
nonpotable water and shall be protected against backflow and back siphonage in
accordance with the requirements of the Illinois plumbing code. Each potable
water supply shall provide quantities of water that are sufficient for the
drinking, culinary, and sanitary needs of the dwelling or premises served. A
minimum system pressure of twenty (20) pounds per square inch shall be
maintained throughout each potable water supply. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-6: OTHER SOURCES OF WATER:
   A.   Surface Water: All water systems which receive their source of water
from ponds, lakes, streams, rivers, or other surface collectors of water shall
be designed, constructed, and operated in accordance with the surface water
treatment code. No surface water shall be utilized as a potable water supply
unless the health authority has reviewed and approved the supply and its
components.
   B.   Cisterns: Cisterns shall not be used as a potable water supply except
where adequate ground water resources are not available. All abandoned cisterns
shall be filled with pea gravel or clean fill. Cistern water shall receive
treatment in accordance with the surface water treatment code. No surface water
shall be utilized as a potable water supply unless the health authority has
reviewed and approved the supply and its components. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-7: ABANDONED WELLS:
Wells that are abandoned shall be sealed in a manner prescribed by the health
authority and the Illinois water well construction code. The health authority
shall inspect abandoned wells which have been sealed to determine compliance
with this article. In questionable cases, the health authority shall make the
determination as to whether a water well is considered abandoned, based upon
the definition of an "abandoned well" in section
5-7A-3 of this article, and the facts in each particular case. Water well
contractors are required to identify abandoned wells on all permit applications
where the situation arises. A well driller is to contact the health department
and inform the health authority of the intended plans on properly sealing the
abandoned well. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   Water Wells: No water well shall be constructed or deepened except
in accordance with this article, and it shall be unlawful to proceed with such
work unless a permit has first been obtained from the health authority.
      2.   Noncommunity Water Supply: A noncommunity public water supply shall
not be operated without first obtaining a permit from the Illinois department
of public health.
   B.   Applications For Permits: All applications for permits under the
provisions of this article shall be made in writing and in such form as
prescribed by the health authority. Sufficient data shall be included to
determine whether the proposed application for permit meets the requirements of
this article.
   C.   Review Of Application; Issuance Of Permit; Contents: Upon submission of
the application for permit, including the plans and specifications of the
proposed water well or component thereof, the health authority shall review
said application prior to issuance of a permit. The health authority may
require additional information, which may include the location of private
sewage disposal systems and/or water wells on adjacent properties. It shall be
the responsibility of the applicant or an authorized agent of the applicant to
obtain all necessary data and to design a system which shall meet the
requirements of this article. If the health authority, upon review of the
application, finds that such application meets the requirements of this
article, and upon payment of the required fee, a permit shall be issued to the
applicant. The permit shall include specifications pertaining to each proposed
water well and shall include a statement as to any restrictions relating to the
location, materials, components, or type of water well to be constructed.
   D.   Responsibility Of Property Owner: It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner to obtain a permit before any construction or deepening of a
water well is begun. Failure of the property owner to obtain a permit before
any construction or deepening of a water well is begun shall constitute a
violation of this article.
   E.   Responsibilities Of Water Well And/Or Pump Installation Contractors:
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of the water well contractor to
ensure that a permit has been issued before any construction or deepening of a
water well is begun and to follow the conditions of said permit. Failure of the
water well contractor to ensure that the permit has been issued or to violate
the conditions of the permit shall constitute a violation of this article.
      2.   All water wells shall be constructed in accordance with the Illinois
water well construction code.
      3.   All individuals who construct water wells and install well pumps
shall be licensed by the Illinois department of public health in accordance
with the water well and pump installation contractor's license act 1 .
      4.   All licensed pump installers shall submit a pump report to the
health authority within thirty (30) days of performing work in accordance with
Illinois water well pump installation code amendment section 925.40(L).
Licensed pump installers shall install a down turned, smooth nosed faucet, not
less than eighteen inches (18") above the floor, in a convenient location
between the water well and the pressure tank or as near to the well as possible
so a water sample can be obtained.
   F.   Term Of Permit; Expiration: A permit to construct or deepen a water
well is valid for a period of twelve (12) months from the date of issuance. If
construction has not started within this period, the permit is void.
   G.   Suspension Of Permit: Upon inspection by the health authority, if it is
found that any provisions of this article or any permit specifications for a
stated property have been violated, the health authority shall notify the
installer to make such specified changes in the work to allow compliance with
the provisions of this article and the permit. If such changes are not made
within a period of time specified by the health authority, said permit shall be
suspended, and it shall be unlawful to place the water well into operation.
   H.   Exemptions From Permit: A permit to construct or deepen a water well
shall not be required by the health authority when such water well does or will
serve a community public water system or function as a monitoring well. (Ord.,
4-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 345/1 et seq.
5-7A-9: WELL FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   On new installations, no pumps, well casings, or suction lines shall be
located in any well pits existing below the finished grade of the ground
surface. Well casings shall terminate a minimum distance of eight inches (8")
above the finished grade of the ground.
   B.   All pumping equipment will be installed according to the Illinois water
well pump installation code. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-10: DISINFECTION AND ANALYSIS:
   A.   Disinfection And Analysis Required: All components of a new water well
construction and/or modification shall be thoroughly disinfected with a strong
chlorine solution which will yield a dosage of at least one hundred (100) parts
per million to the water in the well and piping system. After purging the water
system of any chlorine residual, a water sample shall be taken and analyzed by
a certified laboratory and satisfactory results obtained prior to utilizing the
water system for drinking and culinary purposes. The copy of the analysis shall
be filed with the health department. The water obtained from a semiprivate
water supply shall meet the nitrate/nitrite, chemical and bacteriological
requirements of the primary drinking water standards 1 , and the water obtained
from a private well shall meet the bacteriological and nitrate/nitrite
requirements of the primary drinking water standards. The water from a private
water system, having surface water as its source, shall meet the nitrate/
nitrite, bacteriological and turbidity requirements of the primary drinking
water standards.
   B.   Continuing Analysis: It shall be the duty of the homeowner of every
water well serving a semiprivate water system to have the water therein
bacteriologically analyzed by a certified laboratory as required by the health
authority for the protection of public health. Such water shall also be
bacteriologically analyzed whenever the water lines are opened up for repair,
replacement, or extension of the water distribution system. The water from a
semiprivate water system shall meet the nitrate, chemical and bacteriological
requirements contained in the primary drinking water standards. (Ord., 4-7-
2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 Ill. adm. code 611.
5-7A-11: INSPECTIONS AND EVALUATIONS:
   A.   Authority; Entry Powers: The health authority shall have the authority
to enter any property at any reasonable time for inspection purposes to
determine compliance with the provisions of this article. It shall be the duty
of the owner or occupant of a property to allow the health authority free
access to the property for inspection purposes to determine compliance with the
provisions of this article.
   B.   Inspection And Evaluation Of Completed Work:
      1.   A water well shall not be placed into operation until the
installation of the water well and its components have been inspected to verify
compliance with applicable provisions of this article and written approval
issued by the health authority. To the degree practical and permitted by the
health authority, the completed installation shall remain uncovered and/or
accessible for inspection purposes until approved by the health authority. If
the health authority, upon inspection of specified installation or component
thereof, finds that such work meets the provisions of this article, the health
authority shall approve such work and authorize operation of the water well.
However, compliance with subsection
5-7A-10 of this article shall be obtained prior to utilizing the water system
for drinking and culinary purposes.
      2.   At the request of a homeowner or the homeowner's representative, the
health department shall conduct a visual sanitary evaluation of the exterior
components of a well to determine general compliance with this article. The
health department shall charge a fee for this service. The fee shall be in
accordance with the county's fee schedule.
   C.   Notification For Inspection: The health authority shall be notified at
least two (2) days prior to commencing the construction or deepening of a water
well for which a permit has been issued. The health authority shall also be
notified at least two (2) days prior to sealing of an abandoned water well at
which time a date for inspection will be arranged. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-7A-12: FEES:
Permit fee is set in the Illinois water well construction code. Fees for
sanitary evaluation for well or well and septic system are charged in the
amount set by the Jo Daviess County board of health and approved by resolution
of the Jo Daviess County board. (Ord. 2010-7, 10-12-2010)
5-7A-13: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this article, which violation
constitutes a violation of any rule, regulation, order or determination of the
state department of public health adopted or made by said department pursuant
to the act shall be guilty of a class A misdemeanor and fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Any other violation of this article shall be deemed a petty offense. Each day's
violation constitutes a separate offense. (Ord., 4-7-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
ARTICLE B. GEOTHERMAL CLOSED LOOP SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-7B-1: Purpose
5-7B-2: State Regulations Adopted
5-7B-3: Definitions
5-7B-4: Materials
5-7B-5: Casing
5-7B-6: Grouting
5-7B-7: Setback Distances
5-7B-8: Registration Of Contractor/Driller
5-7B-9: Application For Registration
5-7B-10: Inspections
5-7B-11: Review And Inspection Fee
5-7B-12: Approval Of Application
5-7B-13: Notification
5-7B-14: Closed Loop Well Abandonment
5-7B-1: PURPOSE:
This article regulates the construction materials, setback distances,
registration of contractor, application, inspection and abandonment of closed
loop wells within the county. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   Illinois water well construction code, 77 Illinois administrative code
920.
   B.   Illinois water well and pump installation code, 77 Illinois
administrative code 925.
   C.   Illinois water well and pump installation contractor's license act, 225
Illinois Compiled Statutes 345/.
   D.   Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890.
   E.   Illinois groundwater protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 55/
1. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-3: DEFINITIONS:
DEPARTMENT: The Jo Daviess County health department.
GEOTHERMAL CLOSED LOOP SYSTEM: The entire system containing the horizontal
closed loop well or wells, the vertical closed loop well or wells and the
horizontal header piping.
GEOTHERMAL CLOSED LOOP SYSTEM CONTRACTOR: Any person who installs geothermal
closed loop systems for another person. Geothermal closed loop contractor does
not include employees of a geothermal closed loop contractor.
GEOTHERMAL CLOSED LOOP WELL DRILLER: Any person who installs closed loop wells
for another person. Geothermal closed loop well driller does not include
employees of a geothermal closed loop well driller.
HORIZONTAL CLOSED LOOP WELL: A closed loop well constructed to contain
horizontal piping and the installation and grouting of the horizontal piping
when such piping does not exceed twenty feet (20') in depth.
VERTICAL CLOSED LOOP WELL: A closed loop well constructed to contain vertical
piping and the installation and grouting of the vertical loop piping when such
piping exceeds twenty feet (20') in depth. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-4: MATERIALS:
Geothermal piping shall conform to section 920.180(d) of the Illinois water
well construction code. All plastic piping shall be watertight and conform to
ASTM D2447-03, or D3035-08. All joints in plastic piping shall be heat fusion
welded.
The geothermal closed loop system shall be pressure tested at a minimum
pressure of twenty (20) pounds per square inch by the geothermal closed loop
system contractor after installation to ensure that there are no leaks in the
piping or in the equipment system.
Geothermal coolant or the liquid pumped through the closed loop piping shall be
methanol, ethanol, propylene glycol, calcium chloride or ethylene glycol. These
fluids shall be used in concentrations of twenty percent (20%) or less. When
copper piping is utilized, the refrigerant shall be R-134a, R-290, or
equivalent. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-5: CASING:
When casing is installed, the casing shall comply with the requirements of
section 920.90(a) and 920 table A of the Illinois water well construction code.
This casing shall be installed in an oversize drill hole that is a minimum of
three inches (3") greater than the outer diameter of the casing or coupling,
whichever is greater. The casing shall be grouted prior to the grouting of the
geothermal piping in the inside of the casing. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-6: GROUTING:
Each closed loop well shall be grouted as required in section 920.90(h) of the
Illinois water well construction code. Each closed loop well shall be grouted
in the same day as the closed loop well was constructed. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-
2014)
5-7B-7: SETBACK DISTANCES:
The location of the closed loop well shall comply with the requirements of the
Illinois water well construction code. When USP food grade propylene glycol is
used as the geothermal coolant, the minimum setback of a closed loop well from
a water well shall be twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-8: REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTOR/DRILLER:
No person shall install a geothermal closed loop system unless that person has
registered with the department as a geothermal closed loop system contractor.
To register with the department, a person shall have a valid accreditation from
the International Ground Source Heat Pump Association (IGSHPA) or can show that
he or she has an equivalent accreditation. The geothermal closed loop system
contractor shall register annually with the department. A registration fee
shall be established by the department. The registration shall expire on
November 30 of the year of issue.
No person shall install a vertical closed loop well unless that person is a
geothermal closed loop well driller. A geothermal closed loop well driller
shall have a valid water well contractor's license issued under the Illinois
water well and pump installation contractor's license act 1  or shall have a
valid certification for the drilling of closed loop wells from the National
Ground Water Association (NGWA) or can show that he or she has an equivalent
certification. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 345/.
5-7B-9: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION:
Application for registration for a geothermal closed loop system shall be in
writing and in such form that shall be prescribed by the department. Every
application shall be signed by the geothermal closed loop system contractor. A
separate application is required for every ten (10) vertical wells or ten (10)
horizontal loop trenches.
The application shall be accompanied by a plan showing the location of all
existing structures, wells, septic tanks, secondary sewage treatment units,
cesspools, privies, sewers, lakes, ponds or streams on the applicant's property
and on neighboring properties, if they are within two hundred feet (200') of
the proposed geothermal exchange system(s).
The application shall include a borehole layout. The borehole layout shall
include borehole depth, grouting material, placement procedure and diameter of
the geothermal closed loop well driller.
The application shall identify the type of liquid that will be pumped through
the closed loop piping. At the time of installation, a placard identifying the
type of liquid shall be located so that it is clearly visible to persons
inspecting or serving the equipment.
Prior to the approval of the registration, the department, at its discretion,
may require additional information, and/or inspect the property and neighboring
properties.
Once approved, the application is effective for twelve (12) months. (Ord. 2014-
8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-10: INSPECTIONS:
The department shall have the authority to enter the property at any reasonable
time for inspection purposes to determine compliance with this chapter.
A geothermal closed loop system shall not be placed into operation until the
geothermal closed loop well has been inspected by the department to verify
compliance with this chapter and until written approval has been issued by the
department. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-11: REVIEW AND INSPECTION FEE:
Each geothermal closed loop system application shall be submitted with a review
and inspection fee in the amount set by the Jo Daviess County board of health
and approved by resolution of the Jo Daviess County board, to the registered
geothermal closed loop system contractor or driller. The review and inspection
fee once submitted is nonrefundable. The fee shall be collected by the
department at the time of application. Fees follow the schedule found in the
Illinois water well construction code section 920.200(d). (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-
2014)
5-7B-12: APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
After an application to construct a geothermal closed loop system has been
reviewed and approved, a notice to proceed shall be issued to the geothermal
closed loop system contractor. After the application is approved and issued, no
modifications shall be made without reapplying to the department. No
construction of a geothermal closed loop system shall commence prior to
approval of the application by the department. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-13: NOTIFICATION:
The department shall be notified forty eight (48) hours in advance by telephone
or in writing before beginning construction of an approved geothermal closed
loop system or the sealing of a closed loop well. Further notification may be
requested by the department as they deem necessary to assure proper
construction practices and methods, e.g., installation of geothermal piping,
and grouting. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
5-7B-14: CLOSED LOOP WELL ABANDONMENT:
Closed loop wells shall be sealed in accordance with the Illinois water well
construction code. The department shall be notified by telephone or writing at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to the commencement of any work to abandon a
closed loop well. (Ord. 2014-8, 12-18-2014)
CHAPTER 8
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Purpose
5-8-2: State Regulations Adopted
5-8-3: Definitions
5-8-4: Minimum Lot Size
5-8-5: Soil Borings
5-8-6: Soil Groupings For Septic Filter Fields
5-8-7: Permit Requirements
5-8-8: Contractor License
5-8-9: Compliance And Performance
5-8-10: Separate Systems Required For Garages, Outbuildings And Accessory
Buildings
5-8-11: Fees
5-8-12: Prohibited Discharges; Offensive Conditions
5-8-13: Inspections
5-8-14: Notice Of Violation
5-8-15: Hearings
5-8-16: Violations; Penalties; Disposition Of Fines
5-8-17: Conflicting Provisions
5-8-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates private sewage disposal, the construction and
modification of septic systems, the licensing of septic contractors, and the
inspection of septic systems within the county. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
This chapter shall be adopted by reference and shall be interpreted and
enforced in accordance with provisions set forth in the current, unabridged
form of the state department of public health private sewage disposal licensing
act 1  and code and any subsequent amendments or revisions thereto, three (3)
certified copies of which shall be on file in the office of the county clerk.
(Ord., 4-7-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
5-8-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE: The legally designated administrator or the acting
administrator of the Jo Daviess County health department and shall include
those persons designated by the administrator or acting administrator to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
BOARD OF HEALTH: The Jo Daviess County board of health or its authorized
representative(s).
DOMESTIC SEWAGE: Wastewater derived principally from plumbing fixture drains in
dwellings, business or office buildings, institutions, food service
establishments, and similar facilities. The term shall not include industrial
or commercial processing waste.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The person or persons who have been designated by the board
of health to administer the affairs of the health department.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Jo Daviess County public health department, an agency of
the Jo Daviess County board of health.
HOMEOWNER: A contract for deed buyer or a person who holds legal title to a
residential structure which is to be used or is used for his personal single-
family residence.
HOMEOWNER INSTALLED SYSTEM: A private sewage disposal system installed by a
homeowner for his personal single-family residence.
MODIFY: Any change in the design or components of a private sewage disposal
system requiring a "permit", as defined in this section.
PERMIT: A written permit issued by the board of health or its authorized
representative permitting the construction of an individual sewage disposal
system under this chapter.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: Any sewage handling or treatment facility
receiving domestic sewage from less than fifteen (15) people or population
equivalent, or any sewage handling or treatment facility receiving domestic
sewage and having no ground surface discharge.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE: An annual license issued
by the Jo Daviess County public health department to all private sewage
disposal contractors engaged in the installation and/or servicing of private
sewage disposal systems within the limits of Jo Daviess County.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM INSTALLATION CONTRACTOR: Any person excavating,
constructing, repairing, installing, modifying, or maintaining a private sewage
disposal system.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PUMPING CONTRACTOR: Any person who cleans or
pumps waste from a private sewage disposal system or hauls or disposes of waste
removed therefrom. The term includes any person who provides any portable
toilet services.
REPAIR: The reconstruction of one component of the private sewage disposal
system (e.g., septic tank or subsurface drainfield).
SEPTIC TANK MANUFACTURER'S AND/OR AERATION UNIT DEALERS: Any person who
manufactures, sells, offers for sale, or delivers septic tanks or aeration
units in or into Jo Daviess County.
VARIANCE: A circumstance that exists that makes compliance with the
requirements of this chapter impossible. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-4: MINIMUM LOT SIZE:
   A.   Minimum lot size for a residential structure requiring a private sewage
disposal system shall be in accordance with the Jo Daviess County zoning and
subdivision ordinances. However, a greater area may be required for such lots
if, in the opinion of the health department, there exist factors of drainage,
soil conditions, or other conditions which may cause potential health problems.
Lots platted and on record before the effective date hereof will be given
special consideration when applying for a permit. If a smaller area is
requested, and there are extenuating or unusual circumstances, a variance may
be granted if, in the opinion of the health department, an approved system can
be installed and no potential health hazards will exist. However, the area
shall be large enough to provide for a second private sewage disposal system of
a size and type equivalent to the minimum system approved for the lot.
   B.   Such variance requests shall be in writing and shall accompany the
required permit information and any other information required by the health
department. Upon review of the variance request information, the health
department may grant a permit variance. The proposed variance must be approved
by the health department prior to beginning work on the septic system. Any
person who has been denied a variance may appeal to the health department
administrator for further consideration.
   C.   The health department shall require subdivision developers to furnish
information concerning soil absorption capacities or require changes in a
proposed subdivision plat to reasonably ascertain that each lot of said
proposed subdivision meets the requirements of the Jo Daviess County
subdivision ordinance and will be able to support the installation and
subsequent use of an approved private sewage disposal system as defined in the
Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code and this chapter.
(Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-5: SOIL BORINGS:
   A.   Authority To Perform Soil Borings:
      1.   Prior to application for a private sewage disposal system
installation permit, an authorized representative of the health department or
other professional persons acceptable to the health authority shall conduct
soil borings as required by this chapter. Professional persons shall be
acceptable only after they have demonstrated the ability to perform soil
borings according to this chapter and have demonstrated the ability to analyze
the physical characteristics of soils. The health department reserves the right
to have professional persons submit credentials and other related information.
In order to be considered to perform soil borings, such persons must be:
         a.   Certified Illinois soil classifier (ISCA) or through the American
Registry Of Certified Professional In Agronomy, Crops And Soils (ARCPACS); or
         b.   Registered professional Illinois engineer; or
         c.   Soil scientist with a minimum of five (5) years' experience in
soil identification.
      2.   The health department may revoke the approval of persons who are
unable to accurately perform and record soil borings.
   B.   Site Evaluations In Subdivisions: Soil borings and soil evaluation to
determine the feasibility of using private sewage disposal systems in
subdivisions shall be done according to the county zoning and subdivision
ordinances. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
   C.   Application For Soil Borings: When an applicant desires to apply for a
private sewage disposal system permit on either a vacant lot or for a
malfunctioning septic system, he shall first provide a soil boring report
completed by an appropriate person as described in subsection A of this
section. On repairs to malfunctioning private sewage disposal systems which do
not include an entire new system and which the health department has sufficient
soil information available in the form of previous percolation tests and soil
profiles, the health department may waive the requirement for soil borings and
may use the previous soil information to design the repairs to the private
sewage disposal system. Soil information will be based off of the USDA soils
maps, and the "Soil Groupings For Soils Of Jo Daviess County For Septic Filter
Fields" will be used as a tool for determining the appropriateness of proposed
septic installations if borings are waived. (Ord. 2010-7, 10-12-2010)
   D.   Area Designated; Site Changes:
      1.   Designation Of Area: Before a soil boring site evaluation can be
conducted on the proposed site, the homeowner or his representative must either
meet with the soil scientist and explain where the intended house site will be
located, and reveal any pertinent information such as walkout basement,
swimming pool, etc., or flag the proposed house construction area and present
the appropriate plans to the soil scientist so accurate borings can be
performed. If a vacant lot is having soil borings performed and no immediate
construction is intended, then a minimum of four (4) borings should be
completed to find the soil group, depth to bedrock, depth to seasonal wetness
and any other information that may be pertinent in adequately explaining the
soil on the specific lot. Additional borings may have to be performed to
determine whether there is a change in soil type and where the appropriate
exact location is for a septic system. Once soil borings are completed, the
soil scientist may flag a specific area that is designated for a septic system,
or if physical structures or objects remain in the field, precise measurement
from the structure/object to the approved soil area can be noted in the soil
report in lieu of flags in the field.
      2.   Change In Site:
         a.   Changing the site of the proposed private sewage disposal system
from the area of the soil boring site evaluation will necessitate a second site
evaluation in the area where the private sewage disposal system is to be
placed.
         b.   Changing location of the drainfield without permission of the
health department is prohibited.
   E.   Reports: Soil borings performed with hand equipment as part of the site
evaluations by persons authorized by the health department will be accepted.
The borings must penetrate to a depth of at least five feet (5') below the
finished grade in the proposed seepage field area to identify soil
characteristics that may influence the operation of a private sewage disposal
system. The results of the soil borings shall be reported on a form approved by
the health department. When a limiting layer is present in a boring, a depth is
to be placed next to each boring so design factors such as chlorination
treatment can be determined. Soil type, soil group and system sizing will be
reported in unison with the "Soil Groupings For Soils Of Jo Daviess County For
Septic Filter Fields". (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-6: SOIL GROUPINGS FOR SEPTIC FILTER FIELDS:
Each soil group number is based off of the number represented in the USDA "Soil
Survey Of Jo Daviess County, Illinois". The following soil groupings are used
as a guideline. If the soil scientist finds soil characteristics that are not
usual for a particular soil type, such as soil depth or soil texture, and the
information can be substantiated and documented, then the health authority can
change the drainfield sizing or system type to better reflect the soils
characteristics.
   A.   Group I:
      1.   Group I of soils exhibits the following characteristics: deep,
greater than five feet (5') to bedrock; good drainage (well or moderately
well); no seasonal wetness closer than four feet (4') from the surface. In
instances where seasonal wetness is closer than four feet (4') from the
surface, curtain drains may be required to maintain a minimum of two feet (2')
of soil below the trench bottoms which is protected from seasonal wetness. Soil
textures are dominantly silt loam, silty clay loam, and loam. Soil colors are
dominantly yellowish brown and brown in the subsoils. Parent material is loess
and silty alluvium. Upland or stream terraces are not subject to flooding.
      2.   Soil types in this group are: 36B, 36C, 87A, 175B, 175D2, 274C2,
274D2, 274E2, 274F, 279B, 279C2, 279D2, 280B2, 280C2, 280D2, 280E2, 280F, 386B,
386C2, 680C.
      3.   Drainfield sizing is three hundred (300) square feet per bedroom for
residential use/.67 gallon per square foot per day application rate for
commercial.
   B.   Group II:
      1.   Group II of soils consists of deep, greater than five feet (5') to
bedrock; good drainage (well and moderately well); and no seasonal wetness
closer than four feet (4') from surface. In instances where seasonal wetness is
closer than four feet (4') from the surface, curtain drains may be required.
Soil textures are dominantly loam, silty clay loam, light silty clay, and clay
loam. Soil colors are brown, reddish brown and strong brown in subsoils. Parent
material is loess/glacial till, glacial till eighteen inches (18") thick.
Upland or stream terraces are not subject to flooding.
      2.   Soil types in this group are: 27D2, 119C2, 419C2, 755F2.
      3.   Drainfield sizing is four hundred (400) square feet per bedroom for
residential use/.5 gallon per square foot per day application rate for
commercial.
   C.   Group III:
      1.   Group III is made up of soils that are deep, greater than five feet
(5') to bedrock. Soil color indicates a need for tile drainage (somewhat poor
to poorly drained). Soil textures are dominantly loam, silty clay loam, silt
loam, and light clay loam. Soil colors are grayish brown or yellowish brown
with mottles or gray to olive gray with brownish mottles. Uplands or stream
terraces are not subject to frequent flooding. Parent material is loess and
silty alluvium.
      2.   Soil types in this group are: 41B, 61B, 68, 172, 278B, 8284, 7430B,
8070, 8239.
      3.   Drainfield sizing is three hundred (300) square feet per bedroom for
residential use/.67 gallon per square foot per day application rate with
curtain drain for commercial use.
   D.   Group IV:
      1.   Group IV consists of shallow soils less than five feet (5') to
bedrock; good drainage (well and moderately well). Soil textures are dominantly
loam, silt loam, silty clay loam and clay loam with a thin layer (usually less
than 12 inches of silty clay or clay residuum). Soils colors are yellowish
brown, brown, strong brown and reddish brown. Uplands. Parent material is
generally loess over dolomite residuum and dolomite.
      2.   Soil types in this group are: 29C2, 29D2, 429B2, 429C2, 429D2,
429E2, 403D, 540C2, 681E, 731B, 731C2, 731D2, 785F, 785G, 873D2, 873E2, 905F,
928D2.
      3.   These soils are not suitable for a conventional drainfield.
   E.   Group V:
      1.   Group V consists of soils developed in shale bedrock that is at
depths of less than five feet (5'). Drainage is fair to poor (well to poorly
drained). Seasonal wetness (perched water) is at depths just above shale. Soil
colors are yellowish brown, brown or gray brown with mottles above the shale.
Shale is gray, greenish gray, and olive brown with mottles. Soil textures are
silt loam, silty clay loam, silty clay over clay shale. Uplands.
      2.   Soil types in this group are: 417B, 417C2, 417D2, 417E2, 417F, 418B,
418C2, 418D2, 547C2, 547D2, 547E2, 572B, 732B, 745B, 753B, 753C2, 753D2.
      3.   These soils are not suitable for a conventional drainfield.
   F.   Group VI:
      1.   Group VI consists of soils that are on bottomlands and upland
drainageways that are subject to frequent flooding for long periods that will
adversely affect septic drainfields. Parent material is silty alluvium.
      2.   Soil types in this group are: 3077, 3333, 366, 8415, 3451, 3579,
1334.
      3.   These soils are not suitable for a conventional drainfield.
   G.   Group VII:
      1.   Group VII consists of soils that are very sandy at shallow depths of
two feet (2'). These soils do not contain enough fine soil particles (clay) to
adequately treat effluent and may cause ground water pollution.
      2.   Soil types in this group are: 53D, 88B, 88D, 565B, 565C2, 779F, 800.
      3.   These soils are not suitable for a conventional drainfield.
   H.   Group VIII:
      1.   Group VIII consists of soils that are deep and drainage is
restricted (somewhat poor). Soil textures are silt loam and silty clay loam in
the upper part over silty clay and clay. Soil colors are yellowish brown to
gray brown in the upper part and reddish brown or gray brown with mottles in
the lower part. High stream terrace topographic position. Parent material is
loess/laucaustrine clay.
      2.   Soil types in this group are: 261, 569C2, 569F2, 576.
      3.   These soils are not suitable for a conventional drainfield. (Ord.,
4-7-2008)
5-8-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
install, repair, modify or maintain private sewage disposal systems within the
county unless he holds a valid permit issued by the health department stating
the name of such person for which the work is proposed.
   B.   Determination Of Permit Requirement: The health department shall be
notified of any construction, installation modification or maintenance to any
private sewage disposal system by either a homeowner or contractor to determine
whether that modification, change, or repair requires a permit as set forth in
this section. The routine maintenance of disposal system components or
replacing the septic tank access lid/riser(s) does not require a permit as
defined under this section.
   C.   Qualified Permittees: A permit shall only be issued to a the county
licensed private sewage disposal system installation contractor working on a
sewage disposal system, or to a homeowner working on his own private sewage
disposal system. Homeowners who can demonstrate that they are able to perform
the initial construction in conformance with this chapter may do so, provided
they comply with a minimum of two (2) additional mandatory inspections and
associated fees as set forth by the health department.
   D.   Application For Permit: All applications for permits granted under the
provisions of this chapter shall be made to the board of health or its duly
authorized representative. Sufficient data shall be included to allow review
and to determine whether the proposed application for permit meets the
requirements of this chapter. Permit application forms provided by the health
department shall be completed and signed by each applicant and shall include
the name and address of the applicant and location of the proposed site of
construction, alteration, or extension as proposed. Plans shall include:
      1.   A completed permit application form signed by the applicant.
      2.   An accurate drawing showing the following:
         a.   Property lines, acreage of parcel and surface drainage on the
parcel.
         b.   Topography of the site.
         c.   Existing and proposed water wells, water lines, and surface water
on the parcel.
         d.   The proposed dwelling and other improvements on the parcel.
         e.   Existing wells, sewage disposal systems, structures and surface
water on immediately adjoining parcels, if within one hundred feet (100') of
the adjacent property line.
         f.   Location of soil borings holes and proposed private sewage
disposal system components.
         g.   Depth below grade of the building sewer line and elevation change
from building sewer level to private sewage disposal system.
         h.   Location of any abandoned wells, cisterns or mineshafts on the
property.
         i.   Area for future drainfield expansion equal to proposed drainfield
area. Drainfield area shall be sized according to the square footage area per
bedroom assigned to the different soil types in the soil grouping list.
   E.   Action On Permit:
      1.   Time For Action: The board of health or its authorized
representative shall act upon all applications within seven (7) workdays of
receipt thereof.
      2.   Denial Of Permit; Availability Of Public Or Community System: The
board of health or its authorized representative may refuse to grant a permit
for the construction of a private sewage disposal system where public or
community sewage systems are available. A sewer shall be deemed available when
a public sewer line is in place within any street, alley, right of way, or
easement that adjoins or abuts the premises for which the permit is requested,
or when the improvement to be served is located within a reasonable distance of
a public sewer to which a connection is practical and is permitted by the
controlling authority for the sewer. A reasonable distance, for the purpose of
this provision, shall be deemed to be not greater than three hundred feet
(300') for a single-family residence and not greater than one thousand feet
(1,000') for a commercial establishment, subdivision, or multi-family dwelling.
   F.   Expiration Of Permit: Said permit to construct is valid for a period of
twelve (12) months from date of issuance. If construction has not started or if
the system is not completed within this period, the permit is void. (Ord., 4-7-
2008)
5-8-8: CONTRACTOR LICENSE:
   A.   Annual License Required: An annual contractor's license shall be
required by all private sewage disposal system installation contractors and all
private sewage disposal pumping contractors operating within the limits of the
county.
   B.   Examination Required: The health department shall issue a private
sewage disposal system installation contractor license or a private sewage
disposal system pumping contractor license to persons applying for such license
who have passed the written examination given by the state for the license
desired. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
   C.   License Fee And Expiration: An annual license fee shall be required for
each license issued. Fees are charged in the amount set by the Jo Daviess
County board of health and approved by resolution of the Jo Daviess County
board. All licenses shall expire November 30 of the year issued, except those
issued in November will expire November 30 of the following year. (Ord. 2010-7,
10-12-2010)
   D.   Records Required: (Rep. by Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
   E.   Notice Of Septage Disposal Sites: (Rep. by Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
   F.   Revocation Or Suspension Of License:
      1.   Revocation: For serious or repeated violations of any of the
requirements of this chapter, the private sewage disposal contractor's license
may be revoked after the health authority has provided an opportunity for a
hearing. Prior to such action, the health authority shall notify the person in
writing, stating the reasons for which the license is subject to revocation and
advising that the license shall be revoked at the end of five (5) days
following service of such notice, unless a request for a hearing is filed with
the health authority, by the holder, within such five (5) day period.
      2.   Suspension: A license may be suspended for cause pending its
revocation or a hearing relative thereto where a clear and present danger to
the public health is preliminarily found to exist by the health authority.
(Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-9: COMPLIANCE AND PERFORMANCE:
   A.   Compliance Required:
      1.   No building permit for new structures with indoor plumbing
facilities shall be issued nor any mobile home placement approved until a
private sewage disposal system installation permit or other written approval
shall be obtained from the health department.
      2.   All private sewage disposal systems within the limits of the county
shall be constructed, installed, approved, modified or maintained by an
individual with a valid private sewage disposal system installation
contractor's license; and all such systems shall be pumped, cleaned, and the
contents disposed of by individuals with a valid private sewage disposal system
pumping contractor's license; provided, however, that a homeowner may install
and/or service a private sewage disposal system which serves his own personal
single-family residence.
      3.   All septic tanks and/or aerobic units manufactured, sold, offered
for sale, or delivered in the county shall comply with provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Performance Requirements:
      1.   An approved effluent filter shall be installed between any
conventional septic tank and the septic field/sand filter. It shall be required
as part of the plan for a septic permit. Such filter may also function as the
outlet baffle. A riser must be in place for proper inspection and maintenance
of the effluent filter. An approved riser would be a concrete riser or a
plastic riser pipe which is large enough in diameter to effectively gain access
to the effluent filter. Riser must be either concrete or plastic that is
completely secured. A riser pipe must be constructed of a material that is
approved by the health department, joined by means of a screw thread to the
opening of the pipe, and of a diameter that allows for maintenance of the
effluent filter. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
      2.   Sand filters must have sidewalls and bottoms that are lined with an
impervious liner. The liner bottom shall be protected from protruding rocks.
Soils under a sand filter, and sidewalls, shall not have any rocks protruding
more than one inch (1"). The liner top shall be protected from the first layer
of placed aggregate. Liner placement, seaming and patching shall meet
manufacturers' recommendations. A lined, buried sand filter may be installed
with a one-fourth (1/4) reduction to the subsurface drainfield size. (Ord.
2013-02, 5-14-2013)
      3.   On raised drainfields, where fill material is used for covering the
drainfield, fill soils must be approved for use by the department, and
inspections of site preparation and fill soils placement may be required prior
to installation of trenches.
      4.   Curtain drain construction, when required, shall be installed
according to accepted engineering practices and any specifications on the soil
boring report. Department personnel, prior to the covering of the work, must
inspect curtain drain installations.
      5.   Dosing siphons or wastewater pumps shall be used to feed sand
filters serving wastewater design flows of over one thousand (1,000) gallons
per day.
      6.   On systems that require pumps, all force mains are to go around the
subsurface drainfield area. Only in circumstances where the lot has size
barriers shall the force main go over the drainfield. If there are size
limitations on a lot, the health department is to be contacted prior to
installation, and approval must be granted before construction begins.
      7.   Where sewer lines must cross over water lines, all provisions set
forth in the private sewage disposal licensing act and code must be followed. A
minimum of a ten foot (10') section of schedule 40 or a thicker walled plastic
pipe must be placed over the sewer line. The sewer line sleeve must be at least
six inches (6") in diameter.
      8.   In new construction situations where any part of a sewer or effluent
line goes under a driveway or any area that has vehicle traffic, a section of
schedule 40 or thicker walled plastic pipe must be placed over the entire
length of the sewer/effluent line that will be under the driveway or parking
area, etc. The line sleeve must be at least six inches (6") in diameter.
      9.   Surface discharge shall be prohibited. There shall be no discharge
of raw or improperly treated domestic sewage to the surface of the ground or to
farm tiles, streams, rivers, ponds, lakes, or other collectors of water.
"Improperly treated domestic sewage" is sewage that does not meet the effluent
requirements as stated in the current, unabridged form of the state department
of public health "private sewage disposal licensing act and code" or sewage
which comes directly from a septic tank or building sewer. Domestic sewage or
effluent from any private sewage disposal system or component shall not be
discharged into any well, cistern or basement or into any underground mine,
cave, sinkhole or tunnel.
   C.   Evaluations And Inspections:
      1.   At the request of a homeowner or the homeowner's representative, the
health department shall conduct a visual sanitary evaluation of a property in
order to determine general compliance with this chapter. The health department
shall charge a fee for this service. The fee shall be in accordance with the
county's fee schedule.
      2.   The health authority shall have the authority to enter any property
at any reasonable time for inspection purposes to determine compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of a
property to allow the health authority free access to the property for
inspection purposes to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-10: SEPARATE SYSTEMS REQUIRED FOR GARAGES, OUTBUILDINGS AND ACCESSORY
BUILDINGS:
Any garage, outbuilding, accessory building or similar structures that have
interior plumbing must have an increase in septic tank capacity and drainfield
size to accommodate the daily flow that is anticipated from the house and the
extra structure. The type and size of the septic system will be determined by
soil characteristics revealed in the on site soil borings. If an alternative
septic system (e.g., sand filter) is required, then an increase in size of this
component will be required. (Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
5-8-11: FEES:
A fee shall be charged, in the amount set by the Jo Daviess County board of
health and approved by resolution of the Jo Daviess County board, to the
licensed contractor or homeowner for the initial installation permit, and there
shall be a fee charged, in the amount set by the Jo Daviess County board of
health and approved by resolution of the Jo Daviess County board, for any
repair performed on an existing private sewage disposal system. The fee shall
be collected by the health department at the time an application for a permit
is submitted, and shall be deposited into the health department fund. (Ord.
2010-7, 10-12-2010)
5-8-12: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; OFFENSIVE CONDITIONS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge untreated sewage or the effluent from any
septic tank directly or indirectly to any stream, ditch, ground surface,
sinkhole or abandoned well, or to allow the contents of any privy vault, septic
tank or seepage pit to emit offensive odors, to become objectionable,
dangerous, or prejudicial to the public health. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-13: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Existing Systems:
      1.   Inspections To Determine Compliance: Private sewage disposal systems
constructed prior to the effective date hereof shall comply with any provision
of this chapter deemed necessary by the health authority.
      2.   Entry Powers: The board of health or its authorized representative
is hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to
determine satisfactory compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Installation Inspection:
      1.   No private sewage disposal system installed in the county shall be
covered or placed in operation until the said installation shall have been
inspected and written approval of the said system shall have been issued by the
health department.
      2.   If any person who installs a private sewage disposal system shall
backfill any portion of the said system and/or cover the same with earth,
cinders, gravel, shale, or any other material which will prevent the same from
being readily viewed to determine if the said system meets all requirements of
this chapter before receipt of written approval by the health department, the
health department may give fifteen (15) days' notice in writing to such person
so violating the provision of this chapter, to uncover such backfilled or
covered portions of the system.
      3.   If, at the end of such fifteen (15) days, the person shall not have
uncovered the individual sewage disposal system, the permit is automatically
invalidated and penalty action may be taken. The health authority may elect to
have the system uncovered at the expense of the homeowner. Failure of the
homeowner to pay such costs within thirty (30) days shall result in execution
of a lien against the property. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-14: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Whenever the health department determines that a violation of any
provision of this chapter has occurred, the health department shall give notice
to the person responsible for such violation. This notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for issuance of the notice;
      3.   Allow reasonable time as determined by the health department for
performance of any act required;
      4.   Be served upon the person responsible for the violation(s);
provided, that such notice shall have been properly served upon the person
responsible for the violations when a copy thereof has been sent by registered
or certified mail to his last known address as furnished to the health
department or when he has been served with such notice by any other method
authorized by laws of the state; and
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action which is required to effect
compliance with this chapter.
   B.   It shall not be a prerequisite to enforcement of the penalty provisions
of this chapter that the health department first resort to the notice procedure
set forth in section
5-8-9 of this chapter. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-15: HEARINGS:
   A.   Health Authority:
      1.   Request Filed: Any person affected by an order or notice issued by
the health department in connection with the enforcement of any section of this
chapter may file, in the office of the health department, a written request for
a hearing before the health authority.
      2.   Time And Place Of Hearing: The health authority shall hold a hearing
at a time and place designated by the health department within thirty (30) days
from the date on which the written request was filed.
      3.   Notice: The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time
and place of the hearing not less than five (5) days prior to the date on which
the hearing is to be held.
      4.   Decisions:
         a.   If, as a result of the hearing, the health authority finds that
strict compliance with the order or notice would cause undue hardship on the
petitioner, and that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by varying or withdrawing the order or notice, the
health authority may modify or withdraw the order or notice and, as a condition
for such action, may, where he deems it necessary, make requirements which are
additional to those prescribed in this chapter for the purpose of properly
protecting the public health.
         b.   The health authority shall render a decision within ten (10) days
after the date of the hearing, which shall be reduced to writing and placed on
file in the office of the health department as a matter of public record.
      5.   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by the decision of the health authority
may seek relief therefrom through a hearing before the board of health
environmental health committee.
   B.   Board Of Health Environmental Health Committee:
      1.   Request Filed; Time For Hearing: Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the health authority rendered as the result of a hearing held in
accordance with this section may file within five (5) days, in the office of
the health department, a written request for a hearing at a time and place
designated by the secretary of the board of health within thirty (30) days of
the date on which the written request was filed.
      2.   Notice: The petitioner for the hearing shall be notified of the time
and place of the hearing not less than five (5) days prior to the date on which
the hearing is to be held.
      3.   Decisions:
         a.   If, as a result of fact elicited as a result of the environmental
health committee hearing, the board of health finds that strict compliance with
the decision of the health authority would cause undue hardship on the
petitioner, and that the public health would be adequately protected and
substantial justice done by granting a variance from the decision of the
administrator or acting administrator, the board of health environmental health
committee may grant a variance and, as a condition of such variance, may, where
it deems necessary, make requirements which are additional to those prescribed
by this chapter, all for the purpose of properly protecting the public health.
         b.   The board of health environmental health committee will render a
decision within ten (10) days after the date of the hearing, which shall be
reduced to writing and placed on file in the office of the health department,
and a copy thereof shall be served on the petitioner personally or by delivery
to the petitioner by certified mail. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-16: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES; DISPOSITION OF FINES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class A misdemeanor and shall be fined a sum of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00). Each day's violation constitutes a separate offense. The
state's attorney of the county shall bring such actions in the name of the
people of the state of Illinois or may bring action for an injunction to
restrain such violation or to enjoin the operation of any such establishment
causing such violation. All monies collected from fines under this chapter
shall be deposited to the county health department fund. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
5-8-17: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any zoning, building, fire safety, or health ordinance or code in
the county existing on the effective date hereof, the provision which, in the
judgment of the health authority, establishes the higher standard for the
promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall prevail.
In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a
provision of any other ordinance or code of the county existing on the
effective date hereof which establishes a lower standard for the promotion and
protection of the health and safety of the people, the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are
hereby declared to be repealed to the extent that they may be found in conflict
with this chapter. (Ord., 4-7-2008)
ARTICLE A. DISPOSAL OF DOMESTIC SEPTAGE
SECTION:
5-8A-1: Purpose
5-8A-2: State Regulations Adopted
5-8A-3: Definitions
5-8A-4: Methods Of Domestic Septage Disposal
5-8A-5: Agricultural Land
5-8A-5-1: Application To Agricultural Land
5-8A-5-2: Recordkeeping Requirements For Domestic Septage Application To
Agricultural Land
5-8A-5-3: Site Approval And Inspection Of Domestic Septage Land Application
Sites
5-8A-6: Recordkeeping Requirements For Domestic Septage Disposal
5-8A-1: PURPOSE:
This article regulates the methods of domestic septage disposal, setback
distances, recordkeeping, site approval and inspection within the county. (Ord.
2016-1, 1-12-2016)
5-8A-2: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
This article shall be adopted by reference and shall be interpreted and
enforced in accordance with provisions set forth in the current, unabridged
form of the state department of public health private sewage disposal licensing
act and code; federal EPA 40 CFR part 503 and any subsequent amendments or
revisions thereto, three (3) certified copies of which shall be on file in the
office of the county clerk. (Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
5-8A-3: DEFINITIONS:
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE: The legally designated administrator or the acting
administrator of the Jo Daviess County health department and shall include
those persons designated by the administrator or acting administrator to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
BOARD OF HEALTH: The Jo Daviess County board of health or its authorized
representative(s).
DOMESTIC SEPTAGE: Liquid or solid material removed from a septic tank or
similar system that receives only household, noncommercial, nonindustrial waste
as defined in 40 CFR part 503.
DRY RUN: Drainage pathway, either natural or artificial, with definable banks
which contains a confined flow during periods of runoff.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The person or persons who have been designated by the board
of health to administer the affairs of the health department.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Jo Daviess County public health department, an agency of
the Jo Daviess County board of health.
NUISANCE CONDITION: Creates an offensive odor, or which produces a stagnant wet
area, or which produces an environment for the breeding of insects.
PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY: Gathering of fifty (50) or more persons for
deliberation, worship, entertainment, eating, drinking, amusement, awaiting
transportation, or similar uses.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PUMPING CONTRACTOR: Any person who cleans or
pumps waste from a private sewage disposal system or hauls or disposes of waste
removed therefrom. (Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
5-8A-4: METHODS OF DOMESTIC SEPTAGE DISPOSAL:
Methods of domestic septage disposal approved by the health authority are:
   A.   Discharge to a municipal sanitary sewer system that is approved by the
Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA).
   B.   Discharge to sludge lagoon or sludge drying bed that is approved by the
IEPA.
   C.   Discharge to an incinerator device that is approved by the IEPA.
   D.   Discharge to sanitary landfill that is approved by the IEPA.
   E.   Application to agricultural land. (Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
5-8A-5: AGRICULTURAL LAND:
5-8A-5-1: APPLICATION TO AGRICULTURAL LAND:
If applying domestic septage to agricultural land the following criteria must
be met:
   A.   Only domestic septage can be land applied. Grease trap wastes,
commercial or industrial septage, and nondomestic septage shall not be land
applied.
   B.   Domestic septage shall only be applied on nonpublic sites including
agricultural land, forests, and reclamation sites.
   C.   A vector attraction reduction alternative must be met by one of the
following methods:
      1.   Domestic septage shall be injected below the surface of the land and
no significant amount of the domestic septage shall be present on the land
surface within one hour after the domestic septage is injected.
      2.   Domestic septage applied to the land surface shall be incorporated
into the soil surface plow layer within six (6) hours after application.
   D.   A pathogen reduction alternative shall meet the following crop,
grazing, and site restrictions:
      1.   Crop Restrictions:
         a.   Food crops with harvested parts that touch the septage/soil
mixture and are totally above the ground shall not be harvested for fourteen
(14) months after final application of domestic septage.
         b.   Domestic septage must not be applied to land that is intended to
grow root vegetables or low growing fruits or vegetables that may be eaten raw.
         c.   Animal feed, fiber, and those crops that do not touch the soil
surface shall not be harvested for thirty (30) days after final application of
the domestic septage.
         d.   Turf grown on land where domestic septage is applied shall not be
harvested for one year after final application of the domestic septage when the
harvest turf is placed on either a lawn or land with a high potential of public
exposure.
      2.   Grazing Restrictions:
         a.   Animals shall not be allowed to graze on the land for thirty (30)
days after final application of domestic septage.
      3.   Site Restrictions:
         a.   Public access to the site shall be restricted for thirty (30)
days after application of domestic septage. Examples of restricted access
include remoteness of site, posting of no trespassing signs, and/or simple
fencing.
   E.   Domestic septage shall not be applied to land that is within:
      1.   One thousand feet (1,000') of community well, school, healthcare
facility.
      2.   Four hundred feet (400') of a private water well, residence,
business, or place of assembly.
      3.   Two hundred feet (200') of a sinkhole, underground mine, cave,
tunnel, tile line surface intake, pond, stream, river, or wetland.
      4.   One hundred feet (100') of a dry run or public road.
   F.   Domestic septage shall not be applied to land that is at or below the
base flood elevation as delineated on the most recent 100-year flood profiles
in the countywide flood insurance study of Jo Daviess County prepared by the
federal emergency management agency or most recent countywide flood insurance
rate map of Jo Daviess County.
   G.   Domestic septage shall not be applied to land in excess of the
application rate established in 40 CFR 503. Annual application rate (AAR) for
the desired crop must be established prior to land application of domestic
septage. Domestic septage must be spread evenly throughout the acreage approved
by the health authority.
   H.   The application rate shall be limited by soil characteristics but under
no conditions may it exceed fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons of domestic
septage per acre per week.
   I.   A crop capable of using the nitrogen applied must be grown and
harvested from the site after application of the maximum annual allocation or,
at a minimum, every third year.
   J.   If land application is discontinued or maximum annual allocation has
been reached, crops must be grown or the site must be revegetated with grass or
other appropriate cover.
   K.   Application of domestic septage to frozen and/or snow covered ground is
not permitted.
   L.   Each load of domestic septage shall be screened to remove all litter/
debris that is not beneficial in the fertilization of crops. Screened items
must be disposed of in an approved manner and not create a nuisance condition,
as applicable to this article. (Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
5-8A-5-2: RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS FOR DOMESTIC SEPTAGE APPLICATION TO
AGRICULTURAL LAND:
When domestic septage is applied to land, the person who applies the septage
shall develop the following information in addition to the records required in
section
5-8A-6 of this article and shall retain the information for five (5) years.
This information shall be submitted to the health authority for approval prior
to all land application of domestic septage on a form supplied by the health
authority.
   A.   The location, by either street address or latitude and longitude, of
each site on which domestic septage will be applied.
   B.   Precise application area in each site on which domestic septage will be
applied.
   C.   The gallons of domestic septage to be applied.
   D.   The total gallons applied at each site to date for the year.
   E.   The proposed date and time domestic septage will be applied to each
site.
   F.   The total number of allowed gallons per acre at which domestic septage
will be applied to site.
   G.   A description of how the vector attraction reduction alternative
requirements will be met.
   H.   The following certification statement shall be signed and provided with
the records when the records are submitted to the health authority:
I certify, under penalty of law, that the pathogen requirements and the vector
attraction reduction requirements have been met. This determination has been
made under my direction and supervision in accordance with the system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluation the
information used to determine that the pathogen requirements and the vector
attraction reduction requirements have been met. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for false certification, including the possibility of
fine or imprisonment.
(Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
5-8A-5-3: SITE APPROVAL AND INSPECTION OF DOMESTIC SEPTAGE LAND APPLICATION
SITES:
Approval of the land application site shall be made by the health authority
prior to its use.
   A.   Criteria Met: The following criteria must be met for the application
site to be approved:
      1.   The depth to the groundwater table or to fractured limestone
formation is at least four feet (4') below the ground surface. A thorough soil
evaluation of the land application site shall be required.
      2.   Domestic septage shall not be applied to land that has been
saturated by rainfall during the twenty four (24) hour period before the
intended application time.
      3.   Domestic septage shall not be applied to land with water ponded upon
it.
      4.   Domestic septage shall not be applied to land having greater than
five percent (5%) slope.
      5.   Domestic septage shall be applied to land from a vehicle moving at
least one mile per hour. The vehicle shall have a splash plate or some other
method or device approved by the health authority to facilitate uniform septage
application.
   B.   Sites Inspected Annually: All application sites of domestic septage
shall be inspected annually, or as often as deemed necessary by the health
authority to ensure that the site meets the requirements for domestic septage
disposal.
   C.   Notice Of Septage Disposal Site: All private sewage disposal system
pumping contractors who land apply domestic septage must submit notification of
septage disposal sites annually to the health department. The notification
shall include: township, range and section with a description to the nearest
one-fourth (1/4) section; name and address of owner of property; purpose for
which disposal site is otherwise used such as pasture, grain crops, mowing
crops or timber; and anticipated yield of crop.
   D.   Entry Powers: The board of health or its authorized representative is
hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to
determine satisfactory compliance with this article. (Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
5-8A-6: RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS FOR DOMESTIC SEPTAGE DISPOSAL:
All persons who hold a private sewage disposal system pumping contractor's
license shall record and make available to the health department on a monthly
basis the following information on pumped septic tanks:
   A.   Name of owner of tank pumped.
   B.   Location of property.
   C.   Date of pumping.
   D.   Size of septic tank/number of gallons pumped.
   E.   Condition of septic tank and baffles.
   F.   Rough sketch of location of septic tank on property.
   G.   Septage disposal location. (Ord. 2016-1, 1-12-2016)
CHAPTER 9
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
5-9-1: Purpose
5-9-2: Definitions
5-9-3: Prohibited Discharges
5-9-4: Disposal Of Hazardous Materials
5-9-5: Storage Of Hazardous Materials
5-9-6: Disclosure Requirements
5-9-7: Hazardous Materials Response Team
5-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promulgate rules and regulations for the use,
storage, manufacturing and clean up of hazardous materials within the county.
(Ord., 6-3-1996)
5-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section:
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: A substance or material in a quantity and form which has
been determined by the United States department of transportation to be capable
of posing an unreasonable risk to health and safety or property.
PERSON: Any natural person or individual, governmental body, firm, association,
partnership, copartnership, joint venture, company, corporation, joint stock
company, trust, estate, or any other legal entity or their representative,
agent or assigns.
TOXIC SUBSTANCE: Any substance, mixture, or compound containing a substance
which is listed in:
   A.   The code of federal regulations, 29, CFR 1910.1000 through 29 CFR
1910.1500 inclusive.
   B.   A list of toxic substances promulgated by the Illinois environmental
protection agency pursuant to 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 85/4.
   C.   The United States department of health and human services, public
health service national toxicology program, second annual report on
carcinogens, December 1981 and its periodic updates. (Ord., 6-3-1996; amd. 2009
Code)
5-9-3: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: The actual or threatened discharge of hazardous
materials within the county is hereby declared a nuisance.
   B.   Liability For Nuisance Abatement: Any person who owns, leases, operates
or controls any facility, equipment, or vehicles from which a discharge of
hazardous materials or toxic substances has occurred or is threatened to occur,
shall be liable to the county for any expense incurred by the county in
connection with preventing, cleaning up, or disposing of or attempting to
prevent, clean up, or dispose of any such discharge or threatened discharge.
(Ord., 6-3-1996)
5-9-4: DISPOSAL OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Compliance With State And Federal Requirements: It shall be unlawful
for any person to dispose of hazardous materials within the county, unless such
disposal is conducted in accordance with applicable state and federal rules and
regulations pertaining to the disposal of such materials.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: The unlawful disposal of hazardous materials within
the county is hereby declared a nuisance.
   C.   Liability For Nuisance Abatement: Any person who engages in the
unlawful disposal of hazardous materials shall be liable to the county for any
and all expenses incurred by the county in connection with cleaning up and
lawfully disposing of said materials. (Ord., 6-3-1996)
   D.   Penalty: In addition to the liability imposed by subsection C of this
section, any person who unlawfully disposes of hazardous materials within the
county shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 6-3-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
5-9-5: STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
   A.   Compliance With State Requirements: Every person who stores hazardous
materials at any location within the county shall store such materials in
accordance with the requirements established for such storage by the fire
prevention regulations of the state of Illinois. (Ord., 6-3-1996)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a person is deemed in violation of this
section shall constitute a separate offense which, upon conviction, shall
subject the person to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense. (Ord., 6-3-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
5-9-6: DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Disclosure Of Information: Every person who uses, produces or stores
hazardous materials or toxic substances at a location within the county shall
provide the county sheriff's department with all information concerning the
use, production, and storage of such materials which such person is required to
provide to a local fire department under all governing laws and regulations
enacted or promulgated from time to time by either the United States of America
or the state of Illinois and departments thereof. (Ord., 6-3-1996)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall,
upon conviction, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a person is deemed in violation of this
section shall constitute a separate offense which, upon conviction, shall
subject the person to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense. (Ord., 6-3-1996; amd. 2009 Code)
5-9-7: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE TEAM:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known and may be cited as the
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE TEAM ORDINANCE OF JO DAVIESS COUNTY.
   B.   Response Team Created: There is hereby created the county hazardous
materials response team to assist local fire departments and law enforcement
agencies in their efforts to prevent, minimize, contain, control, and clean up
any hazardous materials resulting from the misuse, improper storage or spillage
of such materials.
   C.   Composition; Director: The hazardous materials response team shall
consist of volunteers from each of the local fire departments and law
enforcement agencies within the county. The team shall designate one of their
members as the team director to oversee the team's operations.
   D.   Compensation: Members of the hazardous materials response team shall
not receive any compensation from the county for the services they perform as
part of the team.
   E.   Functions And Authority Generally: The hazardous materials response
team shall perform such services as may be required, at the request of the
county sheriff, in response to any situation within the county involving the
misuse, improper storage or spillage of any hazardous materials within the
county causing or threatening damage to the health, safety or welfare of any
persons or property and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the
corporate limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with
any other political subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered
into as provided by law.
   F.   Mutual Aid Agreements: The sheriff and director of the hazardous
materials response team may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other counties
or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the county board.
   G.   Purchases And Expenditures: The county board may, on the recommendation
of the director of the hazardous materials response team, authorize the
purchase of equipment, execution of contracts or payment of training expenses
necessary to allow the hazardous materials response team to carry out its
function and duties to protect the citizens and property of the county. Any
property purchased on behalf of the hazardous materials response team shall be
titled in the name of the county. (Ord., 9-10-1996)
ARTICLE A. SIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
5-9A-1: Title
5-9A-2: Signs Required
5-9A-3: Threshold Requirements
5-9A-4: Facility Closure Plan; Sign Removal Required
5-9A-5: Penalty
5-9A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known, cited and referred to as the HAZARDOUS SIGNAGE
SYSTEM ORDINANCE. (Ord., 12-9-2003)
5-9A-2: SIGNS REQUIRED:
Subject to the threshold requirements established in section
5-9A-3 of this article, visible hazard identification signs as specified in
NFPA 704M shall be placed at all entrances to locations where hazardous
materials are stored, dispensed, used or handled in quantities specified.
Stationary tanks shall be placarded with hazard identification signs in
accordance with NFPA 704. (Ord., 12-9-2003)
5-9A-3: THRESHOLD REQUIREMENTS:
The threshold amounts at and above which the identification signs referred to
in section
5-9A-2 of this article shall be required are as follows:
   A.   Aerosol Products:
      1.   A net weight of one thousand (1,000) pounds of level 2 aerosol.
      2.   A net weight of five hundred (500) pounds of level 3 aerosol.
      3.   A combined weight of one thousand (1,000) pounds of level 2 and 3
aerosol products.
   B.   Cellulose Nitrate (Pyroxylin) Plastics: A net weight of twenty five
(25) pounds.
   C.   Combustible Fibers: A quantity exceeding one hundred (100) cubic feet.
   D.   Compressed Gases:
      1.   Seven hundred fifty (750) cubic feet of flammable or compressed gas.
      2.   Thirty (30) gallons of liquefied flammable gas.
      3.   Eight hundred ten (810) cubic feet of corrosive gas.
      4.   Six thousand (6,000) cubic feet of gas.
      5.   Fifteen (15) gallons of liquefied oxidizing gas.
      6.   Any quantity of highly toxic or toxic, pyrophoric, irritant,
sensitizer or other health hazard compressed gas.
   E.   Liquid And Solid Corrosive Materials: One thousand (1,000) pounds of
solids liquids.
   F.   Cryogenic Liquids:
      1.   A quantity of nonflammable, nontoxic cryogenic liquids greater than
five hundred (500) gallons.
      2.   A quantity of more than ten (10) gallons of liquid oxygen, flammable
cryogenic liquid or cryogenic oxidizers.
   G.   Explosives, Ammunition And Blasting Agents: Any quantity of explosives,
ammunition and blasting agents.
   H.   Fireworks: Any quantity of "fireworks", as defined in section 2 of the
fireworks regulation act of Illinois, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 30/2, as
currently existing or hereinafter amended.
   I.   Flammable And Combustible Liquids:
      1.   For the storage, handling or use of class I liquids exceeding five
(5) gallons in any institutional or residential occupancy, or exceeding ten
(10) gallons in any other occupancy, or exceeding sixty (60) gallons outside of
any building; except, that marking shall not be required for the following
purposes:
         a.   For the storage or use of flammable liquids in the fuel tank of a
motor vehicle, aircraft, motorboat, mobile power plant or mobile heating plant.
         b.   For the storage or use of paints, oils, varnishes or similar
mixtures when such liquids are stored for painting, maintenance, or similar
purposes on the premises and are not stored for a period exceeding thirty (30)
days.
      2.   Marking will be required for the storage and handling of class II
combustible liquids or class III combustible liquids exceeding twenty five (25)
gallons in a structure or exceeding sixty (60) gallons outside of a structure,
except for fuel oil utilized in connection with oil burning equipment in
single-family residential occupancies.
      3.   For the manufacture, processing, blending or refining of flammable
or combustible liquids.
      4.   For the storage of flammable or combustible liquids in stationary
tanks.
      5.   For any structure utilized for servicing or repairing a motor
vehicle therein.
   J.   Flammable Solids: A net weight of one hundred twenty five (125) pounds.
   K.   Liquid And Solid Highly Toxic And Toxic Materials:
      1.   Highly toxic materials in any quantity.
      2.   Toxic materials exceeding five hundred (500) pounds of solids or
fifty (50) gallons of liquids.
   L.   Liquid And Solid Irritants, Sensitizers And Other Health Hazards:
Irritants, sensitizers or other health hazard materials exceeding one thousand
(1,000) pounds of solids and one hundred (100) gallons of liquids.
   M.   Liquefied Petroleum Gases: Liquefied petroleum gas utilizing storage
containers exceeding thirty (30) gallons' individual water capacity, and where
the combined container quantity exceeds sixty (60) gallons regardless of
individual container size. Marking is not required for individual containers of
less than five hundred (500) gallons' water capacity serving occupancies
including all buildings arranged for occupancy as one- or two-family dwelling
units including not more than five (5) lodgers or boarders per family and
multiple single-family dwellings where the unit has an independent means of
egress and is separated by a two (2) hour fire separation assembly.
   N.   Liquid And Solid Organic Peroxides: Any quantity of unclassified
detonatable class I or II organic peroxides and more than twenty five (25)
pounds of class III organic peroxides.
   O.   Liquid And Solid Oxidizers: Any quantity of class 3 and 4 oxidizers;
more than fifty (50) pounds of class 2 oxidizers; and more than two hundred
(200) pounds of class 1 oxidizers.
   P.   Pesticide Display And Storage:
      1.   Inside and outside storage of all forms of class I and II pesticides
in portable containers. Class I and II pesticides are identified by the signal
words "Poison," "Danger-Poison" or "Danger" printed on the container.
      2.   The following are exceptions to subsection P1 of this section:
         a.   Storage in dwellings or private garages of pesticides registered
by the U.S. environmental protection agency to be utilized in and around the
home, garden, pool, spa and patio.
         b.   Transportation of pesticides in compliance with the federal
hazardous materials transportation act (HMTA) and regulations thereunder.
   Q.   Liquid And Solid Pyrophoric Materials: Any amount of liquid or solid
pyrophoric materials.
   R.   Radioactive Materials: Any amount of radioactive material capable of
emitting a short term radiation exposure greater than five (5) rem whole body
dose, including both sealed and unsealed radioactive sources.
   S.   Liquid And Solid Unstable (Reactive) Materials:
      1.   Any quantity of class 3 or 4 unstable (reactive) materials.
      2.   More than ten (10) pounds of class 2 unstable (reactive) materials.
   T.   Liquid And Solid Water Reactive Materials:
      1.   Any quantity of class 3 water reactive materials.
      2.   One hundred (100) pounds of solid and ten (10) gallons of liquid
class 2 water reactive materials. (Ord., 12-9-2003)
5-9A-4: FACILITY CLOSURE PLAN; SIGN REMOVAL REQUIRED:
A plan shall be submitted to the local emergency planning committee and fire
district to terminate storage, dispensing, handling or use of hazardous
materials at least thirty (30) days prior to facility closure. The plan shall
be approved and demonstrate that hazardous materials stored, dispensed, handled
or used in the facility have been transported, disposed of or reused in a
manner eliminating the need for further maintenance and any threat to public
health and safety. After approval of the plan, all visible hazard
identification signs required by this article will be removed. (Ord., 12-9-
2003)
5-9A-5: PENALTY:
Violators of this article shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 12-9-2003; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 10
UNDERGROUND PETROLEUM CONTAINERS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Compliance With Provisions
5-10-2: Specifications
5-10-3: Installation Requirements
5-10-4: Notice To Fire Protection District
5-10-5: Cessation Of Regular Use; Removal Required
5-10-6: Violation; Penalties
5-10-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall cause any liquefied petroleum
container or tank to be placed partially or completely underground in any
unincorporated area of the county unless the said liquefied petroleum container
shall be equipped in conformity with this chapter. (1977 Code ch. 18 § 1)
   B.   No person, firm or corporation shall deliver any liquefied petroleum
into any container which is placed partially or completely underground in any
unincorporated area of the county unless the said liquefied petroleum container
shall be equipped in conformity with this chapter. (1977 Code ch. 18 § 2)
5-10-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Required Equipment: Every liquefied petroleum tank or container which
is placed partially or completely underground in any unincorporated area of the
county shall be equipped as follows:
      1.   Signs:
         a.   Description: Each tank and container location shall be marked
with a plainly visible sign thereon, measuring eight inches by four inches (8"
x 4"), being yellow in color, and having black lettering as follows:
            (1)   "LP" in letters two inches (2") high; and
            (2)   "TANK" in letters one inch (1") high.
         b.   Location: The signs referred to in this subsection A1 shall be
located not more than four feet (4') from the tank and shall be four feet (4')
from the ground.
      2.   Shutoff Valve: The tank/container shall be equipped with an
accessible one-quarter turn shutoff valve installed on the high pressure side
of the house regulator. (1977 Code ch. 18 § 3)
   B.   Information Required On Tank: Tank/containers as defined in subsection
A of this section shall be marked in accordance with this subsection. The
markings specified shall be on a metal nameplate attached to the container, so
located as to remain visible after the container is installed. The nameplate
shall be attached in such a way that corrosion of either the nameplate or the
container will be minimized.
      1.   Service for which the container is designed, i.e., underground,
aboveground, or both.
      2.   Name and address of container supplier or trade name of container.
      3.   Water capacity of container in pounds or U.S. gallons.
      4.   Design pressure in psig. (1977 Code ch. 18 § 6)
      5.   The wording "This container shall not contain a product having a
vapor pressure in excess of 250 psig at 100°F". (1977 Code ch. 18 § 6; amd.
2009 Code)
      6.   Tare weight of container fitted for service for containers to be
filled by weight.
      7.   Outside surface area in square feet.
      8.   Year of manufacture.
      9.   Shell thickness            head thickness.
      10.   OL           OD           HD          .
      11.   Manufacturer's serial number.
      12.   ASME code symbol. (1977 Code ch. 18 § 6)
5-10-3: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   ASME container assemblies or container systems listed for underground
installation, or container assemblies listed for interchangeable aboveground-
underground service, may be installed underground only as follows:
      1.   The top of the container shall be at least six inches (6") (152 mm)
below grade, unless the container might be subject to abrasive action or
physical damage from vehicular traffic or from other causes such as in LP-gas
service stations. In this case, it shall be placed not less than two feet (2')
(610 mm) below grade or equivalent protection shall be otherwise provided (such
as by the use of a concrete slab) to prevent imposing the weight of a loaded
vehicle directly on the container shell.
      2.   The portion of the container to which the manhole or other
connections are attached need not be covered. However, where necessary,
protection of the manhole and other connections against vehicular traffic
damage shall be provided. When there is the possibility of a manhole or housing
becoming flooded, the discharge from the regulator vent lines shall be above
the highest probable water level.
      3.   Containers shall be protected against corrosion for the soil
conditions at the container site by a method in accordance with engineering
practice. Precaution shall be taken to prevent damage to the coating during
handling. Any damage to the coating shall be repaired before backfilling.
      4.   Containers shall be set substantially level on a firm foundation
(firm earth may be used) and surrounded by earth or sand firmly tamped in
place. Backfill shall be free of rocks or similar abrasives.
      5.   When a container is to be abandoned underground, the following
procedure shall be followed.
         a.   Remove as much liquid LP gas as possible through the container
liquid withdrawal connection.
         b.   Remove as much of the remaining LP gas vapor as possible by
venting it through a vapor connection; either burning this vapor or venting it
to the open air at a safe location. The vapor shall not be vented at such a
rapid rate as to exceed the vaporization rate of any residual liquid LP gas
left after the liquid removal procedure of subsection A5a of this section.
         c.   When only vapor LP gas at atmospheric pressure remains in the
container, it shall be filled with water, sand or foamed plastic or purged with
an inert gas. The displaced vapor may be burned or vented to the open air at a
safe location.
   B.   Partially underground, unmounded ASME containers shall be installed as
follows:
      1.   The portion of the container below the surface and for a vertical
distance of at least three inches (3") (75 mm) above the surface shall be
protected to resist corrosion as required for underground containers. (See
subsection A3 of this section.)
      2.   Containers shall be set substantially level on a firm foundation,
with backfilling to be as required for underground containers. (See subsection
A of this section.) (1977 Code ch. 18 § 7)
      3.   Spacing provisions for aboveground containers shall be as specified
by the Illinois state fire marshal. (1977 Code ch. 18 § 7; amd. 2009 Code)
      4.   The container shall be located so as not to be subject to vehicular
damage or shall be adequately protected against such damage. (1977 Code ch. 18
§ 7)
5-10-4: NOTICE TO FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT:
Each property owner having a tank/container described in subsection 5-10-2A of
this chapter located upon his property shall, within forty five (45) days of
the adoption of this chapter or within forty five (45) days after the
installation of such tank/container, whichever occurs later, notify his fire
protection district, in writing, of the existence of such tank/container and
its location upon the premises. (1977 Code ch. 18 § 4)
5-10-5: CESSATION OF REGULAR USE; REMOVAL REQUIRED:
Every property owner having a tank/container described in subsection 5-10-2A of
this chapter shall, if the tank/container shall not be in use regularly and
continuously, remove the tank/container within six (6) months of the date on
which the tank/container ceased to be regularly and continuously used. (1977
Code ch. 18 § 5)
5-10-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor. In addition to the penalties
aforesaid, the county may, in its name, apply to the circuit court for issuance
of an injunction, mandatory or otherwise, to secure compliance herewith. (1977
Code ch. 18 § 8)
CHAPTER 11
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-11-1: Definitions
5-11-2: Prohibitions
5-11-3: Explosive Wastes
5-11-4: Enforcement
5-11-5: Exemptions
5-11-6: Penalties
5-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
All terms which appear in this chapter have the definitions specified as
follows:
AGRICULTURAL WASTES: Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated on
a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices including such items
as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and crop residues but
excluding landscape wastes.
CLEAN WOOD BUILDING DEBRIS: The wooden remains of a building. The term excludes
rubber, asphalt and nonwooden materials.
DISASTER: A major disaster declared by the president of the United States or
the governor of Illinois.
DISASTER AREA: Area in which a major disaster has been declared by the
president of the United States or the governor of Illinois.
DOMICILE WASTE: Any refuse generated on single-family domiciliary property as a
result of domiciliary activities. The term excludes landscape waste, garbage
and trade waste.
GARBAGE: Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food or food products.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage and agricultural
waste. The term includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds,
leaves, grass, shrubbery and yard trimmings.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products of
the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through equipment for which a permit could be issued under section 9 of the
environmental protection act, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9.
REFUSE: Any discarded matter, or any matter which is to be reduced in volume,
or otherwise changed in chemical or physical properties, in order to facilitate
its discard, removal or disposal.
RESTRICTED AREAS: The area within the boundaries of any "municipality" as
defined in the Illinois municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1-2,
plus a zone extending one mile beyond the boundaries of any such municipality
having a population of one thousand (1,000) or more according to the latest
federal census.
TRADE WASTE: Any refuse resulting from the prosecution of any trade, business,
industry, commercial venture, utility or service activity, and any government
or institutional activity, whether or not for profit. The term includes
landscape waste but excludes agricultural waste. (Ord., 5-13-2008)
5-11-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as provided in this
chapter.
   B.   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any chamber
or apparatus, unless such chamber or apparatus is designed for the purpose of
disposing of the class of refuse being burned.
   C.   No person shall cause or allow open burning unless it is during
daylight hours and is attended at all times. (Ord., 5-13-2008)
5-11-3: EXPLOSIVE WASTES:
Open burning of wastes creating a hazard of explosion, fire or other serious
harm, unless authorized by other provisions in this chapter, shall be permitted
only upon application for the grant of a variance as provided by the
environmental protection act (act), 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.,
and by the pollution control board's (board) procedural rules, 35 Illinois
administrative code, subtitle A, chapter I. (Ord., 5-13-2008)
5-11-4: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the obligation of local governments as well as of the environmental
protection agency (agency) to enforce, by appropriate means, the prohibitions
of this chapter. (Ord., 5-13-2008)
5-11-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following activities are not in violation of this chapter unless they cause
"air pollution" as defined in the act. Nothing in this section shall exempt
such activities from applicable local restrictions.
   A.   The open burning of agricultural waste, but only:
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated; and
      2.   In areas other than restricted areas; and
      3.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants; and
      4.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or airfields; and
      5.   More than three hundred five meters (305 m) (1,000') from
residential or other populated areas; and
      6.   When it can be affirmatively demonstrated that no economically
reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.
   B.   The open burning of domicile waste, but only:
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated; and
      2.   In areas other than restricted areas; and
      3.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants; and
      4.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or airfields.
   C.   The open burning of landscape waste, but only:
      1.   On the premises on which such waste is generated; and
      2.   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants; and
      3.   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or airfields; and
      4.   In those areas of the state which are not in the following
prohibited areas:
         a.   Municipalities having a population in excess of two thousand five
hundred (2,500) according to the latest federal census.
         b.   Municipalities of any size which adjoin a municipality having a
population in excess of two thousand five hundred (2,500).
         c.   Rural areas three hundred five meters (305 m) (1,000') or less
from a municipality in which open burning of landscape waste is prohibited.
   D.   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when reasonably
necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official.
   E.   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational and cooking
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces in areas where such burning is consistent
with other laws; provided, that no garbage shall be burned in such cases.
   F.   The burning of waste gases; provided, that in the case of refineries,
all such fires shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
   G.   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares and the like. (Ord., 5-13-2008)
5-11-6: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating section
5-11-2 or
5-11-3 of this chapter, as a first offense, shall be fined not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
plus court costs. Any person convicted of violating section
5-11-2 or
5-11-3 of this chapter, as a second offense, shall be fined not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
plus court costs. Any person found guilty of violating section
5-11-2 or
5-11-3 of this chapter, as a third or subsequent offense, shall be fined not
less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), plus court costs. (Ord., 5-13-2008; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 12
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-12-1: Possession Or Use Of Drug Paraphernalia And Controlled Substances
5-12-2: Possession Of Cannabis
5-12-3: Offenses By Minors
5-12-4: Disturbing The Peace While Intoxicated
5-12-5: Prohibiting Camping On Public Property
5-12-1: POSSESSION OR USE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES:
   A.   Offense: It is an offense for any person to use, or to possess with
intent to use, drug paraphernalia or to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce
into the human body a controlled substance in violation of 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., and 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/100 et
seq. (Ord., 10-11-2005)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Nothing in this section shall prevent the state's attorney
of the county from prosecuting these matters under the criminal laws of the
state. (Ord., 10-11-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
5-12-2: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Definitions: All the terms and phrases used herein shall have the same
meanings as ascribed to them in the cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 550/1 et seq., and amendments thereto; except, should the term
"person" be limited therein to natural persons who have attained the age of
seventeen (17) years or more, said limitation is specifically excluded herein,
and the term "person" is made applicable to all natural persons who have
attained the age of thirteen (13) years or more.
   B.   Offense: A person commits the offense of possession of cannabis by
knowingly possessing ten grams (10 g) or less of any substance containing
cannabis unless permitted or authorized to do so pursuant to the cannabis
control act. (Ord., 10-11-2005)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to a fine
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Nothing in this section shall prevent the state's attorney
of the county from prosecuting these matters under the criminal laws of the
state. (Ord., 10-11-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
5-12-3: OFFENSES BY MINORS 1 :
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, the term "minor" shall mean a
person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   Obtain/Possess/Consume/Dispense Alcohol: No person under the age of
twenty one (21) years shall purchase, obtain, possess, consume, sell, deliver,
or dispense alcoholic liquor unless permitted to do so pursuant to 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-20 et seq.
      2.   Display Or Use Of, Tampering With False Identification: No person
under the age of twenty one (21) years shall display or use a false or forged
identification card or transfer, alter, or deface an identification card in
furtherance or facilitation of obtaining smoking accessories, smoking herbs or
alcohol, or to gain entrance to a facility where alcohol is served. (Ord., 10-
11-2005)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 10-11-2005; amd. 2009 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-1-24 of this code.
5-12-4: DISTURBING THE PEACE WHILE INTOXICATED:
   A.   Offense: It shall be unlawful for any person in an intoxicated
condition to engage in any behavior which causes a disturbance of the peace
including, but not limited to, making or creating loud noises so as to cause a
disturbance of the peace, acting in an unruly or generally threatening manner
in the presence of any person including a police officer, refusing to follow
the instructions of a sheriff's deputy, or otherwise disturbing the peace in
any public place, highway or alley. (Ord., 6-12-2007)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
a finding of guilt, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 6-12-2007; amd. 2009 Code)
5-12-5: PROHIBITING CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section:
      BRIDGE: A structure, including the approaches thereto, erected in order
to afford passage over any obstruction in any public road, railroad, or other
right-of-way, or to afford passage under or over existing public roads,
railroads, or other rights-of-way.
      CAMP or CAMPING: To pitch, use, or occupy camp facilities, or to use camp
paraphernalia, or both, for the purpose of habitation. Camp or camping does not
include the use of public property or public facilities for recreational use or
for authorized public or private events that involve the use of tents, awnings,
or other structures in connection with such recreational use or authorized
public or private event.
      CAMP FACILITIES: Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
shelters, campers, recreational vehicles, or trailers. Camp facilities do not
include tents, huts, or temporary shelters, when used temporarily in a park for
recreation or play during daylight hours when the park is open to the public.
      CAMP PARAPHERNALIA: Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots,
beds, sleeping bags, hammocks, blankets, mattresses, or cooking facilities and
similar equipment.
      PARK: Any publicly owned area controlled by the County or other
governmental entity for park purposes. Park also includes all associated areas,
including parking lots for parks.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY: Without limitation, any real property, building,
structure, equipment, sign, shelter, vegetation, greenspace, playground, bench,
trail, picnic shelters, recreational and athletic fields, and public open
space, including all associated areas such as parking lots, controlled or owned
by the County or any other governmental agency.
      STORE or STORING: To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put
for safekeeping, or to place or leave in a location. leaving one’s personal
property such as, without limitation, clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping
bags, luggage, shopping carts, knapsacks, or backpacks, unattended for more
than one hour.
      STREET: Any highway, lane, road, street (including adjacent shoulders,
medians, and terrace areas), right-of-way, sidewalk, boulevard, alley, and
every way or place in the unincorporated areas of the County open as a matter
of right to public pedestrian and vehicular travel.
      UNAUTHORIZED ENCAMPMENT: The collection of camp facilities, camp
paraphernalia, and/or personal property used for camping in violation of this
ordinance.
   B.   Offenses: It shall be unlawful for any person to camp, or to engage in
the activity of camping, or to store personal property, including camp
facilities or camp paraphernalia as defined in Paragraph A of the ordinance,
within the following areas in unincorporated Jo Daviess County:
      1.   Any street; or
      2.   Any bridge; or
      3.   Any park; or
      4.   Any public property, improved or unimproved; or
      5.   Any public area where camping obstructs or interferes with the
intended public use of the property.
    C.   Penalty: Any person who violates a provision of this section shall
upon a finding of guilt, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. O2024-8, 6-11-2024)
TITLE 6
COUNTY ROADS AND TRANSPORTATION
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Weight Restrictions Generally (Rep. by Ord. 2009-2, 4-13-2009)
6-1-2: Weight Restrictions During Adverse Weather Conditions
6-1-1: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2009-2, 4-13-2009)
6-1-2: WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS DURING ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS:
   A.   Regulation By County Engineer: The county engineer may prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any county road or impose restrictions as to the
weight of vehicles to be operated upon any county road for a total period not
to exceed ninety (90) days in any one calendar year whenever any county road,
by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other climate conditions, will be
seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is prohibited
or the permissible weights thereof reduced. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-19)
   B.   Weight Limits Established: Weight limits to be set hereunder shall be
as follows:
Size Of Wheel Rims   Pounds Per Axle
Size Of Wheel Rims           Pounds Per Axle
                                  
Less than 20 inches in diameter:   
   Single tires                4,000
   Dual tires                  6,000
                                  
20 inches or greater in diameter:  
   Single tires                8,000
   Dual tires                  12,000
 
(Ord., 1-10-1995)
   C.   Signs Posted: The county engineer shall erect or cause to be erected
and maintained signs designating the restrictions on use of the roads at each
end of that portion of any road which is restricted, and this section shall not
be effective unless and until all such signs are erected and maintained. (1977
Code ch. 3 § 3-20)
   D.   Penalty: Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of subsection A
of this section, a fine shall be assessed in accordance with the provisions of
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-113, which section is hereby adopted by
reference and made a part hereof. Three (3) copies of said statute are on file
in the office of the county clerk for public use and inspection. (1977 Code ch.
3 § 3-21; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SPEED ZONES
SECTION:
6-2-1: Schedule Of Speed Zones
6-2-2: Signs Posted
6-2-1: SCHEDULE OF SPEED ZONES:
As authorized in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-604, the following is the
schedule of altered speed zones in the County: (1977 Code ch. 25; amd. 2009
Code)
SCHEDULE OF ALTERED SPEED ZONES
Name Of Street From To Maximum Speed/ Miles Per Hour
Name Of Street     From                To                  Maximum Speed/ Miles
                                                           Per Hour
Blackhawk Trail    Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   West Wachter Road   Eagle Ridge Drive
Blackjack Road     Intersection of     Intersection of     45
                   Pilot Knob Road     Irish Hollow Road
                  Intersection of     Galena City limits  40
                   Irish Hollow Road
Brodrecht Road     Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   Wachter Road        Longhollow Road
                   Intersection of E.
                   South Apple Canyon  Intersection of E.
E. South Apple     Road and N. West    South Apple Canyon  45
Canyon Road        Apple Canyon Road   Road and N. East
                   easterly for 2.59   Apple Canyon Road
                   miles
Eagle Ridge Drive  Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   U.S. Route 20 West  West Wachter Road
                   Intersection of     Intersection of
                   East Binkley Road   East Binkley Road
East Binkley Road  and South Canyon    and South Mapes     40
                   Park Road easterly  Road
                   for 5,300 feet
Elizabeth Scales   Intersection of     Northerly for 1,500 45
Mound Road         Stagecoach Trail    feet
Ferry Landing Road Galena City limits  Intersection of     35
                                       East Cross Road
                   Intersection of     U.S. Route 20 to
Golf View Drive    Golf View Drive     the end of Golf     40
                                       View Drive
Guilford Road      Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   Territory Drive     Thunder Bay Drive
                                       Intersection of
                  Intersection of     East Galena/        45
                   Stagecoach Trail    Guilford Township
                                       line
Longhollow Road    Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   Eagle Ridge Drive   Brodrecht Road
Mt. Hope Road      Intersection of     Intersection of     40
                   U.S. Route 20       Thunder Bay Road
                   From the northern
                   city limits of the
                   Village of East
N. Badger Road     Dubuque northerly                      45
                   for 5,500 feet as
                   shown on the
                   location map
                   Intersection of N.
                   East Apple Canyon   Intersection of N.
N. East Apple      Road and E. South   East Apple Canyon   45
Canyon Road        Apple Canyon Road   Road and N. West
                   northerly for 5.46  Apple Canyon Road
                   miles
                   Intersection of N.
                   West Apple Canyon   Intersection of N.
N. West Apple      Road and N. East    West Apple Canyon   45
Canyon Road        Apple Canyon Road   Road and E. South
                   southerly for 2.82  Apple Canyon Road
                   miles
Territory Drive    Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   Guilford Road       Cogan Drive
                  Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   West Wachter Road   Cogan Drive
                   Intersection of     East Galena/
Thunder Bay Road   Eagle Ridge Drive   Guilford Township   40
                                       line
Wachter Road       Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   Morely Road         Bluffwood Trail
                   Intersection of     Intersection of
Walnut Street      Walnut Street and   Walnut Street and   35
                   Oak Street easterly Drive
                   for 4,000 feet
West Wachter Road  Intersection of     Intersection of     35
                   Ironwood Lane       Eagle Ridge Drive
 
(1977 Code ch. 25; amd. Ord., 2-13-1996; Ord., 5-13-1997; Ord., 5-11-1999;
Ord., 5-8-2001; Ord., 1-14-2003; Ord., 5-9-2006; Ord. 2018-08, 9-11-2018; Ord.
O2021-7, 10-12-2021)
6-2-2: SIGNS POSTED:
Signs giving notice of the altered speed zones listed in section
6-2-1 of this chapter shall be erected in conformance with the standards and
specifications contained in the Illinois Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways. (1977 Code ch. 25)
CHAPTER 3
DEPOSITS ON COUNTY ROADS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Deposits Prohibited
6-3-2: Penalty
6-3-1: DEPOSITS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or cause to be deposited on any
county road or right of way any snow, ice, mud or refuse in such manner as to
create an obstruction or hazard to vehicular traffic thereon. (1977 Code ch. 3
§ 3-22)
6-3-2: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-23; amd. 2009
Code)
CHAPTER 4
USE OF COUNTY ROADS BY UTILITY COMPANIES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Consent Required
6-4-2: Application For Consent
6-4-3: Grant Of Consent
6-4-4: Damaged Property; Costs To Owners
6-4-5: Rules, Regulations And Specifications
6-4-6: Removal, Relocation Or Modification By County
6-4-7: Responsibility For Maintenance And Repair
6-4-8: County Rights Protected
6-4-9: Scope Of Consent
6-4-1: CONSENT REQUIRED:
No ditches, drains, track, rails, poles, wires, pipeline or other equipment of
any public utility company, municipal corporation or other public or private
corporation, association or person shall be located, placed or constructed
upon, under or along any county road without first obtaining the written
consent of the county highway department. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-27)
6-4-2: APPLICATION FOR CONSENT:
Any entity applying for consent shall submit such information in such form and
detail to the county highway department as to allow the department to evaluate
the entity's application. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-29)
6-4-3: GRANT OF CONSENT:
Upon receipt of an application for consent therefor, consent to so use a road
may be granted subject to such terms and conditions consistent with this
chapter and/or the county highway department rules and regulations and
specifically pertaining to such application as the county highway department
deems to be in the best interest of the public. Such consent shall be granted
by the county engineer. The petition shall be filed with the engineer within a
reasonable time prior to the proposed date of the beginning of construction,
and if written consent is not given by the engineer within fifteen (15) days
after receipt of the petition, the applicant may assume consent to the
construction. This chapter does not vitiate, extend or otherwise affect any
consent granted in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this
chapter to so use any road. (1977 Code ch. 3 §§ 3-32, 3-33; amd. 2009 Code)
6-4-4: DAMAGED PROPERTY; COSTS TO OWNERS:
The petitioner shall pay to the owners of property abutting upon the affected
roads established as though by common law plat all damages the owners may
sustain by reason of such use of the road, such damages to be ascertained and
paid in the manner provided by law for the exercise of the right of eminent
domain. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-32)
6-4-5: RULES, REGULATIONS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The county highway department is authorized to promulgate reasonable and
necessary rules, regulations and specifications for county roads for the
administration of this chapter. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-28)
6-4-6: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATION BY COUNTY:
   A.   Notice To Remove, Relocate Or Modify: Any ditches, drains, track,
rails, poles, wires, pipeline or other equipment located, placed or constructed
upon, under or along a county road with the consent of the county highway
department under this chapter shall, upon written notice by the county highway
department, be subject to removal, relocation or modification at no expense to
the county highway department for road or road safety purposes.
   B.   Failure To Comply: If, within sixty (60) days after receipt of such
written notice, arrangements are not made satisfactory to the county highway
department for such removal, relocation or modification, the county highway
department may remove, relocate or modify such ditches, drains, track, rails,
poles, wires, pipeline or other equipment and bill the owner thereof for the
total cost of such removal, relocation or modification.
   C.   Costs: The county highway department shall determine the terms of
payment of those costs; provided, that all costs billed by the county highway
department shall not be made payable over more than a five (5) year period from
the date of billing. This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the
county highway department from paying any part of the cost of removal,
relocation or modification where such payment is otherwise provided for by the
county, state or federal statute or regulation. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-30)
6-4-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
It shall be the sole responsibility of the entity, without expense to the
county highway department, to maintain and repair its ditches, drains, track,
rails, poles, wires, pipeline or other equipment after it is located, placed or
constructed upon, under or along any county road, and in no case shall the
county highway department thereafter be liable or responsible to the entity for
any damages or liability of any kind whatsoever incurred by the entity or the
entity's ditches, drains, track, rails, poles, wires, pipeline or other
equipment. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-31)
6-4-8: COUNTY RIGHTS PROTECTED:
Nothing in this chapter shall limit the right of the county highway department
to permit the location, placement or construction of any ditches, drains,
track, rails, poles, wires, pipeline or other equipment upon, under or along
any road or its road facilities or which the county highway department
determines is necessary to service facilities required for operating the
highway or road, including rest areas and weigh stations. (1977 Code ch. 3 § 3-
34)
6-4-9: SCOPE OF CONSENT:
The consent to be granted pursuant to this chapter by the county highway
department shall be effective only to the extent of the property interest of
the county. Such consent shall not be binding on any owner of the fee over or
under which the road is located and shall not otherwise relieve the entity
granted that consent from obtaining by purchase, condemnation or otherwise the
necessary approval of any owner of the fee over or under which the road is
located. This section shall not be construed as a limitation on the use for
road purposes of the land or other property interests acquired by the public
for road purposes, including the space under or above such right of way. (1977
Code ch. 3 § 3-35)
CHAPTER 5
DRIVEWAY ENTRANCES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Permit Requirements
6-5-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The county highway department engineer shall issue driveway installation
permits upon approval by the engineer of the location of said driveway entrance
fronting on a county roadway. A copy of said permit is attached to the
ordinance dated August 11, 1992, on file in the office of the county clerk, and
made a part hereof by this reference. (1977 Code ch. 29; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
SECTION:
6-6-1: Public Transportation Provided
6-6-1: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED:
Jo Daviess County shall hereby provide public transportation within the County
limits. (Ord. 2018-03, 3-13-2018)
CHAPTER 7
RAILROADS
SECTION:
6-7-1: State Regulations Adopted
6-7-2: Obstruction Of Highway At Grade Crossing Prohibited
6-7-3: Penalties
6-7-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
All provisions of the safety requirements for railroad operations, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/18c-7402, shall be hereby made part of this chapter insofar
as the provisions of such law pertain to the county. (Ord., 4-11-2005)
6-7-2: OBSTRUCTION OF HIGHWAY AT GRADE CROSSING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for a rail carrier to permit any train, railroad car or engine
to obstruct public travel at a railroad-highway grade crossing for a period in
excess ten (10) minutes, except where such train or railroad car is
continuously moving or cannot be moved by reason of circumstances over which
the rail carrier has no reasonable control. However, no employee acting under
the rules or orders of the rail carrier or its supervisory personnel may be
prosecuted for a violation of this section. (Ord., 4-11-2005)
6-7-3: PENALTIES:
Any rail carrier violating section
6-7-2 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense and fine is affixed at
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) if the duration of the obstruction is in excess of ten (10) minutes
but no longer than fifteen (15) minutes. If the duration of the obstruction
exceeds fifteen (15) minutes, the violation shall be a business offense, and
the following fees shall be imposed:
   A.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of fifteen (15) minutes
but no longer than twenty (20) minutes, the fine shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   B.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of twenty (20) minutes
but no longer than twenty five (25) minutes, the fine shall be seven hundred
dollars ($700.00).
   C.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of twenty five (25)
minutes, but no longer than thirty (30) minutes, the fine shall be nine hundred
dollars ($900.00).
   D.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of thirty (30) minutes,
but no longer than thirty five (35) minutes, the fine shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00).
   E.   If the duration of the obstruction is in excess of thirty five (35)
minutes, the fine shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), plus an additional
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each five (5) minutes of obstruction in
excess of thirty five (35) minutes. (Ord., 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 8
TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Contract To Tow; Authorization; Fees And Costs
6-8-2: Notice Of Tow
6-8-3: Release Of Vehicle
6-8-4: Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles
6-8-1: CONTRACT TO TOW; AUTHORIZATION; FEES AND COSTS:
   A.   The county, through its sheriff's office, shall contract with a towing
company (hereinafter referred to as "towing company") located within the area
of the county for the purpose of towing vehicles pursuant to this chapter. The
contract shall designate the maximum tow and per day storage fee allowed to be
charged for a tow and subsequent storage pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   The towing company shall only be authorized to tow a vehicle pursuant
to this chapter upon written request of the office of the sheriff.
   C.   The sheriff's office shall only authorize the towing of a vehicle upon
confirmation that the registered owner of the vehicle has committed a traffic
offense that requires that person being arrested and taken into custody by the
county sheriff's office.
   D.   Upon performing an authorized tow, the towing company shall have a lien
against the towed vehicle for the amount of the towing fee and storage costs
not to exceed ninety (90) days.
   E.   The sheriff's office shall assess a one hundred dollar ($100.00)
administrative fee for each vehicle towed. (Ord., 7-10-2007)
6-8-2: NOTICE OF TOW:
Upon performing a tow, the towing company shall send notice to the registered
owner of the towed vehicle at the address on file with the Illinois department
of transportation. Notice shall be mailed within twenty four (24) hours by
first class mail, postage prepaid. The notice shall:
   A.   Inform the owner that the vehicle has been towed pursuant to this
chapter.
   B.   Identify the vehicle by year, make, model and license plate number.
   C.   Indicate from where the vehicle was removed and the current location of
the vehicle.
   D.   Describe the requirements for retrieving the vehicle from impound.
   E.   State that the vehicle can be sold for tow and storage charges and
unpaid parking fines if not claimed within thirty (30) days from the date of
mailing of the notice.
   F.   Describe the procedure for obtaining a hearing. (Ord., 7-10-2007)
6-8-3: RELEASE OF VEHICLE:
   A.   A vehicle towed pursuant to this chapter shall only be returned to the
owner upon payment in full, by cashier's check, money order, debit card, or
credit card, for any and all towing charges, for the towing fee and associated
storage costs incurred by the towing company. The towing fee and storage costs
shall be paid directly to the towing company.
   B.   The owner must also present proof of ownership of the vehicle, by way
of photo identification consistent with the name on the vehicle registration,
to the towing company prior to the release of the vehicle to the owner. (Ord.,
7-10-2007)
6-8-4: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
If the owner of the vehicle fails to pay the tow and storage fees and the
parking fines within thirty (30) days of the mailing of the notice of tow, the
tow company may proceed to foreclose the storage lien by filing an action in
the county circuit court pursuant to 770 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et
seq. (Ord., 7-10-2007)
TITLE 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose
7-1-2: Compliance With Provisions
7-1-3: Adoption Of Codes
7-1-4: Permit Requirements
7-1-5: Inspections; Certificate Of Occupancy
7-1-6: Fees
7-1-7: Smoke Detectors
7-1-8: Administration And Enforcement Officials
7-1-9: Appeals
7-1-10: Violations; Penalties
7-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide minimum standards to safeguard life,
limb, health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the
design, construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and
maintenance of all buildings and structures within the unincorporated areas of
the County and certain equipment specifically regulated herein. (Ord., 12-14-
1999)
7-1-2: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected, constructed, enlarged or
modified in the unincorporated areas of the County, except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord., 12-14-1999)
7-1-3: ADOPTION OF CODES:
   A.   Codes Adopted: The following technical codes are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance, as if fully set out in this chapter.
      1.   Building Code: International Building Code 2021 edition, including
appendix Chapter G (see international building code section 101.2.1, 2021
edition), published by the International Code Council, Inc.
      2.   Residential Code: International Residential Code 2021 edition,
including appendix chapters A, B, C, D, E, G, J, M, and Q, (see international
residential code section R101.2.1, 2021 edition), published by the
International Code Council, Inc.
      3.   Electrical Code: The National Electrical Code (NEC) 2020 edition,
published by the National Fire Protection Association.,
      4.   Plumbing Code: State of Illinois Plumbing Code 2014 edition,
published by the Ilinois Department of Public Health.
      5.   Accessibility Code: Illinois Accessibility Code, American National
Standard Institute 2018 edition.
      6.   Mechanical Code: International Mechanical Code 2021 edition,
including appendix chapter A (see international mechanical code section
101.2.1, 2021 edition), published by the International Code Council, Inc.
      7.   Fuel Gas Code: International Fuel Gas Code, 2021 edition, including
appendix chapters A, B, C (see international fuel gas code section 101.3, 2021
edition), published by the International Code Council, Inc.
      8.   Energy Conservation: International Energy Conservation Code, 2021
edition, published by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted and
amended by the State of Illinois.
   B.   Copies On File: Three (3) copies of each of the codes referenced in
subsection A of this section are on file in the building and zoning office.
Such codes shall be made available to all members of the public whenever the
building and zoning office is open for business.
   C.   Amendments:
   International Building Code Amendments:
      IBC section 101.1 Title. Is amended by inserting the words "County of Jo
Daviess, IL."
      IBC section 101.4.3 Plumbing. - Delete.
      IBC section 101.4.4 Property Maintenance. - Delete.
      IBC section 101.4.5 Fire Prevention. - Delete.
      IBC Section 103 Code Compliance Agency.
         [A] 103.1 Creation of enforcement agency. The "Jo Daviess County
Planning and Development Department" is hereby created and shall act as the
Department of Building Safety.
      IBC Chapter 11. Deleted and replaced with "2018 Illinois Accessibility
Code".
      IBC Chapter 13. Deleted and replaced with "2021 Illinois Energy Code".
      IBC Chapter 16. Structural Design. Insert "Jo Daviess County" Dated
"March 27, 2001".
      IBC Section [A] 114.4 Violation Penalties. Is deleted and replaced with
the following:
         Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or
repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to fines and
penalties as those specified in section 1-4-1 of the county code.
      IBC Section [A] 115.2 Issuance. Is deleted and replaced with the
following:
         The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property involved, the owner's authorized agent, or the person
performing the work, or posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by such notice. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work
shall immediately cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the
order and the conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to
resume.
   APPENDIX G FLOOD-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
      G101.5 Designation of floodplain administrator - Insert "Jo Daviess
County Floodplain Officer".
      G107.1 General. Is deleted and replaced with the following:
         Submittal documents consisting of construction documents and other
data shall be submitted in two (2) or more sets with each application for a
permit. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design
professional. Where special conditions exist, the building official is
authorized to require additional construction documents to be prepared by a
registered design professional.
         Exceptions:
            a.   The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that reviewing of construction documents is not necessary
to obtain compliance with this code.
            b.   The building official is authorized to waive the requirement
for construction document preparation by a registered design professional where
the cost of construction does not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) and the submittals are adequate to accurately depict the proposed
work.
            c.   The building official is authorized to waive the requirement
for construction document preparation by a registered design professional where
the scope of the work is limited to:
               1.   Replacement without modification of existing doors and
windows, electrical, mechanical or plumbing fixtures;
               2.   Replacement of existing electrical, mechanical or plumbing
fixtures;
               3.   Re-roofing that does not involve structural modifications;
               4.   Landscaping, patios, sidewalks, driveways, and flatwork
that does not involve a change of grade or addition of impervious surface; or
               5.   Other similar activities as determined by the building
official.
   International Residential Code Amendments
      R101.1 Title. Is amended by inserting the words "County of Jo Daviess,
IL."
      R102.4 Referenced Codes and Standards. Is deleted and replaced with the
following:
         The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be considered
part of the requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. Where differences occur between provisions of this code and
referenced standards, the provisions of the code shall apply. Where differences
occur between provisions of this and any other provision of the county code,
the most restrictive provision shall apply.
         Exception:
            Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the conditions
of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the listing and
manufacturer's instructions shall apply.
      R105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. Is deleted and replaced with the
following:
         Exemptions from permit requirements of this code shall not be deemed
to grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of
the provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of this
jurisdiction. Permits shall not be required for the following:
         Building:
            1.   Other than storm shelters, one-story detached accessory
structures, provided that the floor area does not exceed 120 square feet
(18.58m²).
      R106.1 Submittal Documents. Is deleted and replaced with the following:
         Submittal documents consisting of construction documents and other
data shall be submitted in two (2) or more sets with each application for a
permit. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered design
professional. Where special conditions exist, the building official is
authorized to require additional construction documents to be prepared by a
registered design professional.
         Exceptions:
            The building official is authorized to waive the submission of
construction documents and other data not required to be prepared by a
registered design professional if it is found that the nature of the work
applied for is such that reviewing of construction documents is not necessary
to obtain compliance with this code.
               a.   The building official is authorized to waive the
requirement for construction document preparation by a registered design
professional where the cost of construction does not exceed twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) and the submittals are adequate to accurately
depict the proposed work.
               b.   The building official is authorized to waive the
requirement for construction document preparation by a registered design
professional where the scope of the work is limited to:
                  1.   Replacement without modification of existing doors and
windows, electrical, mechanical or plumbing fixtures;
                  2.   Replacement of existing electrical, mechanical or
plumbing fixtures;
                  3.   Re-roofing that does not involve structural
modifications;
                  4.   Landscaping, patios, sidewalks, driveways, and flatwork
that does not involve a change of grade or addition of impervious surface; or
                  5.   Other similar activities as determined by the building
official.
      R113.4 Violation Penalties. Is deleted and replaced with the following:
         Any person who violates a provision of this code or fails to comply
with any of the requirements thereof or who erects, constructs, alters or
repairs a building or structure in violation of the approved construction
documents or directive of the building official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of this code, shall be subject to fines and
penalties as those specified in section
1-4-1 of the county code.
      R114.1 Notice To Owner. Is deleted and replaced with the following:
         Upon notice from the building official that work on any building or
structure is being prosecuted contrary to the provisions of this code or in an
unsafe and dangerous manner, such work shall be immediately stopped. The stop
work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property
involved, or to the owner's agent or to the person doing the work, or posted in
a conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by such notice, and
shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which work will
be permitted to resume.
      Table R301.2. (1)
      Climactic and Geographic Design Criteria
Ground snow load              30 lb/ft2          R301.2(5)
Ultimate wind design          107 mph*           R301.2(4)A
Seismic design category       A                   
Subject to damage form        Weathering         Severe R301.2(3)
                             Frost line depth   42 inches
                             Termite            Moderate to severe
Winter design temperature     -4 DEG F           Rockford
Summer design temperature     84 DEG dry bulb     
                             72 DEG wet bulb     
Ice barrier underlayment      Yes                 
Flood hazards                 See Maps           FEMA
Air freezing index            1960                
Annual mean temperature       47 F               Stockton
Heating degree days (HDD)     6,988               
Cooling degree days (CDD)     649                 
Climate zone                  5A                  
Indoor design conditions      Max. 72F - heating Min. 75F - cooling
100-year hourly rainfall rate 4 inches            
 
      * Ultimate Design Wind Speed replaces Basic Wind Speed as found in
earlier editions. Although the values are different, there is very little
practical difference in the design or construction requirements.
      R302.5.1 Opening protection. Openings from private garage directly into a
room used for sleeping purposes shall not be permitted. Other openings between
the garage and residence shall be equipped with solid wood doors not less than
1 inches (35mm) in thickness, solid or honeycomb-core steel doors not less than
1 inches (35mm) thick, or 20-minute fire-rated doors. Equipped with self-
closing or automatic-closing device.
      R302.13 Fire protection of floors. Deleted
      R304.1 Minimum Room Areas. Is deleted and replaced with the following:
         Every dwelling unit shall have at least one habitable room that shall
have not less than 120 square feet (11 m²) of gross floor area. Other habitable
rooms shall have a floor area of not less than seventy (70) square feet (6.5
m²).
         Exception: Kitchens.
      R310.8 Conversion Into Habitable Space. Is deleted and replaced with the
following:
         When any area previously not approved or utilized as habitable space
is converted into and/or utilized as habitable space - regardless of the amount
of construction work done in this area - it shall be considered as
reconstruction and be subject to the requirements of this chapter and the
provisions of section R310 of this code.
      R310.9 Conversion Into A Sleeping Room. Is deleted and replaced with the
following:
         When any area previously not approved or utilized as a sleeping room
is converted into and/or utilized as a sleeping room - regardless of the amount
of construction work that was or was not done in this conversion or change of
utilization - it shall be subject to all requirements for new construction of a
sleeping room as found in this code.
      R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems. Is deleted and replaced with the
following:
         Deleted entire section which requires sprinkler systems to be
installed in one-and-two family dwelling units and townhomes.
      R401.1 is deleted and replaced with the following:
         The provisions of this chapter shall control the design and
construction of the foundation and foundation spaces of all buildings. Wood
foundations shall not be allowed.
      R402.1 Wood foundations. - Delete this and corresponding sub-sections.
      R403.2 Footings for wood foundations. - Delete this and corresponding
sub-sections.
      R404.2 Wood foundations walls. - Delete this and corresponding sub-
sections.
      R405.2 Wood foundation drainage. - Delete this and corresponding sub-
sections.
      R504 PRESSURE PRESERVATIVE TREATED-WOOD FLOORS (ON GROUND)- Delete
section and corresponding sub-sections.
      Chapter 25 Plumbing Administration - Is deleted and replaced with "The
design and installation of all plumbing shall be in accordance to the Illinois
Plumbing Code and all other applicable federal, state and local ordinances."
      Chapter 26 General Plumbing Requirements - Delete.
      Chapter 27 Plumbing Fixtures - Delete.
      Chapter 28 Water heaters - Delete.
      Chapter 29 Water Supply and Distribution - Delete.
      Chapter 30 Sanitary Drainage - Delete.
      Chapter 31 Vents - Delete.
      Chapter 32 Traps - Delete.
      Appendix AJ Existing Buildings and Structures. Insert the following:
         AJ102.10 Conversion into Habitable Space. When any area previously not
approved or utilized as habitable space is converted into and/or utilized as
habitable space - regardless of the amount of construction work done in this
area - it shall be considered as reconstruction and be subject to the
requirements of this chapter and provisions of section R310 of this code.
         AJ102 .11 Conversion into A Sleeping Room. When any area previously
not approved or utilized as a sleeping room is converted into and/or utilized
as a sleeping room - regardless of the amount of construction work that was or
was not done in this conversion or change of utilization - it shall be subject
to all requirements for new construction of a sleeping room as found in this
code.
   International Mechanical Code Amendments
      101.1 Title. Is amended by inserting the words "County of Jo Daviess,
IL".
   International Fire Code Amendments
      101.1 Title. Is amended by inserting the words 'County of Jo Daviess,
IL".
(Ord 2013-6, 10-8-2013, eff. 1-1-2014; Ord. O2021-5, 9-14-2021, eff. 11-1-2021;
Ord. O2024-4, 5-14-2024, eff. 1-1-2025)
7-1-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct,
enlarge or modify any building or structure, or change the use of any existing
building without first obtaining a separate permit therefor, as defined in this
chapter, for each such building.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Contents: To obtain a permit, the owner or his/her representative
shall file an application therefor on a form furnished by the County for that
purpose, and said application shall include a signed statement indicating the
purpose of the building unit. A set of plans must be furnished at the time of
the permit application. Said plan shall include, at a minimum, the following
information:
         a.   Plot Plan: Showing location and distance from lot lines of
existing and proposed structures, well and septic.
         b.   Foundation Plan: Showing detail of size, height and reinforcement
used in footings and foundation walls. Size and spacing of concrete pads must
also be included.
         c.   Complete Floor Plan: Showing dimensions and uses of each room;
also window and door locations and sizes.
         d.   Structural Plan: Showing member sizing and spacing for walls,
floors and roof.
      2.   Exception: The county building officer may reduce or waive the
requirements of submission of plans if he/she finds that the nature of the work
applied for is such that reviewing of plans is not necessary to obtain
compliance with this chapter. To obtain a permit to construct an agricultural
building, only an accurate site plan is needed.
   C.   Voided Permits: A permit issued through the presentation of a false or
a misleading application shall be void. Individuals working under void permits
shall be subject to the penalties described in this chapter as though no permit
was ever issued. No refund shall be made to anyone obtaining a void permit.
(Ord., 12-14-1999)
7-1-5: INSPECTIONS; CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Notice Of Inspection: All bearers of building permits are required to
give the building and zoning administrator twenty four (24) hours' advance
notice of the readiness of a particular building unit for inspection following
completion of the following stages of construction:
      1.   Completion of footing forms before pouring any concrete. (Ord., 12-
14-1999)
      2.   After framing is completed and prior to siding installation.
      3.   After rough in for electric, plumbing and mechanical are complete,
prior to insulating.
      4.   Final inspection after completion of construction and before moving
into the structure. (Ord. 2012-2, 2-14-2012)
   B.   Issuance Of Certificate Of Occupancy: Upon approval by the building and
zoning administrator, following final inspection, a certificate of occupancy
will be signed and given to the owner. Occupancy and use shall not be allowed
until the certificate is issued. Occupancy or use without receipt of said
certificate shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord., 12-14-1999)
7-1-6: FEES:
Any application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a fee as set by
the county board. Fees shall apply to all new construction of any building or
structure regulated by this chapter. Agricultural buildings may be exempt.
(Ord., 1-10-2006)
7-1-7: SMOKE DETECTORS:
Every applicable unit shall conform to the requirements contained in the smoke
detector act, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 60/1 et seq. It shall be the duty
of the building and zoning administrator to assure compliance with this act.
(Ord., 12-14-1999)
7-1-8: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Building And Zoning Administrator: The position of building and zoning
administrator shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. He/she will be
appointed by the county board and shall report to the county board when
required. It will be the duty of the building and zoning administrator to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, and he/she shall have the right of
entry in all buildings under construction. It will be his/her duty to establish
proper rules and regulations for the proper administration of this chapter.
   B.   Board Of Appeals:
      1.   Board Established; Appointment And Terms: A board of appeals shall
be established by the county board. The board of appeals shall consist of five
(5) members appointed by the county board chair to serve respectively for the
following terms: one for one year, two (2) for two (2) years, and two (2) for
three (3) years; the successors to each member so appointed to serve for a term
of three (3) years. The building and zoning administrator appointed by the
county board shall be an ex officio nonvoting member of the board of appeals.
      2.   Qualifications: Each of the members of the board of appeals shall be
experienced members of the building trades, and all members shall be residents
of the county.
      3.   Removal From Board: The county board shall have the power to remove
any member of the board of appeals for cause, after a public hearing is held to
consider the reasons for dismissal.
      4.   Meetings: The board of appeals shall meet from time to time as
needed, at such places within the county as the building and zoning
administrator may determine. All meetings of the board of appeals shall be
conducted in accordance with the Illinois open meetings act 1 .
      5.   Rules And Procedures: The board of appeals shall adopt and make
available to the public its own rules and procedures not in conflict with this
chapter or with state or federal law.
      6.   Expenses: The members of the board of appeals shall be paid such per
diem expenses as shall be authorized from time to time by the county board.
(Ord., 12-14-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
7-1-9: APPEALS:
Decisions of the building and zoning administrator, under this chapter, may be
appealed to the board of appeals and thereafter unto the courts. (Ord., 12-14-
1999)
7-1-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation A Nuisance: Every building constructed or under construction
which the building and zoning administrator determines to be in violation of
this code, is hereby declared to be a nuisance. It shall be the duty of the
building and zoning administrator to cause a written or printed notice to be
served upon the owner and/or the builder of any person doing the work thereto,
requiring him to stop work thereon and to conform to the requirements of this
code. (Ord., 12-14-1999)
   B.   Violation A Petty Offense; Penalty: Any person who shall violate a
provision of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements
hereof or who shall erect or construct a building or structure in violation of
an approved plan or directive of the building and zoning administrator, or of a
permit or certificate issued under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of
a petty offense punishable by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord., 12-14-1999; amd. 2009 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Numbers Required
7-2-3: Assignment Of Numbers; Fee
7-2-4: Specifications And Location
7-2-5: Responsibilities Of Owner
7-2-6: Enforcement And Penalties
7-2-7: Disposition Of Fees And Fines
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
   LOT: Any parcel of land shown on the property tax records of Jo Daviess
County and, in the case of tracts of land with multiple leased premises, each
such premises, whether or not the tract has been platted.
   OWNER: The person identified as the owner of a "lot", as defined in this
section, on the property tax records of Jo Daviess County. (Ord. 2013-1, 4-8-
2013)
7-2-2: NUMBERS REQUIRED:
The owner of any lot in the unincorporated area of the county which meets any
of the following criteria shall post a sign and/or post on the lot identifying
the street number of the lot as established by the county uniform addressing
and numbering system:
   A.   The lot has a dwelling upon it even though the dwelling is not occupied
throughout the year; or
   B.   The lot has any nonfarm structure upon it from which an occupant may
engage in any business or occupation; or
   C.   The lot has telephone service running to it. (Ord. 2013-1, 4-8-2013)
7-2-3: ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS; FEE:
The county planning and development office shall be responsible for assigning
and issuing street numbers for all lots in the unincorporated areas of the
county. Fees for the assigning and issuing of a street number shall be
established by resolution of the county board and shall be paid at time of
application. This address fee shall be for the actual costs of administration,
addressing sign/post and supplies. (Ord. 2013-1, 4-8-2013; amd. Ord. O2024-10,
9-10-2024)
7-2-4: SPECIFICATIONS AND LOCATION:
The size, color, and material specifications of each such sign and placement on
the lot shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Street Number Signs: Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, street number signs shall consist of four inch (4") high white
reflective numbers on a blue background mounted on an eight foot (8') high
steel post that extends six feet (6') aboveground, four inch by four inch (4" x
4") pressure treated wooden post, or a post made of other durable material
located, whenever possible, immediately adjacent to the driveway serving the
lot. The numbers shall be clearly visible from the street when approaching from
either direction and may be located in the public street right of way if such
location is needed to facilitate visibility.
   B.   Number On Mailboxes: When a mailbox is located immediately adjacent to
the driveway serving a lot, in lieu of mounting the street number on a separate
post, the street number described in subsection A of this section may be placed
on the mailbox or mailbox post in a manner clearly visible from the street when
approaching from either direction.
   C.   Variances: The county building and zoning office may vary the location
requirements specified in this section when topographic or other physical
conditions warrant such variance or when special circumstances exist, e.g.,
multiple dwellings or other occupied buildings on a lot or multiple lots served
by private roads. When considering a variance, the building and zoning office
shall seek to establish street number signage that facilitates emergency
service response. Additionally, when considering a variance, the building and
zoning office may consult with appropriate emergency service providers serving
the area in which the lot is located. (Ord. 2013-1, 4-8-2013)
7-2-5: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER:
   A.   The owner shall be responsible for compliance with this chapter.
   B.   The owner shall not alter or cause to be altered the address sign/post
or its location.
   C.   The owner shall be responsible for reimbursing the county for replacing
or repairing the address sign at the rate established by resolution of the
county board.
   D.   Failure of an owner to comply with the requirements of this chapter,
wholly or in part, shall be deemed a petty offense, and the owner will be
subject to a fine as described in section
7-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-1, 4-8-2013)
7-2-6: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
The county sheriff shall be responsible for enforcing this chapter and any laws
pertaining to same. Penalties for any violations of this chapter are as
follows:
   A.   First offense: Written warning and address fee.
   B.   Second offense: Fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and address fee.
   C.   Further offenses: Fine of three hundred dollars ($300.00) and address
fee for each subsequent offense. (Ord. 2013-1, 4-8-2013)
7-2-7: DISPOSITION OF FEES AND FINES:
All installation/replacement fees and fines shall be forwarded directly to the
county ETSB to fund the addressing and numbering system. December 1, 2013, and
thereafter all installation/replacement fees and fines shall be retained by Jo
Daviess County to aid in funding the addressing and numbering system. (Ord.
2013-1, 4-8-2013)
CHAPTER 3
MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Permitted; Conditions
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED: A dwelling which is designed for and
occupied by not more than one family and surrounded by open space or yards and
which is not attached to any other dwelling by any other means.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT: A transportable, factory built structure that is
manufactured in accordance with the federal manufactured housing construction
and safety standards act of 1974 (42 USC section 5401) and that is designed to
be used as a single dwelling unit. (Previously referred to as a "mobile home".)
A manufactured housing unit is constructed to be towed on its own chassis
(comprised of frame and wheels) from place of construction to location.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable unit, which is eight (8) body feet or more
in width and is thirty two (32) body feet or more in length, and constructed to
be towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of
construction to location or subsequent locations, and designed to be used
without a permanent foundation and connected to utilities for year round
occupancy with or without a permanent foundation. These homes were constructed
prior to June 15, 1976, when the federal preemptive HUD code became effective.
"Mobile homes" have not been constructed since this date.
MODULAR HOME: A factory fabricated dwelling built in accordance with the
requirements of all technical codes adopted in section
7-1-3 of this title and the requirements of the Illinois department of public
health, and shall be subject to the same standards as site built homes. A
"modular home" may consist of two (2) or more components that can be separated
when transported but designed to be joined into one integral unit on a
permanent foundation ready for occupancy except for assembly operations and
finishing. "Modular homes" are not considered as mobile homes, manufactured
homes, or travel trailers.
PERMANENT FOUNDATION: A closed perimeter formation consisting of materials such
as concrete, mortared concrete block, or mortared brick extending into the
ground below the frost line which shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to, cellars, basements, or crawl spaces, but does not exclude the use of piers.
PIER FOUNDATIONS: Pier foundations consist of isolated masonry or cast in place
concrete structural elements extending into firm materials below the frost
line. (Ord., 12-13-2007)
7-3-2: PERMITTED; CONDITIONS:
Manufactured home residential design meeting the conditions listed below may be
issued a building permit as a "dwelling, single-family, detached", as defined
in section
7-3-1 of this chapter: (Ord. 2012-2, 2-14-2012)
   A.   Manufactured single-family detached homes shall not include a "mobile
home", as defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter.
   B.   A manufactured home shall meet HUD technical codes (the national
manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of 1974, 42 USC 5401
et seq.; 24 CFR part 3280 and part 3282, as amended).
   C.   An affidavit shall be submitted with the building permit application
showing compliance with the following standards:
      1.   The roof of the manufactured home shall be pitched at a ratio of not
less than three inches (3") of rise (vertical distance) in twelve inches (12")
of run (horizontal distance), or greater, and covered with durable material
that is residential in appearance including, but not limited to, approved wood,
asphalt composition shingles or wood shake shingles, but excluding corrugated
aluminum, corrugated fiberglass or metal roof.
      2.   Exterior siding shall be residential in appearance and cannot have a
high gloss finish including, but not limited to, clapboard, simulated clapboard
such as conventional vinyl or metal siding, wood shingles, brick veneer or
similar material, but excluding smooth, ribbed or corrugated metal or plastic
panels.
      3.   The towing devices, hitches, axles and wheels shall be removed.
(Ord., 12-13-2007)
      4.   The manufactured home may be placed on a "permanent foundation",
floating slab, or on "pier foundations" as defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter and must be tied down in accordance with the
manufacturers' requirements. (Ord. 2012-2, 2-14-2012)
      5.   The home shall not be less than twenty four feet (24') in width.
(Ord., 12-13-2007)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE A. SCOPE
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Title
8-1A-2: Authority
8-1A-3: Repeal Of Previous Ordinance
8-1A-4: Purpose And Intent
8-1A-5: Applicability And Jurisdiction
8-1A-6: Rules Of Construction
8-1A-7: Compliance With The Regulations
8-1A-8: Interpretation
8-1A-9: Validity And Severability Clause
8-1A-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF JO
DAVIESS COUNTY, ILLINOIS, although it may be referred to hereafter as the
"zoning ordinance", or "this title". (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-1A-2: AUTHORITY:
This zoning ordinance is enacted pursuant to the powers granted and limitations
imposed by the constitution and laws of the state of Illinois, including, but
not limited to, the statutory authority granted in 55 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-12001 et seq., and all modifications and amendments thereto. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-1A-3: REPEAL OF PREVIOUS ORDINANCE:
The zoning ordinance of Jo Daviess County adopted on December 14, 1993, and
made effective March 1, 1995, and all amendments thereto are hereby deleted and
replaced with the terms of this title effective coincident with the effective
date hereof. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-1A-4: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purposes of this title are promoting the public health, safety, and general
welfare, conserving the values of property throughout the county, lessening or
avoiding congestion in the public streets and highways, and lessening or
avoiding the hazards to persons and damage to property resulting from the
accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters, and for such other lawful
purposes that are in the public interest and to assist in the implementation of
the Jo Daviess County comprehensive plan adopted September 14, 1999, and as
subsequently amended. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-1A-5: APPLICABILITY AND JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this zoning ordinance shall apply to the development of all
structures and land within the unincorporated area of Jo Daviess County unless
exempted under the terms of this section or by the laws of the United States or
the state of Illinois, and shall be in conjunction with the provisions of title
9, "Subdivision Regulations", of this code. Note: Specific exemptions such as
the agricultural use exemption or the preemption of land which is the subject
of a valid preannexation agreement with a municipality are not specifically
listed.
   A.   Process: It shall be unlawful to conduct development on any parcel or
the construction of any structure on a parcel until: 1) all applicable
development review and approval processes have been followed; 2) all applicable
approvals have been obtained; and 3) all required permits or authorizations to
proceed have been issued.
   B.   Regulations: All buildings or structures erected hereafter, all uses of
land, buildings, or structures established hereafter, all structural
alteration, relocation, or substantial improvement of existing buildings, or
structures occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this
title which are applicable to the zoning districts in which such building,
structure, use, or land shall be located.
   C.   Exemptions: The provisions of this title shall not be exercised so as
to impose regulations; eliminate uses, buildings or structures; or require
permits with respect to land, to the extent limited to that which the law of
the state of Illinois prohibits said regulation by the county. In the event
that any structure or land ceases to be used only for an exempt purpose, then
such structure or land shall be subject to the provisions of this title. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-1A-6: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Meanings And Intent: All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this zoning ordinance shall be construed according to the stated
purpose and intent of the zoning ordinance.
      1.   Words and terms used in this zoning ordinance shall be given the
meanings in chapter 7 of this title. The words and terms, set forth herein
under "definitions" wherever they occur in this title, shall be interpreted as
herein defined.
      2.   Technical and nontechnical words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
      3.   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and not discretionary.
      4.   The word "may" is permissive.
      5.   The word "lot" shall include the words "piece", "parcel" and
"tract"; and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for",
"designed for", "intended for", "maintained for" and "occupied for".
      6.   The word "person" means any individual, association, company,
corporation, firm, organization, estate, joint venture, and partnership,
trustee, singular or plural of any kind or other legal entity capable of
holding title to real property.
      7.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
      8.   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number
and the plural the singular.
      9.   Any words not defined as follows shall be construed in their
generally accepted meanings as defined in the most recent publication of
"Merriam Webster's Dictionary".
   B.   Distance: All measured differences shall be to the nearest integral
foot. If a fraction of a foot is less than six inches (6"), the integral foot
next below shall be taken.
   C.   Text: In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this and any heading, drawing, table or figure, the text shall control.
   D.   Computation Of Time: The time within which an act is to be completed
shall be computed by including the first day and excluding the last day. In the
computation of time for public hearing notice, the day of the advertisement
shall be counted and the day of the hearing shall be excluded.
   E.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or another officer or employee of the county to perform an
act or duty, that provision shall be construed as authorizing the department
head or officer to delegate the responsibility to subordinates, unless the
terms of the provision specify otherwise.
   F.   Public Officials And Agencies: All public officials, bodies, and
agencies to which references are made are those of Jo Daviess County, unless
otherwise indicated. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-1A-7: COMPLIANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS:
The regulations set by this title within each district shall be minimum
regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided.
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, placed, enlarged,
reconstructed, or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used
except for the purpose and in the manner permitted in the district in which the
building or land is located.
   B.   Land required for setbacks, open spaces, off street parking or loading
spaces for any existing building or new building shall be used for only one
building.
   C.   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a zoning lot, and in no case shall there be more than one principal
building per zoning lot, except in the agricultural district(s) or except as
otherwise provided in the ordinance.
   D.   The provisions of these regulations shall be considered the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals, comfort
and welfare. Where provisions of this title impose greater restrictions than
those of any statute, other ordinance or regulation, the provisions of this
title shall be controlling, unless the provisions of the statute do not
expressly allow greater restrictions or such greater restrictions cannot be
reasonably implied from expressed statutory authority, then in that event the
statute controls. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or
regulation impose greater restrictions than this title, the provisions of such
statute, other ordinance or regulation shall prevail.
   E.   The regulations of this zoning ordinance are not intended to abrogate,
annul or otherwise interfere with any easement, covenant or any other private
agreement of legal relationship, provided that when the provisions of this
zoning ordinance impose a greater restriction than imposed by such private
agreement, the provisions of this zoning ordinance shall control. (Ord. 2009-3,
5-12-2009)
8-1A-8: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   A.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title, upon the
use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings, are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provisions of this title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall govern, unless the provisions of
the statute do not expressly allow greater restrictions or such greater
restrictions cannot be reasonably implied from expressed statutory authority,
then in that event the statute controls.
   B.   No building, structure, or use which was not lawfully existing at the
time of the adoption of this title shall become or be made lawful solely by
reason of the adoption of this title; and to the extent that, and in any manner
that said unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict with the
requirements of this title, said building, structure, or use remains unlawful
hereunder.
   C.   Nothing contained in this title shall be deemed to be a consent,
license, or permit to use any property or to locate, construct, or maintain any
building, structure, or facility or to carry on any trade, industry,
occupation, or activity.
   D.   The provisions in this title are additional limitations upon all other
laws and ordinances, heretofore passed or which may be passed hereafter,
governing any subject matter in this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-1A-9: VALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare any part of this
title to be invalid, such ruling shall not affect any other provisions of this
title not specifically included in said ruling.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall declare invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular land, parcel, lot,
district, use, building or structure, such ruling shall not affect the
application of said provision to any other land, parcel, lot, district, use,
building, or structure not specifically included in said ruling. (Ord. 2009-3,
5-12-2009)
CHAPTER 2
ORGANIZATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE A. ORGANIZATION
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Administration
8-2A-2: Authority Of The Zoning Administrator
8-2A-3: Zoning Board Of Appeals
8-2A-4: Actions Subject To Administrative Review
8-2A-5: Actions Subject To De Novo Review
8-2A-6: Time For Seeking Review
8-2A-7: Due Process Requirement
8-2A-1: ADMINISTRATION:
The administration of this title is hereby vested in the following:
   A.   Zoning administrator.
   B.   Zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2A-2: AUTHORITY OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The zoning administrator is hereby designated pursuant to 55 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-12008, as from time to time amended, to enforce this title, and in
furtherance of such authority shall receive and review applications for permits
to erect buildings or structures, or to alter or remodel existing buildings or
structures, and shall have the power to make orders, requirements, decisions
and determinations with respect to the enforcement of the terms of this title
and to:
   A.   Administer all procedures concerning permits when such permits are
required by this title, and in connection therewith shall:
      1.   Review all applications for construction permits required herein;
issue such permits for application conforming with the regulations of this
title; and make such periodic inspections during construction as may be
necessary to ensure compliance with this title;
      2.   Upon completion of construction, or upon application for an
occupancy permit for a change of use, inspect the premises and issue an
occupancy permit if such construction or change of use complies with the
regulations of this title;
      3.   Review applications for temporary occupancy permits and issue such
temporary occupancy permits for applications conforming to the regulations of
this title;
      4.   Maintain records of all applications and permits;
   B.   Make such investigations, decisions and determinations of requirements,
and issue such violation notices and compliance orders as are necessary to
enforce this title, and keep records of such notices and orders;
   C.   Decide or make recommendations on all other matters under this title
upon which the zoning administrator is required to act;
   D.   Receive petitions for variations, amendments, and special use permits
that are to be referred to the zoning board of appeals or other appropriate
reviewing body;
   E.   Maintain permanent and current records of this title, including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments, special uses, variations, appeals and
applications therefor; and revise the zoning district map to show all
amendments thereto;
   F.   Maintain and provide public information relative to all matters arising
out of this title; and
   G.   Collect fees as authorized by the county board. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-2A-3: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Creation: The zoning board of appeals of Jo Daviess County ("zoning
board") is hereby created in accordance with Illinois law, including 55
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-12010.
   B.   Membership And Term Of Office:
      1.   Appointment Of Zoning Board: The chairperson of the county board,
with advice and consent of the county board shall appoint a zoning board of
appeals consisting of five (5) members. One of the members so appointed shall
be named as chair at the time of his/her appointment, and in case of vacancy
the chairperson of the county board shall designate a chairperson.
      2.   Additional Members: The chairperson of the county board, with the
advice and consent of the county board may appoint two (2) additional members
to the zoning board.
      3.   Terms Of Membership On Zoning Board: The zoning board shall consist
of five (5) members to serve, respectively, for the following initial terms:
         a.   One member for one year;
         b.   One member for two (2) years;
         c.   One member for three (3) years;
         d.   One member for four (4) years; and
         e.   One member for five (5) years.
Thereafter, each member of the zoning board shall serve for a term of five (5)
years. The additional members so appointed shall serve a term of five (5)
years. At the end of the term of the two (2) additional members, the county
board may provide for the appointment of successors in the same manner or may
allow the board of appeals to revert to a membership of five (5).
      4.   Residency Of Members Of Zoning Board: All members of the zoning
board shall be residents of separate townships at the time of their
appointment.
      5.   Alternate Members Of The Zoning Board: The chairperson of the county
board may appoint two (2) persons to the zoning board, subject to confirmation
by majority vote of the members of the county board, who shall serve as
alternates for the other members of the board. Such alternates shall serve
respectively, for the following initial terms:
         a.   One alternate for four (4) years;
         b.   One alternate for five (5) years.
Thereafter each alternate member of the zoning board shall serve a term of five
(5) years. Alternate members of the zoning board may reside in any township,
provided that they do not reside in the same township as any other member at
the time of their appointment.
Alternate members, if appointed, shall serve as members of the board only in
the absence of regular members, with the alternate member who has the greatest
amount of time remaining in his or her term to have priority over the other
alternate members in determining which alternate member shall serve in the
absence of a regular member.
      6.   Removal: The county board chairperson shall have the power to remove
any member of the zoning board for cause, after a public hearing.
      7.   Vacancies On Zoning Board: Vacancies shall be filled by the
chairperson of the county board for the unexpired term of any member whose
place has become vacant.
   C.   Jurisdiction And Authority: The zoning board is hereby vested with the
following jurisdiction and authority:
      1.   Appeals Of An Administrative Decision Interpreting/Enforcing The
Ordinance: Hear and decide appeals from and review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the zoning administrator.
      2.   Variation: To hear and decide, after public hearing, variations from
strict application of this title, in accordance with Illinois law, including 55
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-12010. On a particular appeal for a variation
from strict application of this title, the zoning board shall determine whether
the requested variation would be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of the ordinance, and whether there are practical difficulties or particular
hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of any such regulations
relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or structures or
the use of land.
      3.   Special Use Permits: To hear applications for special use permits in
the manner set forth and under the standards established in article D of this
chapter, and, after public hearing, report its finding(s) and make its
recommendation(s) to the county board. The county board may accept or reject,
in whole or in part, the finding(s) and/or recommendation(s) of the zoning
board on such applications for special use permit(s), and may refer any such
application back to the zoning board for further hearing(s), finding(s), and/or
recommendation(s).
      4.   Amendments: To hear applications for amendment(s) to this title, in
the manner set forth and under the standards established in article E of this
chapter, and, after the public hearing, report its finding(s) and make its
recommendation(s) to the county board. The county board may accept or reject,
in whole or in part, the finding(s) and/or recommendation(s) of the zoning
board on such applications for amendment(s), and may refer any such application
back to the zoning board for further hearing(s), finding(s), and/or
recommendation(s).
   D.   Meetings And Rules:
      1.   Time And Place: All meetings of the zoning board shall be held at
the call of the chairperson and at such times and places within the county as
the zoning board may determine.
      2.   Open To The Public: All meetings of the zoning board shall be open
to the public.
      3.   Minutes: The zoning board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and
other official actions.
      4.   Public Record: Every rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal
thereof, and order, requirement, decision or determination of the zoning board
shall immediately be filed in the office of the board and shall be a public
record.
      5.   Oaths; Witnesses: The chairperson, or in his absence the acting
chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
      6.   Notice: Where a public hearing before the zoning board is required
by this title, unless otherwise specified to the contrary elsewhere in this
title, notice of each hearing shall be published at least fifteen (15) days in
advance thereof in a newspaper of general circulation published in the township
or road district in which such property is located. If no newspaper is
published in such township or road district, then such notice shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation published in the county and
having jurisdiction where such property is located.
      7.   Expenses: In the performance of its duties, the zoning board may
incur such expenses as are authorized by the county board.
      8.   Compensation Of The Zoning Board: The members of the zoning board
shall be compensated on a per diem basis with a mileage allowance for travel,
the amounts to be determined by the county board.
      9.   Decisions Of The Zoning Board: The concurring vote of three (3)
members of a board consisting of five (5) members, or the concurring vote of
four (4) members of a board consisting of seven (7) members is necessary to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the zoning
administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it
is required to pass under any such ordinance or resolution, or to effect any
variation in such ordinance or resolution to the county board. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-
12-2009)
8-2A-4: ACTIONS SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
All final administrative decisions of the zoning board hereunder shall be
subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the administrative
review law 1  and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules
adopted pursuant thereto. The term "administrative decision" is defined as in
section 3-101 of the code of civil procedure. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
8-2A-5: ACTIONS SUBJECT TO DE NOVO REVIEW:
Any decision by the county board in regard to any petition or application for a
special use, variance, rezoning, or other amendment to a zoning ordinance shall
be subject to de novo judicial review as a legislative decision, regardless of
whether the process in relation thereto is considered administrative for other
purposes. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2A-6: TIME FOR SEEKING REVIEW:
Any action seeking the judicial review of such a decision shall be commenced
not later than ninety (90) days after the date of the decision 1 . (Ord. 2009-
3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-12012.1.
8-2A-7: DUE PROCESS REQUIREMENT:
The principles of substantive and procedural due process apply at all stages of
the decision making and review of all zoning decisions. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
ARTICLE B. APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
8-2B-1: Persons Who May Appeal
8-2B-2: Requests For Consideration
8-2B-3: Time For Taking Appeals Of Zoning Administrator's Decisions
8-2B-4: Procedure For Appeals
8-2B-5: Decision Of Appeals
8-2B-6: Finality Of Zoning Decisions Of The Zoning Board For Administrative
Appeals
8-2B-7: Records Of Appeals
8-2B-8: Time For Taking Appeals
8-2B-1: PERSONS WHO MAY APPEAL:
An appeal may be taken to the zoning board of appeals by any person aggrieved
or by an officer, department, board or bureau of Jo Daviess County affected by
any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the zoning administrator
relative to the interpretation of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2B-2: REQUESTS FOR CONSIDERATION:
Prior to taking of an appeal, the aggrieved person may file, within thirty (30)
days of the decision, a request for reconsideration with the office of the
zoning administrator. The request for reconsideration shall specify the grounds
for the request. Upon receipt of the request for reconsideration, the zoning
administrator shall, within thirty (30) days, prepare a written answer to the
aggrieved person's request. Such answer shall include findings of fact,
conclusions, and a final decision. This document shall be signed by the zoning
administrator and thereafter forwarded to the aggrieved person. (Ord. 2009-3,
5-12-2009)
8-2B-3: TIME FOR TAKING APPEALS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR'S DECISIONS:
An appeal from a decision of the zoning administrator shall be taken within
ninety (90) days of receipt of the final decision of the zoning administrator,
unless, some other time is fixed by the zoning board of appeals pursuant to 55
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-12011. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2B-4: PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS:
   A.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the zoning administrator certifies to the zoning board, after the
notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason of the facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in the zoning administrator's opinion, cause an
eminent peril to life or property, in which case proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by the zoning
board or by a court on application, on notice to the zoning administrator and
on due cause shown.
   B.   The zoning board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2B-5: DECISION OF APPEALS:
The zoning board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be
made in the premises, and to that end shall have all the powers of the zoning
administrator. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2B-6: FINALITY OF ZONING DECISIONS OF THE ZONING BOARD FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
APPEALS:
All final administrative decisions of the zoning board hereunder shall be
subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the administrative
review law 1  and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules
adopted pursuant thereto. The term "administrative decision" is defined as in
section 3-101 of the code of civil procedure 2 . (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
2 2. 735 ILCS 5/3-101.
8-2B-7: RECORDS OF APPEALS:
The zoning administrator shall maintain complete records of all actions of the
zoning board with respect to appeals, and shall keep the county board informed
on the current basis of the disposition of each case. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2B-8: TIME FOR TAKING APPEALS:
Appeals from final zoning decisions of the county board must be filed within
ninety (90) days unless a shorter filing period is required by another law.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE C. VARIATIONS
SECTION:
8-2C-1: Administrative Variation As To Location Or Bulk Of Structures
8-2C-2: Procedure For Variations
8-2C-3: Authorized Variations
8-2C-1: ADMINISTRATIVE VARIATION AS TO LOCATION OR BULK OF STRUCTURES:
If an application is made for a variation of ten percent (10%) or less of the
regulations of this title governing the location of structures or as to the
bulk requirements under this title, such variation may be granted by the zoning
administrator without a public hearing, provided that, before such variation is
granted, a notice of intent to grant such is sent by certified mail to all
adjoining landowners, and no adjoining landowner files a written objection with
the zoning administrator within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice of
intent. If within fifteen (15) days after receiving such notice of intent, an
adjoining landowner files a written objection to such variation with the zoning
administrator, then the requested variation shall be heard and decided, after a
public hearing, by the zoning board in accordance with this article. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2C-2: PROCEDURE FOR VARIATIONS:
   A.   Process: All variations, except for administrative variations as
described herein, shall be made only by ordinance, resolution or otherwise in a
specific case and after a public hearing before the zoning board.
      1.   Applications For Variations: An application for a variation shall be
filed with the zoning administrator in such form and accompanied by such
information as may be required by the zoning administrator.
      2.   Public Hearing: The zoning administrator shall deliver the
application to the zoning board who shall hold a public hearing on each
application for a variation at such time and place as shall be established by
the zoning board.
      3.   Standards For Variations: The zoning board of appeals shall make
findings of fact based upon the evidence presented to it specifying the reason
for making such variation including findings with respect to the following
standards:
         a.   The physical surroundings' shape or topographical conditions of
the specific property will cause practical difficulties or a particular
hardship to the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the
strict letter of the regulations were carried out.
         b.   The conditions upon which a petition for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property within the same zoning classification.
         c.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property.
         d.   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this title and
has not been created by persons presently having an interest in the property.
         e.   The granting of the variation will not alter the essential
character of the locality, and will not be detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the
property is located.
         f.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of
the public street, or increase the danger of fire or flooding, or endanger the
public safety, or substantially diminish or impair property values within the
neighborhood.
         g.   The variation requested is the minimum variation that will make
possible the reasonable use of the land or structure.
   B.   Notice Published: There shall be at least fifteen (15) days' notice of
the date, time, and place of such public hearing published in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the township or road district in which the
subject property is located. If no newspaper is published in such township or
road district, then such notice shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation published in Jo Daviess County having circulation where such
property is located. Costs or charges for publication of such notice shall be
paid by the petitioner or applicant.
   C.   Notice To Contain Certain Information: The notice of public hearing for
a variation shall contain:
      1.   The particular location of the real estate for which the variation
is requested by legal description and street address, and if no street address
then by locating such real estate with reference to any well known landmark,
highway, road, thoroughfare or intersection;
      2.   Whether or not the petitioner or applicant is acting for himself or
in the capacity of agent, alter ego, or representative of a principal, and
stating the name and address of the actual and true principal;
      3.   Whether petitioner or applicant is a corporation, and if a
corporation, the correct names and addresses of all officers and directors, and
of all stockholders or shareholders owning any interest in excess of twenty
percent (20%) of all outstanding stock of such corporation;
      4.   Whether the petitioner or applicant, or his principal if other than
the applicant, is a business or entity doing business under an assumed name,
and if so, the name and residence of all true and actual owners of such
business or entity;
      5.   Whether the petitioner for application is a partnership, joint
venture, syndicate or an unincorporated voluntary association, and if so, the
names and addresses of all partners, joint ventures, syndicate members or
members of the unincorporated voluntary association; and
      6.   A brief statement of what the proposed variation consists.
   D.   Conditions And Restrictions On Neighborhood Property: The zoning board
may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited by a
variation as may be necessary to comply with the standards set out in this
title to reduce or minimize the effect of such variation upon other property in
the neighborhood and to better carry out the general intent of this title.
   E.   Finality Of Zoning Decisions Of The Zoning Board For Variations: The
decision and findings of the zoning board on an application for variation,
after a public hearing, shall, except as provided in subsection F of this
section, be final.
   F.   Objection Of Townships In Certain Cases: If a township located within
the county has a plan commission, and the plan commission objects to a zoning
variation which affects unincorporated areas of the township, the township
board of trustees within fifteen (15) days after the public hearing before the
board of appeals on such zoning variation, may submit its written objections to
the county board of the county where the unincorporated areas of the township
are located. In such case, the county board shall not approve the zoning
variation, except by the favorable vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all members
of the county board. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2C-3: AUTHORIZED VARIATIONS:
   A.   Variations from the regulations of this title may be granted only in
the following instances, and in no others, except as otherwise provided herein:
      1.   To permit setback or yard less than the setback or yard required by
this title;
      2.   To permit any building or structure to exceed the height limitations
imposed by this title;
      3.   To permit the use of a lot for a use otherwise prohibited solely
because of insufficient area of the lot;
      4.   To permit variations in the required off street parking imposed by
this title;
      5.   To permit variations in the required lighting regulations imposed by
this title;
      6.   To permit variations in the required supplemental regulations as
imposed by this title;
      7.   Exceptionally unique circumstances, as determined by the planning
and zoning board upon the recommendation of the zoning administrator, that
would involve instances other than or more extreme than allowed above, may be
considered as a variation from the regulations of this title. (Ord. 2012-3, 2-
14-2012)
ARTICLE D. SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
8-2D-1: Definition
8-2D-2: Notice
8-2D-3: Additional Notice
8-2D-4: Necessity To Meet Standards
8-2D-5: Additional Compliance
8-2D-6: Action By The Zoning Board Of Appeals And County Board
8-2D-7: Duration Of The Special Use Permit
8-2D-1: DEFINITION:
Special uses may include, but are not limited to, public and quasi-public uses
affecting the public interest; uses that have a unique, special, or unusual
impact upon the use or enjoyment of neighboring property; and uses that affect
planned development. A use may be permitted in one or more zoning districts and
may be a special use in one or more other zoning districts. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-2D-2: NOTICE:
A special use may be granted only after a public hearing conducted by the board
of appeals. There must be at least fifteen (15) days' notice before the
hearing. The notice must include the time, place, and date of the hearing and
must be published in a newspaper published in the township or road district
where the property is located. If there is no newspaper published in the
township or road district where the property is located, the notice must be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county. The petitioner
or applicant must pay the cost of the publication of the notice required by
this section. The notice must also contain:
   A.   The particular location of the property for which the special use is
requested by legal description and by street address, or if there is no street
address, by locating the property with reference to any well known landmark,
highway, road, thoroughfare, or intersection;
   B.   Whether the petitioner or applicant is acting for himself or herself or
as an agent, alter ego, or representative of a principal and the name and
address of the principal;
   C.   Whether the petitioner or applicant is a corporation, and if so, the
correct names and addresses of all officers and directors of the corporation
and of all stockholders or shareholders owning any interest in excess of twenty
percent (20%) of all of the outstanding stock or shares of the corporation;
   D.   Whether the petitioner or applicant, or his or her principal, is a
business or entity doing business under an assumed name, and if so, the name
and residence of all actual owners of the business or entity;
   E.   Whether the petitioner or applicant, or his or her principal, is a
partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or an unincorporated voluntary
association, and if so, the names and addresses of all partners or members of
the partnership, joint venture, syndicate, or unincorporated voluntary
association; and
   F.   A brief statement of the proposed special use. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2D-3: ADDITIONAL NOTICE:
In addition to any other notice required by this article, the board of appeals
must give at least fifteen (15) days' notice before the hearing to:
   A.   Any municipality whose boundaries are within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of any part of the property proposed as a special use; and
   B.   The owner or owners of any land adjacent to or immediately across any
street, alley or public right of way from the property proposed as a special
use. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2D-4: NECESSITY TO MEET STANDARDS:
A special use may be granted only upon evidence that the special use meets the
standards established for that classification in the ordinance. The special use
may be subject to conditions reasonably necessary to meet those standards. In
addition to any standards or conditions that may be applicable to a specific
special use, the following general standards shall apply to all special uses:
   A.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will not
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, or general welfare.
   B.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other
property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted or
substantially diminish and impair values within the neighborhood.
   C.   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the district.
   D.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and/or other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided.
   E.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress designated to minimize traffic congestion in public streets. (Ord. 2009-
3, 5-12-2009)
8-2D-5: ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE:
The special use shall in all other respects conform to the applicable
regulations of the district in which it is located. In addition, the special
use shall meet any applicable standards set forth in this title which specify
additional standards to that specific special use as defined in this title.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2D-6: ACTION BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS AND COUNTY BOARD:
The board of appeals shall report to the county board a finding of fact and a
recommendation as to whether the county board should deny, grant, or grant
subject to conditions the special use. The county board may, by ordinance and
without a further public hearing, adopt any proposed special use on receiving
the report, deny the request for special use, or it may refer the proposal back
to the board of appeals for further consideration. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2D-7: DURATION OF THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
No ordinance granting a special use permit shall be valid for a period longer
than one year from the date of such ordinance unless the erection of a building
or structure is started or the use is commenced within such a period, unless
such time period is extended through appeal to and approval by the zoning board
of appeals. If no appeal is made, or no extension of time is received or
granted, the permit shall immediately terminate upon expiration of the one year
period. Upon granting of a special use permit, the county board may stipulate a
period longer than one year to commence the authorized use considering the
nature of said use. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE E. AMENDMENT OF REGULATIONS AND DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-2E-1: Types Of Amendments
8-2E-2: Authority To Amend; Who May File
8-2E-3: Hearing Requirement
8-2E-4: Place Of Hearings
8-2E-5: Zoning Board Procedures
8-2E-6: County Board Voting Requirements To Amend
8-2E-1: TYPES OF AMENDMENTS:
For purposes of this article, the term "text amendment" means an amendment to
the text of a zoning ordinance, which affects the whole county, and the term
"map amendment" means an amendment to the map of a zoning ordinance, which
affects an individual parcel or parcels of land. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2E-2: AUTHORITY TO AMEND; WHO MAY FILE:
   A.   The regulations imposed and the districts created under the authority
of this title may be amended from time to time by ordinance or resolution,
after the ordinance or resolution establishing same has gone into effect.
Amendments may be proposed by the county board, zoning board, any property
owner, or a person or organization with a property interest in the subject
property.
   B.   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the zoning
administrator, who after ascertaining it contains the information required by
this title shall forward the application to the zoning board. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-
12-2009)
8-2E-3: HEARING REQUIREMENT:
No such amendments shall be made without a hearing before the zoning board. At
least fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation published in such county. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2E-4: PLACE OF HEARINGS:
   A.   Hearings on text amendments shall be held in the courthouse of the
county or other county building with more adequate facilities for such
hearings.
   B.   Hearings on map amendments shall be held in the township or road
district affected by the terms of such proposed amendment or in the courthouse,
or other county building with more adequate facilities for such hearings, of
the county in which the affected township or road district is located.
Provided, that if the owner of any property affected by such proposed map
amendment so requests in writing, such hearing shall be held in the township or
road district affected by the terms of such proposed amendment. (Ord. 2009-3,
5-12-2009)
8-2E-5: ZONING BOARD PROCEDURES:
The zoning board upon receipt of the application from the zoning administrator
shall:
   A.   Conduct a hearing as required by this title within a reasonable period
of time, and
   B.   Consider the following factors:
      1.   Existing uses and zoning of nearby property;
      2.   Extent to which property values are diminished by particular zoning
restrictions;
      3.   Extent to which destruction of value of plaintiff's property
promotes the health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the public;
      4.   Relative gain to public compared to hardship imposed upon individual
property owner;
      5.   Suitability of subject property for zoned purposes, including, but
not limited to, LESA score;
      6.   Length of time the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in
context of land development in vicinity;
      7.   Community need for the proposed use; and
      8.   Care with which community has undertaken to plan its land use
development.
Although no one factor is determinative as to validity of the appropriateness
of an amendment, the primary concern is whether the property in question is
proposed to be zoned in conformity with surrounding uses and whether those uses
are uniform and established.
   C.   Make a recommendation to the county board based upon its consideration
of the factors listed in this section which may include terms and conditions of
approval. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2E-6: COUNTY BOARD VOTING REQUIREMENTS TO AMEND:
   A.   Text Amendments: Text amendments may be passed at a county board
meeting by a simple majority of the elected county board members, except that
in the following circumstances, a vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all of the
members of the county board shall be required:
      1.   Written protests against the proposed text amendment are signed by
five percent (5%) of the landowners of the county;
      2.   The corporate authorities of the zoned municipality with limits
nearest adjacent, file a duly adopted resolution objecting to the amendment
with the county. In such cases, a copy of the written protest shall be served
by the protestor or protestors on the applicant for the proposed amendment and
a copy upon the applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address
of such applicant and attorney shown in the application for the proposed
amendment; or
      3.   As to text amendments that affect an unincorporated area of a
township located within Jo Daviess County that has a plan commission and the
plan commission objects to a text amendment, and the township board of trustees
submits its written objections to the county board within thirty (30) days
after the hearing before the board of appeals.
   B.   Map Amendments: Map amendments may be passed at a county board meeting
by a simple majority of the elected county board members, except that in the
following circumstances, a vote of three- fourths (3/4) of all of the members
of the county board shall be required:
      1.   In case of written protest against any proposed map amendment that
is either:
         a.   Signed by the owner or owners of at least twenty percent (20%) of
the land to be rezoned; or
         b.   Signed by the owner or owners of land immediately touching, or
immediately across a street, alley, or public right of way from at least twenty
percent (20%) of the perimeter of the land to be rezoned; or
         c.   In cases where the land affected lies within one and one-half
(11/2) miles of the limits of a zoned municipality, and that municipality has
duly adopted a resolution objecting to the amendment and filed the objection
with the county clerk.
      2.   In such cases, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the
protestor or protestors on the applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy
upon the applicant's attorney, if any, by certified mail at the address of such
applicant and attorney shown in the application for the proposed amendment.
   C.   Votes Required With Township Protests: If a township located within Jo
Daviess County has a plan commission, and the plan commission objects to a text
amendment or a map amendment affecting an unincorporated area of the township,
then the township board of trustees may submit its written objections to the
county board within thirty (30) days after the hearing before the board of
appeals, in which case the county board may not adopt the text amendment or the
map amendment affecting an unincorporated area of the township except by the
favorable vote of at least three-fourths (3/4) of all the members of the county
board.
   D.   Rezoning Error: Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, if
a map amendment is proposed solely to correct an error made by the county as a
result of a comprehensive rezoning by the county, the map amendments may be
passed at a county board meeting by a simple majority of the elected board.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE F. PERMITS AND FEES
SECTION:
8-2F-1: Zoning Certificate
8-2F-2: Fees
8-2F-1: ZONING CERTIFICATE:
When a building permit is required by any ordinance of this code the zoning
administrator, or his/her authorized assistants or deputies, shall examine the
application for such permit and/or certificate, and if such application and
supporting documents show that the proposed project is in compliance with the
regulations of this title, shall issue a zoning certificate indicating the
zoning district wherein the property is located. Where the zoning administrator
of Jo Daviess County has issued a zoning certificate for a permitted use or
special use, such permit shall become null and void unless work thereon is
substantially under way within one year of the date of the issuance of such
permit, or within the period of time beyond one year granted by the county
board. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2F-2: FEES:
Fees for appeals, variations, map amendments, text amendments, concept plans
for planned unit developments, planned developments, special use permits and
zoning certificate or any type of request shall be as established by resolution
of the county board. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE G. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
8-2G-1: Violation And Enforcement
8-2G-2: Penalty
8-2G-1: VIOLATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this title, or other regulation under authority
conferred hereby, the proper authorities of the county or of the township in
which the building, structure or land is located, or any person the value or
use of whose property is or may be affected by such violation, in addition to
other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceedings in the
circuit court to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, to restrain, correct, or
abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said building, structure or
land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about such
premises. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-2G-2: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the terms of this title shall be guilty of a petty
offense punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), with
each week the violation remains uncorrected constituting a separate offense.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
CHAPTER 3
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Preamble
8-3-2: Districts Established
8-3-3: Zoning Maps
8-3-4: Boundaries
8-3-5: Zoning Of Public Ways, Waterways And Railroad Rights Of Way
8-3-1: PREAMBLE:
The various zoning districts and their boundaries on the zoning district map
are related to implementing the preservation and improvement of areas
characterized by existing buildings and structures and uses conforming with the
district regulations of the district in which they are located, and to the
expansion of the various districts in order to ensure managed development,
directed to areas best able to support it in order to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of Jo Daviess County, and to
ensure that county revenues can be used efficiently. It is essential that areas
for the various land use categories be designated in the proper location and
proportion to encourage and accommodate careful and planned use of the land to
allow for growth and development while preserving natural resources, scenic
beauty and the rural character of the county. These regulations are consistent
with the Jo Daviess County comprehensive plan adopted September 14, 1999. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3-2: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to accomplish the purposes and intent of this title and the objectives
set forth in the preamble of this chapter, the unincorporated portions of Jo
Daviess County, Illinois, are hereby organized in the following districts:
AG  Agricultural district
R-1 Single-family residential district
R-2 Two-family residential district
C   Commercial district
M   General manufacturing district
I   Industrial district
PD  Planned development district
RP  Planned residential district
CON Conservation district
 
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3-3: ZONING MAPS:
The boundaries of the districts listed above are as shown on the zoning map for
Jo Daviess County, Illinois. A copy of this map may be found on file in the
office of the zoning administrator of Jo Daviess County. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-3-4: BOUNDARIES:
District boundaries shall be either the centerlines of railroads, highways,
streets, alleys or easements, and waterways, or the boundary lines of sections,
quarter sections, divisions of sections, tracts or lots (or such extended),
unless otherwise indicated. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3-5: ZONING OF PUBLIC WAYS, WATERWAYS AND RAILROAD RIGHTS OF WAY:
All streets, alleys, public ways, waterways, and railroad rights of way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways,
waterways and railroad rights of way. Where the centerline of a street, alley,
public way, waterway or railroad right of way serves as a district boundary,
the zoning of such areas, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be
deemed to be the same as that as the abutting property up to such centerline.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE A. AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Intent
8-3A-2: Permitted Uses
8-3A-3: Special Uses
8-3A-4: Intensity Of Use Regulations
8-3A-5: Height Regulations
8-3A-6: Setback Requirements
8-3A-7: Conversion Of Agricultural Residence To Nonagricultural Residence
8-3A-8: Sign Regulations
8-3A-1: INTENT:
It is recognized that the public health and welfare of the citizens of Jo
Daviess County are greatly dependent upon the sustenance and economic benefits
provided by a diverse and viable agricultural industry. Agricultural land is
under development pressure from expanding unincorporated areas and rural
residential demand. This development pressure takes the form of random
development, brings conflicting land uses into juxtaposition, creates high
costs for public services, stimulates land speculation and threatens the rural
characteristics of the county which are important to not only agriculture but
also to the tourism sector of the economy.
The Jo Daviess County comprehensive plan indicates that productive agricultural
land constitutes a unique and irreplaceable resource. It is the purpose of the
agricultural district to provide a means by which agricultural land may be
protected and enhanced as an economic and environmental resource of major
importance to the county. Therefore, the agricultural district is intended to
accomplish the following objectives:
   A.   Preserve agriculturally productive farmland for agriculture, unless
there are substantial reasons for not doing so.
   B.   Protect agriculturally productive farmland from incompatible
nonagricultural uses.
   C.   Foster efficient land use patterns which can be effectively served by
public services.
   D.   Provide suitable locations for nonagricultural residential living that
will not conflict with productive agriculture. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3A-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Agricultural uses, and the uses set forth in section
8-5A-6, "Table", of this title.
   B.   Agricultural residences and nonagricultural residences on lots: 1)
lawfully recorded prior to March 1, 1995, or 2) lawfully recorded after March
1, 1995; provided:
      1.   Said residential use conforms with all septic and waste disposal
requirements; and
      2.   Said residence conforms to the setback requirements set forth in
section
8-3A-6 of this article; and
      3.   Said residential use was permitted by the provisions of the Jo
Daviess County zoning ordinance then in effect as of the date of the recording
of said lot.
   C.   Existing agricultural and nonagricultural residences on a lot created
by the separation of the residence from a larger lot provided all of the
following:
      1.   Existence Date Of Residence: Residence lawfully existed as of March
1, 1995.
      2.   Minimum Area: The parcel created shall not be less than two (2)
acres in size.
      3.   Minimum Width: A minimum width of one hundred fifty feet (150')
shall be maintained at the road right of way.
      4.   Compliance: All separation under this section shall comply with
Illinois law including, but not limited to, the plat act 1 .
If for any reason an existing agricultural residence that has been separated
from the agricultural lot is removed, damaged, destroyed, etc., it may be
remodeled, reconstructed or replaced, so long as a building permit is applied
for within twenty four (24) months of the demolition or removal of the
structure.
   D.   Agricultural residences provided that the minimum zoning lot size shall
be at least forty (40) acres.
   E.   Nonagricultural residences provided that the minimum zoning lot size
shall be at least forty (40) acres, and are subject to section
8-5B-33 of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/0.01.
8-3A-3: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses are allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued in
accordance with chapter 2, article D of this title. For a specific listing of
special uses see chapter 5, "Use Table And Regulations", of this title. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3A-4: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
Except as modified by the provisions of chapter 5 of this title:
   A.   Nonagricultural residences approved as a special use: Two (2) acres
minimum lot size.
   B.   Nonagricultural accessory area:
      1.   On lots less than five (5) acres: less than five thousand (5,000)
square feet.
      2.   On lots five (5) acres to less than forty (40) acres: Five thousand
(5,000) square feet for the first five acres and one thousand (1,000) square
feet for each additional acre thereafter.
      3.   On lots over forty (40) acres: not to exceed fifty thousand (50,000)
square feet.
   C.   All lots, excepting agricultural uses, shall conform to the lot
configuration regulations set forth in section
8-5B-48 of this title.
   D.   Minimum lot width: One hundred fifty feet (150') at the road right of
way. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009; amd. Ord. O2023-9, 6-13-2023)
8-3A-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Agricultural structures: No restriction.
   B.   Nonagricultural residences and structures; maximum structure height:
Thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3A-6: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: Except as specifically set forth in subsection C of this
section, every structure, principal and accessory, hereafter erected or
enlarged in this district shall provide and maintain a setback in accordance
with the following:
      1.   Public Streets:
         a.   Major highways (federal or state): Seventy five feet (75') from
the property line, or one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         b.   Primary or secondary thoroughfares (county highways): Sixty feet
(60') from the property line, or one hundred ten feet (110') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         c.   All other streets: Fifty feet (50') from the property line, or
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the right of way, whichever is
greater.
      2.   Minimum Side Yards: Not less than twenty feet (20') from an interior
side lot line.
      3.   Minimum Rear Yards: Not less than forty feet (40') from a rear lot
line.
      4.   Minimum Width: A minimum width of one hundred fifty feet (150')
shall be maintained at the road right of way.
   B.   Exterior Setback Of Any Nonagricultural Residence From A Livestock
Facility: In addition to those regulations set forth in subsection A of this
section, the minimum setback from any occupied livestock facility (occupied
with livestock at least 6 months out of the last 2 years) shall be as follows.
Animal units shall be as set forth in the livestock management act 1 .
      1.   A minimum of one-fourth (1/4) mile from an occupied livestock
facility with fifty (50) to one thousand (1,000) animal units.
      2.   For an occupied livestock facility with one thousand one (1,001) to
seven thousand (7,000) animal units, the minimum setback shall be one-half (1/
2) mile plus four hundred forty feet (440') for each additional one thousand
(1,000) animal units in excess of one thousand (1,000).
      3.   A minimum of one mile from an occupied livestock facility with more
than seven thousand (7,000) animal units.
      4.   The provisions of subsections B1, B2, and B3 of this section shall
not apply to the owner/operator of the livestock facility.
   C.   Setback Exceptions: See section
8-4A-3 of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 77/1 et seq.
8-3A-7: CONVERSION OF AGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE TO NONAGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE:
If an agricultural residence has lawfully been established it may subsequently
be a permitted use as a nonagricultural residence if the following conditions
are met:
   A.   The zoning lot size and dimensions have not changed since the
establishment of the agricultural residential use or a nonagricultural
residence would otherwise be permitted under this title; and
   B.   The necessary permits were previously obtained when the agricultural
residence was established or the necessary permits are obtained when the
residence is converted to a nonagricultural residence. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3A-8: SIGN REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article C of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE B. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Intent
8-3B-2: Permitted Uses
8-3B-3: Special Uses
8-3B-4: Intensity Of Use Regulations
8-3B-5: Height Regulations
8-3B-6: Setback Requirements
8-3B-7: Lighting Regulations
8-3B-8: Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations
8-3B-9: Sign Regulations
8-3B-1: INTENT:
The R-1 single-family residential district is intended to provide low density
single-family dwelling use and to allow certain public facilities. It is
intended that no uses be permitted within the R-1 district that will tend to
devalue property for residential purposes or interfere with the health, safety,
or general welfare of persons residing in the district. The provisions of the
R-1 district are also intended to control density of population and provide
adequate open space around buildings and structures in the district to
accomplish these purposes. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Generally, single-family dwellings and amenities as listed in chapter 5 of this
title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3B-3: SPECIAL USES:
For a specific listing of special uses, see chapter 5 of this title. Special
uses are allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued in accordance
with chapter 2, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3B-4: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
Except as modified by the provisions of chapter 5 of this title:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Not less than one acre for each dwelling unit served by individual
private sewage disposal system or individual water supply system, subject to
approval by the Jo Daviess County health department.
      2.   Not less than twenty two thousand five hundred (22,500) square feet
for each dwelling unit served by a public or community sanitary sewer and water
system, subject to approval by the Jo Daviess County health department.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width At Street Right Of Way: One hundred feet (100').
   C.   Lot Configuration: All lots shall conform to the square footage/
perimeter ratio standards set forth in section
8-5B-48 of this title.
   D.   Maximum Lot Coverage: Twenty percent (20%).
   E.   Accessory Buildings: Total area of accessory buildings, including
attached garages, shall not exceed the following:
      1.   On lots one acre to one and forty nine hundredths (1.49) acres: One
thousand nine hundred fifty (1,950) square feet;
      2.   On lots one and five-tenths (1.5) acres or more: Two thousand four
hundred (2,400) square feet. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3B-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Principal Structure: Not more than thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Accessory Structure: The sidewall of an accessory structure shall not
exceed fourteen feet (14') in height. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3B-6: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: Except as set forth in subsection B of this section,
every structure, principal and accessory, hereafter erected or enlarged in this
district shall provide and maintain a setback in accordance with the following:
      1.   Public Streets:
         a.   Major highways (federal or state): Seventy five feet (75') from
the property line, or one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         b.   Primary or secondary thoroughfares (county highways): Sixty feet
(60') from the property line, or one hundred ten feet (110') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         c.   All other streets: Fifty (50) feet from the property line, or
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the right of way, whichever is
greater.
      2.   Minimum Interior Side Yards: Not less than twenty feet (20') from an
interior side lot line.
      3.   Minimum Rear Yards: Not less than forty feet (40') from a rear lot
line.
   B.   Exterior Setback From A Livestock Facility: In addition to those
regulations set forth in subsection A of this section, the minimum setback from
any occupied livestock facility (occupied with livestock at least 6 months out
of the last 2 years) shall be as follows. Animal units shall be as set forth in
the livestock management act 1 .
      1.   A minimum of one-fourth (1/4) mile from an occupied livestock
facility with fifty (50) to one thousand (1,000) animal units.
      2.   For an occupied livestock facility with one thousand one (1,001) to
seven thousand (7,000) animal units, the minimum setback shall be one-half (1/
2) mile plus four hundred forty feet (440') for each additional one thousand
(1,000) animal units in excess of one thousand (1,000).
      3.   A minimum of one mile from an occupied livestock facility with more
than seven thousand (7,000) animal units. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 77/1 et seq.
8-3B-7: LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article E of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3B-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3B-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article C of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE C. R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Intent
8-3C-2: Permitted Uses
8-3C-3: Special Uses
8-3C-4: Intensity Of Use Regulations
8-3C-5: Height Regulations
8-3C-6: Setback Requirements
8-3C-7: Lighting Regulations
8-3C-8: Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations
8-3C-9: Sign Regulations
8-3C-1: INTENT:
The intent of the R-2 two-family residential district is to provide for
moderate density residential development, including higher density single-
family and two-family dwellings, in a manner which will encourage a strong
residential neighborhood within a contiguous growth area of a municipality.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Generally, two-family dwellings, single-family dwellings and amenities as
listed in chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3C-3: SPECIAL USES:
For a specific listing of special uses, see chapter 5 of this title. Special
uses are allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued in accordance
with chapter 2, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3C-4: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
Except as modified by the provisions of chapter 5 of this title:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area:
      1.   Not less than twenty two thousand five hundred (22,500) square feet
for each dwelling unit served by individual private sewage disposal system,
subject to approval by the Jo Daviess County health department.
      2.   Not less than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet for each dwelling
unit served by a public or community sanitary sewer and water system, subject
to approval by the Jo Daviess County health department.
      3.   Not less than nine thousand six hundred (9,600) square feet for each
dwelling unit served by both water and sewer service provided by public or
community systems and where all lots are served by a fire hydrant system
approved by the fire department having jurisdiction.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width At Street Right Of Way:
      1.   One hundred feet (100') for lots more than twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet.
      2.   Eighty feet (80') for lots less than twelve thousand (12,000) square
feet.
      3.   On lots off of a cul-de-sac the minimum lot frontage shall be eighty
feet (80') at the road right of way.
   C.   Lot Configuration: All lots shall conform to the square footage/
perimeter ratio standards set forth in section
8-5B-48 of this title.
   D.   Maximum Lot Coverage: Thirty percent (30%).
   E.   Accessory Buildings: Total area of accessory buildings, including
attached garages, shall not exceed the following:
      1.   On lots 0.22 acre to 0.74 acre: One thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet;
      2.   On lots 0.75 acre to 0.99 acre: One thousand seven hundred twenty
five (1,725) square feet;
      3.   On lots 1.00 acre to 1.49 acres: One thousand nine hundred fifty
(1,950) square feet;
      4.   On lots 1.5 acres or more: Two thousand four hundred (2,400) square
feet. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3C-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Principal Structure: Not more than thirty five feet (35').
   B.   Accessory Structures: The sidewall of an accessory structure shall not
exceed fourteen feet (14') in height. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3C-6: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: Except as set forth in subsection B of this section,
every structure, principal and accessory, hereafter erected or enlarged in this
district shall provide and maintain a setback in accordance with the following:
      1.   Public Streets:
         a.   Major highways (federal or state): Seventy five feet (75') from
the property line, or one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         b.   Primary or secondary thoroughfares (county highways): Sixty feet
(60') from the property line, or one hundred ten feet (110') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         c.   All other streets: Fifty feet (50') from the property line, or
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the right of way, whichever is
greater.
      2.   Minimum Interior Side Yards: Not less than fifteen feet (15') from
an interior side lot line.
      3.   Minimum Rear Yards: Not less than thirty five feet (35') from a rear
lot line.
   B.   Exterior Setback From A Livestock Facility: In addition to those
regulations set forth in subsection A of this section, the minimum setback from
any occupied livestock facility (occupied with livestock at least 6 months out
of the last 2 years) shall be as follows. Animal units shall be as set forth in
the livestock management act 1 .
      1.   A minimum of one-fourth (1/4) mile from an occupied livestock
facility with fifty (50) to one thousand (1,000) animal units.
      2.   For an occupied livestock facility with one thousand one (1,001) to
seven thousand (7,000) animal units, the minimum setback shall be one-half (1/
2) mile plus four hundred forty feet (440') for each additional one thousand
(1,000) animal units in excess of one thousand (1,000).
      3.   A minimum of one mile from an occupied livestock facility with more
than seven thousand (7,000) animal units. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 77/1 et seq.
8-3C-7: LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article E of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3C-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3C-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article C of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE D. C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3D-1: Intent
8-3D-2: Permitted Uses
8-3D-3: Special Uses
8-3D-4: Intensity Of Use Regulations
8-3D-5: Height Regulations
8-3D-6: Setback Requirements
8-3D-7: Use Limitations
8-3D-8: Lighting Regulations
8-3D-9: Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations
8-3D-10: Sign Regulations
8-3D-1: INTENT:
The commercial district is intended to prevent random, unplanned, or unsightly
development along the county's public streets by promoting commercial and
office development in integrated planned developments. The commercial district
is intended to provide for the specialized types of services and businesses
that support the surrounding area or the county as a whole. The commercial
district is intended to be located in the contiguous growth areas surrounding
communities. The location and the design of the commercial district must
provide convenient and safe access to roadways. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3D-2: PERMITTED USES:
For a general listing of permitted uses see chapter 5 of this title. The
permitted uses will be determined based on compatibility with other uses
permitted in the commercial district and with uses listed in chapter 5 of this
title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3D-3: SPECIAL USES:
For a specific listing of special uses, see chapter 5 of this title. Special
uses are allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued in accordance
with chapter 2, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3D-4: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
Except as modified by the provisions of chapter 5 of this title:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be not less than one acre
and in accordance with the following:
      1.   Bulk requirements of the district;
      2.   Off street parking requirements of the district;
      3.   Driveway standards as specified in chapter 4 of this title;
      4.   Sanitary sewer requirements of the Jo Daviess County health
department; and
      5.   Any provisions specifically required for a special use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred fifty feet (150') at the street right of
way.
   C.   Floor Area Ratio (FAR): Not to exceed thirty five hundredths (0.35).
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3D-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Not more than thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3D-6: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: Except as set forth in subsection B of this section,
every structure hereafter erected or enlarged in this district shall provide
and maintain a setback in accordance with the following:
      1.   Setback From Public Streets:
         a.   Major highways (federal or state): Seventy five feet (75') from
the property line, or one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         b.   Primary or secondary thoroughfares (county highways): Sixty feet
(60') from the property line, or one hundred ten feet (110') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         c.   All other streets: Fifty feet (50') from the property line, or
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the right of way, whichever is
greater.
      2.   Minimum Interior Side Yards: Not less than ten feet (10') from an
interior side lot line.
      3.   Minimum Rear Yards: Not less than twenty feet (20') from a rear lot
line.
   B.   Exterior Setback From A Livestock Facility: In addition to those
regulations set forth in subsection A of this section, the minimum setback from
any occupied livestock facility (occupied with livestock at least 6 months out
of the last 2 years) shall be as follows. Animal units shall be as set forth in
the livestock management act 1 .
      1.   A minimum of one-fourth (1/4) mile from an occupied livestock
facility with fifty (50) to one thousand (1,000) animal units.
      2.   For an occupied livestock facility with one thousand one (1,001) to
seven thousand (7,000) animal units, the minimum setback shall be one-half (1/
2) mile plus four hundred forty feet (440') for each additional one thousand
(1,000) animal units in excess of one thousand (1,000).
      3.   A minimum of one mile from an occupied livestock facility with more
than seven thousand (7,000) animal units. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 77/1 et seq.
8-3D-7: USE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Transition Belts: A transition belt not less than twenty feet (20') in
width shall be provided along any interior rear or interior side lot line when
such lot line is adjacent to a lot zoned for any use other than commercial,
manufacturing or industrial.
   B.   Transition Screens: A transition screen shall be established in each
required transition belt. Such transition screen shall meet the landscape
specification contained in section
8-4A-9 of this title.
   C.   Business Operations: All business, storage, servicing, or processing
shall be conducted within a fully enclosed building, except as follows:
      1.   Businesses of the "drive-in" type offering goods or services
directly to customers waiting in parked motor vehicles.
      2.   Outdoor storage which does not occupy more than twenty percent (20%)
of the gross lot area as an accessory use to the principal use provided such
outdoor storage area has been specifically approved through a site plan review
by the zoning administrator.
      3.   The parking of trucks as an accessory use, when used in the conduct
of a permitted use shall be limited to vehicles of not over one and one-half
(11/2) tons' capacity when located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an
R-1 or R-2 district boundary line.
   D.   Lighting Fixtures: Exterior lighting fixtures shall be in accordance
with lighting regulations chapter 4, article E of this title.
   E.   Fencing: A solid or semisolid fence, hedge or wall at least six feet
(6'), but not more than eight feet (8') high, with no more than thirty percent
(30%) open space per square foot shall be provided adjacent to an adjoining
residential district unless the adjacent residential district and the
commercial development are separated by a street or alley right of way. Said
fence or wall shall be maintained in good condition by the owner(s) of the
property in the C district. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3D-8: LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article E of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3D-9: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3D-10: SIGN REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article C of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE E. M GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3E-1: Intent
8-3E-2: Permitted Uses
8-3E-3: Special Uses
8-3E-4: Intensity Of Use Regulations
8-3E-5: Height Regulations
8-3E-6: Setback Requirements
8-3E-7: Lighting Regulations
8-3E-8: Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations
8-3E-9: Sign Regulations
8-3E-10: Use Limitations
8-3E-1: INTENT:
The intent of the M general manufacturing district is to permit a mix of light
industrial uses that are not obnoxious due to appearance, noise, emissions, or
odor, as well as office and limited retail commercial uses in planned
industrial park settings. Uses within this district shall not require intensive
land coverage and shall be compatibly developed with adjacent districts through
site plan review. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Generally, light manufacturing, wholesaling, trucking and warehousing uses, as
well as office uses are permitted. In addition, limited retail and service uses
are permitted. For a general listing of permitted and special uses see chapter
5 of this title. The permitted uses will be determined based on compatibility
with other uses permitted in the district and with uses listed in chapter 5 of
this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3E-3: SPECIAL USES:
For a specific listing of special uses, see chapter 5 of this title. Special
uses are allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued in accordance
with chapter 2, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3E-4: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
Except as modified by the provisions of chapter 5 of this title:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be not less than three (3)
acres and in accordance with the following:
      1.   Bulk requirements of the district;
      2.   Off street parking requirements of the district;
      3.   Driveway standards as specified in chapter 4 of this title;
      4.   Sanitary sewer requirements of the Jo Daviess County health
department; and
      5.   Any provisions specifically required for a special use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred fifty feet (150') at the street right of
way.
   C.   Floor Area Ratio (FAR): Not to exceed eight-tenths (0.8). (Ord. 2009-3,
5-12-2009)
8-3E-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Not more than thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3E-6: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every structure hereafter erected or enlarged in this district shall
provide and maintain a setback in accordance with the following:
      1.   Setback From Public Streets:
         a.   Major highways (federal or state): Seventy five feet (75') from
the property line, or one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         b.   Primary or secondary thoroughfares (county highways): Sixty feet
(60') from the property line, or one hundred ten feet (110') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         c.   All other streets: Fifty feet (50') from the property line, or
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the right of way, whichever is
greater.
      2.   Minimum Interior Side Yards: Not less than twenty feet (20') from an
interior side lot line.
      3.   Minimum Rear Yards: Not less than forty feet (40') from a rear lot
line. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3E-7: LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article E of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3E-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3E-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article C of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3E-10: USE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Transition Belts: A transition belt not less than thirty feet (30') in
width shall be provided along any interior rear or interior side lot line when
such lot line is adjacent to a lot zoned for any use other than commercial,
manufacturing or industrial.
   B.   Transition Screens: A transition screen shall be established in each
required transition belt. Such transition screen shall meet the landscape
specifications contained in section
8-4A-9 of this title.
   C.   Storage Of Materials: All storage of materials, products or equipment,
except those related to or used for agricultural research, testing and/or
analysis purposes shall be within a fully enclosed building.
   D.   Fencing: A solid or semisolid fence at least six feet (6'), but not
more than eight feet (8') high and having a density of not less than seventy
percent (70%) per square foot shall be provided adjacent to an adjoining
residential district unless the adjacent residential district and the
industrial district are separated by a street right of way. Said fence shall be
maintained in good condition by the owner(s) of the property in the M district.
   E.   Residential Structure: No structure shall be used for residential
purposes.
   F.   Business Operations: All operations shall be conducted within a fully
enclosed building.
   G.   Industrial Wastes: Industrial wastes shall be of such a quantity and
nature as to not overburden the private sewage disposal facilities so as to
cause odor and unsanitary effects beyond the property line.
   H.   Private Street Network: A private street network shall be allowed where
comprehensive control of a large industrial site is required for safety or
security reasons and where no unsecured access to the site is afforded the
public. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE F. I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3F-1: Intent
8-3F-2: Permitted Uses
8-3F-3: Special Uses
8-3F-4: Intensity Of Use Regulations
8-3F-5: Height Regulations
8-3F-6: Setback Requirements
8-3F-7: Lighting Regulations
8-3F-8: Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations
8-3F-9: Sign Regulations
8-3F-10: Use Limitations
8-3F-1: INTENT:
The I industrial district is intended for the purpose of allowing basic or
primary industries which are generally not compatible with residential and/or
commercial activity. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Generally, manufacturing, wholesaling, trucking and warehousing uses, with
limited retail and service uses are permitted. For a general listing of
permitted and conditionally permitted uses see chapter 5 of this title. The
permitted uses will be determined based on compatibility with other uses
permitted in the district and with uses listed in chapter 5 of this title.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3F-3: SPECIAL USES:
For a specific listing of special uses, see chapter 5 of this title. Special
uses are allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued in accordance
with chapter 2, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3F-4: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be not less than three (3)
acres and in accordance with the following:
      1.   Bulk requirements of the district;
      2.   Off street parking requirements of the district;
      3.   Driveway standards as specified in chapter 4 of this title;
      4.   Sanitary sewer requirements of the Jo Daviess County health
department; and
      5.   Any provisions specifically required for a special use.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: One hundred fifty feet (150') at the street right of
way.
   C.   Floor Area Ratio (FAR): Not to exceed eight-tenths (0.8). (Ord. 2009-3,
5-12-2009)
8-3F-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Not more than thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3F-6: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Every structure hereafter erected or enlarged in this district shall
provide and maintain a setback in accordance with the following:
      1.   Setback From Public Streets:
         a.   Major highways (federal or state): Seventy five feet (75') from
the property line, or one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         b.   Primary or secondary thoroughfares (county highways): Sixty feet
(60') from the property line, or one hundred ten feet (110') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         c.   All other streets: Fifty feet (50') from the property line, or
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the right of way, whichever is
greater.
      2.   Minimum Interior Side Yards: Not less than twenty feet (20') from an
interior side lot line.
      3.   Minimum Rear Yards: Not less than forty feet (40') from a rear lot
line. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3F-7: LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article E of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3F-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3F-9: SIGN REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article C of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3F-10: USE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Transition Belts: A transition belt not less than thirty feet (30') in
width shall be provided along any interior rear or interior side lot line when
such lot line is adjacent to a lot zoned for any use other than commercial,
manufacturing or industrial.
   B.   Transition Screens: A transition screen shall be established in each
required transition belt. Such transition screen shall meet the landscape
specifications contained in section
8-4A-9 of this title.
   C.   Storage Of Materials: All storage of materials, products or equipment,
except those related to or used for agricultural research, testing and/or
analysis purposes shall be within a fully enclosed building.
   D.   Fencing: A solid or semisolid fence at least six feet (6'), but not
more than eight feet (8'), high and having a density of not less than seventy
percent (70%) per square foot shall be provided adjacent to an adjoining
residential district unless the adjacent residential district and the
industrial district are separated by a street right of way. Said fence shall be
maintained in good condition by the owner(s) of the property in the I district.
   E.   Residential Structure: No structure shall be used for residential
purposes.
   F.   Business Operations: All operations shall be conducted within a fully
enclosed building.
   G.   Industrial Wastes: Industrial wastes shall be of such a quantity and
nature as to not overburden the private sewage disposal facilities so as to
cause odor and unsanitary effects beyond the property line.
   H.   Private Street Network: A private street network shall be allowed where
comprehensive control of a large industrial site is required for safety or
security reasons and where no unsecured access to the site is afforded the
public.
   I.   Facilities Used For Agricultural Research, Testing And/Or Analysis: In
agriculture related research facilities, the following use limitations shall
apply:
      1.   Operations required to be conducted outside a fully enclosed
building shall be conducted in controlled outdoor areas.
      2.   A private street network shall be allowed where comprehensive
control of a large industrial site is required for safety or security reasons
and where no unsecured access to the site is afforded the public.
      3.   Private roadways for certain agricultural related research and
development activities may be improved with an all weather surface other than
asphaltic concrete such as gravel or stone. They shall be designed to permit
surface drainage without erosion of adjacent land. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE G. PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3G-1: Purpose And Intent
8-3G-2: Relationship Of Planned Development Districts To Zoning Map
8-3G-3: Procedures For Planned Development Approval
8-3G-4: Permitted Uses
8-3G-5: Area Regulations And Performance Standards
8-3G-6: Conditions Of Approval
8-3G-7: Period Of Validity
8-3G-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the planned development district is to provide a means of
achieving greater flexibility in development of land in a manner not possible
in conventional zones; to encourage a more imaginative and innovative design of
projects; to promote a more desirable community environment; and to retain
maximum control over both the structure and future operation of the
development.
The county board, upon recommendation by the zoning board of appeals, may, by
ordinance adopted in the same manner as zoning districts are created, authorize
a planned development district when the proposed development or use of a
specific tract of land or area warrants greater flexibility, control, and
density than is afforded under the general regulations of standard zoning
districts. However, it should be noted that these planned development
regulations are not intended to allow excessive densities, or the development
of incompatible land uses, either within the development, or as the development
relates to the general neighborhood. The standards contained in the following
provisions must be strictly adhered to by the applicant. The county board may,
upon proper application, approve a planned development to facilitate the use of
flexible techniques of land development and site design in order to obtain one
or more of the following objectives:
   A.   Environmental design in the development of land that is of a higher
quality than is possible under the regulations otherwise applicable to the
property.
   B.   Diversification in the uses permitted and variation in the relationship
of uses, structures, open space and height of structures in developments
intended as cohesive, unified projects.
   C.   Functional and beneficial uses of open space areas.
   D.   Preservation of natural features of a development site.
   E.   Creation of a safe and desirable living environment for residential
areas characterized by a unified building and site development program.
   F.   Rational and economic development in relation to public services.
   G.   Efficient and effective traffic circulation, both within and adjacent
to the development site. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3G-2: RELATIONSHIP OF PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS TO ZONING MAP:
   A.   A Mapped District: The PD designation is not intended to be attached to
existing use districts as an overlay. The PD designation as detailed in this
article is a separate use district and may be attached to a parcel of land
through the process of rezoning and zoning map amendment.
   B.   Plan Approval Required: It is the intent of this title that no
development or redevelopment of the property encompassed by the PD designation
take place until an acceptable development plan has been reviewed and approved
in conformance with the requirements of this article.
   C.   Types Of Planned Developments: All areas of the county subject to the
PD designation shall be assigned one of the following district classifications
which shall be considered a separate use district and subject to the specific
restrictions and limitations outlined in this article:
      1.   Planned Development - Residential (PD-R): Planned developments
involving residential uses only.
      2.   Planned Development - Commercial (PD-C): Planned developments
involving commercial uses only.
      3.   Planned Development - Industrial/Manufacturing (PD-I/M): Planned
developments involving industrial uses only.
      4.   Mixed Use Developments (MXD): Planned developments involving a
mixture of uses. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3G-3: PROCEDURES FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL:
   A.   Preapplication Procedure: Prior to filing any application for planned
development approval, the prospective applicant shall request a preapplication
conference with the zoning administrator, plat officer, county highway
engineer, and environmental health director. Such request shall include a brief
and general narrative description of the nature, location and extent of the
proposed planned development; concept plan showing general lot configuration,
land use, road/street configuration, total acreage and acreage by land use; and
a list of any professional consultants advising the prospective applicant with
respect to the proposed planned development. Upon receipt of such request, the
zoning administrator shall schedule such a conference.
   B.   Natural Resources Report: An application must also be made to the Jo
Daviess County soil and water conservation district for a natural resources
report for any land to be rezoned from an agricultural use to a nonagricultural
use. This application shall be filed with the soil and water conservation
district prior to making application to the zoning department. All data
generated by the natural resources report will become part of the public
record.
   C.   Professional Specialists: Professional talents of qualified land
planners, registered landscape architects, Illinois registered professional
engineers, Illinois professional land surveyors, and other specialists deemed
necessary shall be utilized in different stages of the preparation necessary to
effect a planned unit development to assure developments of the quality desired
by the county, to be supplied by the applicant.
   D.   Development Plan: A development plan shall be submitted with any
application for map amendment seeking creation of a planned development
district. The development plan shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information, in addition to any other information requested by the zoning
administrator:
      1.   Site And Landscape Plan: One or a series of maps shall be submitted
indicating:
         a.   An out boundary survey plat and legal description of the
property;
         b.   Air photo showing site and surrounding area and demarcation of
all taxing bodies;
         c.   The location, size and height of all existing and proposed
structures on the site;
         d.   The location and general design (dimensions and materials) of all
driveways, curb cuts and sidewalks including connections to building entrances;
         e.   The location, area and number of proposed parking spaces;
         f.   Nature of use, including special uses permitted;
         g.   Ingress and egress areas;
         h.   Existing and proposed grades at an interval of two feet (2') or
less, extended beyond the project site to include adjacent properties and
structures;
         i.   The location and general type of all existing trees over six inch
(6") caliper and, in addition, an indication of those to be retained;
         j.   The proposed general use and development of internal spaces,
including all recreational and open space areas, plazas and major landscaped
areas by function, and the general location and description of all proposed
outdoor furniture (seating, lighting, telephones, etc.);
         k.   Soils information. The zoning administrator may require a
detailed soils map (200 foot grid minimum) prepared by a certified soils
classifier, showing each soil type boundary location of each soil investigation
pit, depth to seasonal high ground water, and limiting conditions of each soil
type;
         l.   Drain tile information;
         m.   The landscape plan with the location and approximate size of all
proposed plant material by type, such as hardwood, deciduous, evergreen,
flowering trees and shrub masses, and types of ground cover (grass, ivies,
etc.). Including any buffer area and plantings in parking areas should be
included;
         n.   The location and details of all retaining walls, fences
(including privacy fences, etc.), and earth berms;
         o.   The description and location of all refuse collection facilities
including screening to be provided;
         p.   Provisions for both on and off site stormwater drainage and
detention related to the proposed development;
         q.   The location and approximate size of all utilities (including
water and sanitary facilities);
         r.   All easements and dedications;
         s.   Any signs, location and size;
         t.   The architectural characteristics and any proposed architectural
standards of the proposed development; and
         u.   All other information which the zoning board of appeals may
designate.
The scale of the drawing or drawings shall be one hundred feet to the inch (1"
= 100'), or if the area of the planned development is more than two hundred
(200) acres in area, two hundred feet to the inch (1" = 200'). The zoning
administrator shall approve of the use of any other scale that may be more
appropriate, either larger or smaller. All drawings shall likewise indicate a
project name, the names of adjoining streets, the applicant's name, a scale, a
north arrow, and the date drawn.
The applicant may be required to provide, at the applicant's expense,
additional clarification and/or further detail of the site plan, as deemed
necessary by the zoning administrator or zoning board of appeals.
      2.   Site And Building Sections: Schematic or illustrative sections shall
be drawn to scale of fifty feet to the inch (1" = 50') or larger, indicating
both edge conditions and internal grade changes in relation to principal
variations of internal building levels and site line relations to adjacent
structures.
      3.   Typical Elevations: Typical elevations of proposed buildings shall
be provided at a reasonable scale.
      4.   Project Data:
         a.   Site area (square feet and acres);
         b.   Allocation of site area by building coverage, parking, loading
and driveways, and open space areas including total open space, recreation
area, landscaped areas and others;
         c.   Total dwelling units and floor area distributed by general type
(1 bedroom, 2 bedroom, etc.); and total floor area ratio and residential
density distribution;
         d.   Floor area in nonresidential use by category and total floor area
ratio;
         e.   Calculations of parking spaces and area in relation to dwelling
units and commercial floor area.
      5.   Project Report: A brief project report shall be provided to include
an explanation of the character of the proposed development, verification of
the applicant's ownership and contractual interest in the subject site, and
anticipated development schedule. At the discretion of the zoning board of
appeals, analyses by qualified technical personnel or consultants may be
required as to the market and financial feasibility, traffic impact,
environmental impact, stormwater and erosion control, etc., of the proposed
development.
      6.   Phased Development: If the planned development is proposed to be
constructed in stages or units during a period extending beyond a single
construction season, a development schedule shall be submitted indicating:
         a.   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin;
         b.   The order in which the phases of the project will be built;
         c.   The minimum area and the approximate location of the common open
space and public improvements that will be required at each stage;
         d.   If a planned development is developed in stages, or the public
interest requires, the ordinance granting the planned development may require
bond and/or other reasonable guarantees that all of the necessary improvements
will be completed; and
         e.   Placement of all temporary structures utilized during
construction, i.e., construction offices, siltation control devices, etc.
   E.   Review Procedure: The application, together with the proposed
development plan, shall be considered at the first regularly scheduled public
hearing held pursuant to chapter 2, article E of this title. No public hearing
shall be held to consider any application which does not include all required
elements of the development plan as set forth in subsection D of this section.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3G-4: PERMITTED USES:
The listing of permitted uses within each PD district shall be as follows:
   A.   Planned Development - Residential: The following land uses and
developments are permitted in this district:
      1.   Permitted land uses and developments shall be established in the
conditions of the ordinance governing the particular planned development
residential district; specific uses may include those uses designated as
permitted, accessory, or special uses in any of the R residential districts.
      2.   The following uses may be designated as permitted uses and
established as such in the ordinance governing the particular planned
development residential district:
         Attached single-family dwellings.
         Duplexes.
         Multiple-family dwellings.
         Package sanitary treatment plants.
         Recreational facilities and/or open space.
   B.   Planned Development - Commercial: The following land uses and
developments are permitted in this district:
      1.   Permitted land uses and developments shall be established in the
conditions of the ordinance governing the particular planned development
commercial district; specific uses may only include those uses designated as
permitted, accessory, or special uses in the C commercial district, or other
uses of a commercial nature.
   C.   Planned Development - Industrial/Manufacturing: The following land uses
and developments are permitted in this district:
      1.   Permitted land uses and developments shall be established in the
conditions of the ordinance governing the particular M general manufacturing
districts and those uses in the I industrial district which are specifically
related to a particular activity or complex.
   D.   Mixed Use Developments: Permitted land uses and developments:
      1.   Permitted land uses and developments shall be established in the
conditions of the ordinance governing the particular development mixed use
district (MXD); specific uses may include uses designated as permitted,
accessory or special uses in any of the R-1 and R-2 residential, C commercial,
M general manufacturing or I industrial districts.
   E.   Amendment: Each planned development must contain an express statement
of the proposed permitted use or uses of each portion and structure in the
development plan. Any change in an approved planned development which seeks a
modification or change in the permitted use or uses must be done by submission
and approval of an amended development plan. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3G-5: AREA REGULATIONS AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   The approval of the development plan may provide for such variations
from regulations and such additional requirements as may be necessary or
desirable to achieve the objectives of the proposed planned development,
provided such variations are consistent with the standards and criteria
contained in this article; and further, that no modification of the above
referenced regulations shall be allowed when such proposed modification would
result in:
Inadequate or unsafe access to the planned development:
      1.   Traffic volumes exceeding the anticipated capacity of the proposed
major street network in the vicinity;
      2.   An undue burden on public parks, recreation areas, schools, fire and
police protection and other public facilities which serve or are proposed to
serve the planned development;
      3.   A development which will be incompatible with the purposes of this
title;
      4.   Detrimental impact on surrounding area including, but not limited
to, visual pollution.
The burden of proof that the criteria above are not being violated shall rest
with the developer and not the zoning administrator or the zoning board of
appeals.
   B.   The ordinance approving the development plan for the planned
development shall establish regulations governing uses, densities, minimum lot
area, bulk regulations, parking and signs, setbacks other than those regulated
in chapter 4 of this title and exceptions to the subdivision design standards
as may be necessary or desirable to achieve the objectives of the proposed
planned development, provided such are consistent with the standards and
criteria contained in this article. No minimum lot size is required within a
planned development, and appropriate lot size shall be evaluated based upon the
relationship to adjacent development, amount of common open space, proposed
provision of sewage disposal, and other appropriate factors. Uses in planned
developments may include residential (single-family detached, attached, and
multi-family dwellings), business, manufacturing, public/institutional,
recreational, conservation, open space or any combination of these uses,
provided, however, that planned development - residential projects must consist
of at least fifty five percent (55%) of the developed land area devoted to
residential uses; planned development - commercial projects must consist of at
least fifty five percent (55%) of the developed land area devoted to commercial
uses; and planned development - industrial projects must consist of at least
fifty five percent (55%) of the developed land area devoted to manufacturing
uses. Mixed use development projects may consist of any mixture of uses. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3G-6: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
Upon the passage of said ordinance granting planned development district
classification, final platting, subdividing or further rezoning shall not be
necessary within the planned unit to complete the development of the unit in
accordance with the approved development plan.
Prior to any conveyance of any part of the planned unit less than the whole,
the owner shall subdivide the area in compliance with the provisions of the
Illinois plat act, and shall further comply with the provisions of the
subdivision regulations of Jo Daviess County.
In the event that any conveyance or transfer is made by whatever nature or
manner which involves less than the entire planned unit in violation of the
provisions herein contained, no further building permits shall be issued and
all use and occupancy permits issued during the period the property was
classified a planned development district shall terminate until such time as
the violation shall be corrected. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3G-7: PERIOD OF VALIDITY:
The period of validity of approval of a development plan is as follows:
   A.   Construction Permit, Commencement: No approval of a development plan
shall be valid for a period longer than twelve (12) months from the date of
approval unless within such period a construction permit is obtained and
construction is commenced.
   B.   Extensions; Exceptions: The county board may grant extensions, not
exceeding one year each, upon written request of the original applicant if the
application submitted is substantially the same as the initially approved
application. However, the county board has the power in such cases to attach
new conditions to approval. At such time as the period of validity of an
approved development plan lapses, the development plan and all uses, terms, and
conditions thereof shall be considered null and void. No further development of
the site shall be permitted except by application in accordance with the
procedural requirements of this article, whereby it shall be considered an
entirely new application.
   C.   Amendments To Approved Development Plan:
      1.   Permitted Minor Amendments: Minor changes in the location, siting
and height of buildings and structures, or minor lot line and roadway
adjustments, depicted on the approved development plan may be authorized by the
zoning administrator without additional public hearing if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was
approved. No change authorized by this subsection may cause any of the
following:
         a.   A change in the use or character of the development;
         b.   An increase by more than five percent (5%) in the lot coverage of
structures;
         c.   An increase in the density or intensity of use;
         d.   A reduction of more than one percent (1%) in approved open space
area;
         e.   A reduction in the number of off street parking and loading
spaces.
      2.   Major Amendments: Changes to the development plan that exceed the
limitations in subsection C1 of this section shall result in the entire planned
development, or phase of the development in which the changes are proposed, to
be resubmitted as a new planned development. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE H. RP PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3H-1: Intent
8-3H-2: General Requirements
8-3H-3: Permitted Uses
8-3H-4: Special Uses
8-3H-5: Commercial Uses
8-3H-6: Intensity Of Use Regulations
8-3H-7: Setback Requirements
8-3H-8: Bulk Regulation
8-3H-9: Recreation; Open Space
8-3H-10: Required Landscaping
8-3H-11: Sign Regulations
8-3H-12: Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations
8-3H-13: Lighting Regulations
8-3H-1: INTENT:
   A.   The purpose of the RP (residential planned) district is to provide
standards for planned, platted residential subdivision (primarily those with
public sewer and water) that:
      1.   Encourage a variety of housing types.
      2.   Provide the means whereby land may be planned and developed as a
unit for residential uses under standards and conditions which encourage good
design and promote a stable, desirable living environment.
      3.   Permit flexibility and variety in development.
      4.   Encourage the preservation of natural features and open space.
      5.   Minimize the present and future burdens upon the community as a
whole which result from poor planning.
      6.   Are compatible in design with the character of the surrounding area.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Development within the RP district shall:
      1.   Be consistent with the purpose and intent of this title and the 1989
land use plan, as amended.
      2.   Be laid out and developed as a unit in accordance with an integrated
overall design, as approved and authorized by the county board.
      3.   Provide existing and proposed utility services adequate for the
population densities proposed.
      4.   Provide yards and open spaces adjoining the boundaries of the
project that are equal to, or greater, than those specified under sections
8-3H-7,
8-3H-8 and
8-3H-9 of this article.
      5.   Be allowed to exceed the height limitation of this district,
provided no building shall exceed the allowable height by more than ten percent
(10%).
   B.   The number of dwelling units erected shall not exceed the number
permitted by the regulations of this district, unless an exception is permitted
by the county board based upon evidence that:
      1.   Such exception shall be solely for the purpose of encouraging a
desirable living environment no less beneficial to the residents or occupants
of such development, as well as neighboring properties, than would be obtained
under the bulk regulations of this title.
      2.   Maximum parcel coverage by buildings and pavement in a residential
planned development would not exceed thirty percent (30%) in the residential
portion of the planned development. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-3: PERMITTED USES:
For a general listing of permitted uses see chapter 5 of this title. The
permitted uses will be determined based on compatibility with other uses
permitted in the RP planned development district and with uses listed in
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-4: SPECIAL USES:
For a specific listing of special uses, see chapter 5 of this title. Special
uses are allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued in accordance
with chapter 2, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-5: COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   Neighborhood commercial centers, designed principally for the
convenience of the residents of the neighborhood in which they are located,
shall be permitted as a special use on lots not less than three (3) acres in
area, and shall be allowed on premises signs as regulated by chapter 4, article
C of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-6: INTENSITY OF USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Single-Family Housing:
 
Description               Minimum Lot Area (Square Feet)
                          
   Single-family detach12,000
   Single-family cluste9,000
 
   B.   Multiple-Family Housing:
 
Description            Minimum Lot Area (Square Feet Per Unit)
                       
   Two-family       4,500
   Multiplex        3,500
   Townhomes        4,500
   Low rise apartmen2,700
 
   C.   Commercial: Three (3) acres.
   D.   Other Uses: Lot sizes for uses other than those residential and
commercial noted above shall be as approved by the county board, after
recommendation by the planning commission. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential: The following setback and separation requirements shall
apply to residential structures in this district:
      1.   Public Streets:
         a.   Major highways (federal or state): Seventy five feet (75') from
the property line, or one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the centerline
of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         b.   Primary or secondary thoroughfares (county highways): Sixty feet
(60') from the property line, or one hundred ten feet (110') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
         c.   All other streets: Fifty feet (50') from the property line, or
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the right of way, whichever is
greater.
      2.   Single- And Two-Family Dwellings:
         a.   Front Yard And Corner Side Yards: Dwellings shall be set back at
least thirty feet (30') from the rights of way of interior residential streets
constructed as a part of a planned development.
         b.   Interior Side Yard: Not less than ten feet (10') from an interior
side lot line.
         c.   Rear Yard: Not less than thirty feet (30') from a rear lot line.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
         d.   Lesser Setbacks: If, in existing subdivisions established prior
to the implementation of this title, lesser setback lines have been observed by
fifty percent (50%) of the structures in a block; then new structures in that
block may be built to said lesser setback lines. In no case, however, shall the
front yard be less than fifteen feet (15') or any interior or rear yard be less
than five feet (5'). Furthermore, no lesser setback shall be allowed which
interferes with safe traffic flow and unobstructed corner views in the
subdivision. (Ord. 2012-3, 2-14-2012)
      3.   Cluster Single-Family:
         a.   Front And Corner Side Yards: Dwellings shall be set back at least
thirty feet (30') from the rights of way of interior residential streets
constructed as part of a planned development.
         b.   Interior Side Yard: Not less than ten feet (10') from an interior
side lot line.
         c.   Rear Yard: Not less than thirty feet (30') from a rear lot line.
      4.   Low Rise Apartments:
         a.   Distance From Parking And Access Drives: Not less than twenty
five feet (25').
         b.   Distance Between Buildings:
 
Front to front   100 feet
Front to side    40 feet
Side to side     40 feet
Rear to rear     60 feet
Rear to side     50 feet
Corner to corner 40 feet
 
         c.   Distance From Lot Line: Structures shall maintain a minimum
distance of forty feet (40') from any lot line, unless otherwise regulated by
subsection A1 of this section which governs building setbacks along public
streets.
      5.   Commercial: Unless otherwise granted under the terms of the special
use permit, the following setbacks and separation requirements shall apply to
commercial buildings in this district:
         a.   Public Streets: See subsection A1 of this section.
         b.   Parking, Loading And Access Drives: All access drives and off
street parking and loading areas shall maintain a thirty foot (30') setback
from the right of way of any public or private street.
         c.   Distance From Residential/Institutional Uses: Structures shall
maintain a minimum distance of one hundred feet (100') from any residential or
institutional structure.
         d.   Distance From Lot Line: Structures shall maintain a minimum
distance of forty feet (40') from any lot line, unless otherwise regulated by
subsection A1 of this section which governs building setbacks along public
streets.
      6.   Accessory Uses:
         a.   Public Streets: See subsection A1 of this section.
         b.   All Other Lot Lines: Structures accessory to a principal building
or use shall maintain a setback not less than ten feet (10') from interior rear
or side lot lines.
      7.   Exterior Setback From A Livestock Facility: In addition to those
regulations set forth in subsection A of this section, the minimum setback from
any occupied livestock facility (occupied with livestock at least 6 months out
of the last 2 years) shall be as follows. Animal units shall be as set forth in
the livestock management act 1 .
         a.   A minimum of one-fourth (1/4) mile from an occupied livestock
facility with fifty (50) to one thousand (1,000) animal units.
         b.   For an occupied livestock facility with one thousand one (1,001)
to seven thousand (7,000) animal units, the minimum setback shall be one-half
(1/2) mile plus four hundred forty feet (440') for each additional one thousand
(1,000) animal units in excess of one thousand (1,000).
         c.   A minimum of one mile from an occupied livestock facility with
more than seven thousand (7,000) animal units.
      8.   Other: Building setbacks and separation requirements for all other
uses shall be subject to review and approval by the planning commission and the
county board and specified in the special use permit. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 510 ILCS 77/1 et seq.
8-3H-8: BULK REGULATION:
   A.   Lot Coverage:
      1.   Residential:
         a.   Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of a zoning lot on
which detached single-family or two-family attached dwellings are located may
be occupied by buildings, including accessory structures.
         b.   Not more than thirty percent (30%) of the area of a zoning lot on
which multiple-family dwellings (multiplex units, townhomes or low rise
apartments) may be occupied by buildings, including accessory structures.
      2.   Commercial: Not more than seventy percent (70%) of the area of a
zoning lot on which neighborhood commercial is developed may be occupied by
buildings, pavements and accessory structures.
   B.   Structure Height: Unless otherwise granted under the terms of a special
use permit, all structures shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-9: RECREATION; OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Required Land Area: Residential development in the RP district shall
include open space and recreation areas for the enjoyment of all residents of
the planned development in accordance with the following:
      1.   Single-Family Residential:
         a.   With Public Sewer And Water: At least twenty percent (20%) of the
total land area in any single-family residential planned development provided
with public sewer and water shall be reserved as usable, accessible open space
as defined in subsection B of this section.
         b.   Without Public Sewer And Water: No open space shall be required
for residential planned developments consisting of single-family dwellings on
lots of one acre or more in size that are constructed without public sewer and
water.
      2.   Multiple-Family Residential:
         a.   With Public Sewer And Water: At least twenty percent (20%) of the
land area of any residential planned development provided with public sewer and
water which consists of two-family dwellings, multiplexes, townhomes or
apartments shall be reserved as usable, accessible open space as defined in
subsection B of this section.
         b.   Without Public Sewer And Water: No open space shall be required
for residential planned developments constructed without public sewer and water
which consist of two-family dwellings, multiplexes, townhomes or apartments
having not more than twenty (20) dwelling units. However, when a planned
development consisting of two-family dwellings, multiplexes, townhomes or
apartments is constructed with twenty one (21) or more dwelling units, fifteen
percent (15%) of the total land area shall be reserved as usable, accessible
open space as defined in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Definition Of Open Space/Recreation Areas:
      1.   For the purpose of this title, "open space/recreation areas"
developed within the RP district shall be defined as land specifically designed
and intended for the active or passive recreational use of the residents of the
district.
      2.   Open space/recreation areas shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
         a.   Public or private play lots and parks.
         b.   School sites.
         c.   Pedestrian corridors.
         d.   Bicycle and equestrian trails.
         e.   Greenbelt open space networks.
         f.   Stormwater detention or retention facilities, provided such areas
are capable of being utilized for recreational purposes.
   C.   Ownership And Maintenance: All open space/recreational areas developed
as part of a residential planned development shall be owned and maintained by
an association. The county shall not be required to develop, own and maintain
these areas. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-10: REQUIRED LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Residential:
      1.   Street trees shall be installed along all residential streets in
accordance with the county's subdivision regulations.
      2.   In addition to street trees, undulating landscaped berms may be
required by the county board where rear yards abut arterials or county
highways. Where required, berms shall range between three (3) and five feet
(5') in height, and shall be planted with evergreen, deciduous, or flowering
trees and shrubs to attenuate the effects of vehicular sight and sound of
traffic along these roadways.
   B.   Commercial:
      1.   The first thirty feet (30') of a front, side or rear yard which
abuts a street or access drive shall be landscaped with seed or sod within the
first spring following completion of the project.
      2.   A five foot (5') high screen shall be provided along property lines
which abut or are adjacent to residential or institutional properties. Said
screen may consist of a fence, wall, or landscaping, subject to county board
approval as part of the special use permit.
      3.   Foundation plantings shall be provided around the front and side
elevations of the building.
   C.   Ownership And Maintenance: All landscaping developed as part of a
planned development shall be owned and maintained by the owners of each zoning
lot. The county shall not be required to develop, own and maintain any
landscaping, including trees planted along residential streets. (Ord. 2009-3,
5-12-2009)
8-3H-11: SIGN REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article C of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-12: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3H-13: LIGHTING REGULATIONS:
See chapter 4, article E of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE I. CON CONSERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-3I-1: Intent
8-3I-2: Permitted Uses
8-3I-3: Special Uses
8-3I-4: Lot Size Regulations
8-3I-5: Setback Requirements
8-3I-6: Floodplains And Floodways
8-3I-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this district is to prohibit buildings and uses from encroaching
upon natural areas which are environmentally sensitive. Areas within this
district provide for the storage and movement of floodwater, ground water
recharge, water quality improvement, wildlife and aesthetic benefits. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3I-2: PERMITTED USES:
For a general listing of permitted uses see chapter 5 of this title. The
permitted uses will be determined based on compatibility with other uses
permitted in the conservation district and with uses listed in chapter 5 of
this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3I-3: SPECIAL USES:
For a specific listing of special uses, see chapter 5 of this title. Special
uses are allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued in accordance
with chapter 2, article D of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3I-4: LOT SIZE REGULATIONS:
No minimum requirement. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-3I-5: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
As established for the AG general agricultural district. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-3I-6: FLOODPLAINS AND FLOODWAYS 1 :
   A.   Purpose: The restrictions which follow apply specifically to
floodplains and floodways, and are established to:
      1.   Avoid or lessen the hazards to persons, property, or buildings
resulting from floodwaters.
      2.   Protect the stream channels from encroachment.
      3.   Maintain the capacity of the floodplain to convey floodwaters.
      4.   Provide for the development of floodplain lands with uses not
subject to severe damage by flooding, and which are compatible with other uses
permitted in the various zoning districts.
      5.   Avoid the creation of new flood problems.
   B.   Restrictions For Floodplains And Floodways:
      1.   No existing building or structure shall be moved to, and no new
building or structure shall be erected or constructed in the floodway as
determined by FEMA.
      2.   The elevation of the ground upon which anything is constructed shall
be one foot (1') above the established 100-year flood crest for a minimum
distance of ten feet (10') surrounding any such construction.
      3.   The elevation of the finished surface at the crown of any new street
constructed within the 100-year floodplain shall not be less than two feet (2')
above the crest elevation established. The design of such streets shall be such
that the normal direction or course of drainage shall not be interrupted.
   C.   Compensatory Storage: Whenever any portion of a floodplain is
authorized for use, the volume of space which will be occupied by the
authorized fill or structure below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent
volume of excavation taken below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation:
      1.   The excavation volume shall be equal to at least one and one- half
(11/2) times the volume of the storage lost due to the fill or structure. This
safety factor is intended to compensate for uncertainties in the estimate of
the base flood elevation and in the determination of project impacts.
      2.   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall be
made opposite or adjacent to areas so filled or occupied:
         a.   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
         b.   All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
         c.   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse unless designed as a pond or shallow water area. Any
area below the permanent pool elevation cannot be considered as flood storage
area. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 10, chapter 1 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4A-1: Purpose And Intent
8-4A-2: Height Regulations
8-4A-3: Yard And Setback Exceptions
8-4A-4: Number Of Principal Structures On A Lot
8-4A-5: Number Of Uses On A Lot
8-4A-6: Sight Triangle
8-4A-7: Access To Commercial, Manufacturing And Industrial Districts
8-4A-8: Determination Of Structure Setback Line
8-4A-9: Transition Screen Specifications
8-4A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Unless otherwise stated, the regulations hereafter established shall apply
within all districts established by this title. These general regulations
supplement and qualify the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this
title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4A-2: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator head houses, fire towers, grain elevators,
monuments, stacks, stage towers, or scenery lofts, tanks, water towers,
ornamental towers, spires, church steeples, wind energy conversion systems
(WECSs) and necessary mechanical appurtenances, usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy, are not subject to
the height limitations contained in the district regulations. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-
12-2009)
8-4A-3: YARD AND SETBACK EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   Where a lawfully approved and recorded subdivision plat clearly and
graphically indicates a front yard setback that is less than presently
required, the setback clearly indicated on the plat shall determine the minimum
setback required.
      2.   Where lots have a double frontage, a required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
   B.   Side Yard And Rear Yard:
      1.   Where a lawfully approved and recorded subdivision plat clearly and
graphically indicates a side or rear yard area requirement that is less than
presently required, the yard area requirement that is clearly and graphically
indicated on the plat shall determine the minimum yard area required; however,
this provision shall not apply to written subdivision covenants that may
delineate less than presently allowed yard areas. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4A-4: NUMBER OF PRINCIPAL STRUCTURES ON A LOT:
In other than the planned development district, no more than one principal
structure may be located upon a lot. Land required for setbacks, open spaces,
off street parking or loading spaces for any existing building or new building
shall be used for only one building. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4A-5: NUMBER OF USES ON A LOT:
In other than the commercial, manufacturing, industrial and planned development
zoning districts, no more than one principal use may be located upon a lot.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4A-6: SIGHT TRIANGLE:
Nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner
as to materially impede vision between a height of two and one-half feet (21/
2') and eight feet (8') above the grades of the outside edge of the street
surface of two (2) or more intersecting streets, measured from the point of
intersection of the centerline of the streets, ninety feet (90') in each
direction along the centerline of the streets. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4A-7: ACCESS TO COMMERCIAL, MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
No land which is located in a residential district shall be used for a
driveway, walkway or access to any land which is located in any commercial,
manufacturing, or industrial district. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4A-8: DETERMINATION OF STRUCTURE SETBACK LINE:
The structure setback line shall be determined by measuring the horizontal
distance between the property line and the vertical plane of the farthest
architectural projection of the existing or proposed structure; except that
certain architectural projections listed below may extend beyond the structure
setback line, subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Projections: "Projections" shall be defined as any structural or
nonstructural portion or appendage attached to the main structure which, by
design, protrudes outward beyond the structure floor, wall, and roof or
foundation line.
   Projections include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Roof eaves and gutters may encroach no more than four feet (4') into
front and rear yards and not more than two feet (2') into a side yard. Roof
eaves and gutters projecting from a building located in a rear yard may extend
no closer than two feet (2') from a lot line.
      2.   Cornices and sills of the principal building shall project no more
than one and one-half feet (11/2') into a front, side and rear yard.
      3.   Air conditioning equipment may encroach into a side and rear yard
provided such equipment is at least ten feet (10') from any property line.
      4.   Stairs which are necessary for access to a dwelling or an accessory
building may encroach into a front, side and rear yard with up to eight (8)
steps.
      5.   Bay windows shall project no more than three feet (3') into a front
or rear yard.
      6.   Chimneys that are attached to the principal building shall encroach
no more than two feet (2') into a front, side or rear yard.
      7.   Ornamentation attached to a principal building shall project no more
than one and one-half feet (11/2') into a front, side or rear yard.
   B.   Exception For Canopies And Awnings: A canopy or awning may be permitted
to overhang a public way in a C commercial district, M manufacturing district
or I industrial district providing:
      1.   The canopy or awning construction is covered with a fabric material,
such as canvas, or is made of a material which simulates a fabric covering,
other than metal or aluminum.
      2.   No portion of the canopy or awning shall be less than eight feet
(8') above the level of the sidewalk or other public way.
      3.   The canopy or awning may extend the full width of the building
facade to which it is attached, and further, it shall not extend beyond a point
two feet (2') inside the pavement line of a public street. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-4A-9: TRANSITION SCREEN SPECIFICATIONS:
When a transition screen is required by this title, such screen shall conform
to the following specifications:
   A.   Such transition screen shall be located in a transition belt, and shall
extend the full length of such transition belt except for any portion of such
belt lying within a required front yard or side yard adjoining a street.
   B.   Such transition screen shall consist of a planting screen meeting the
specifications herein.
      1.   Planting Screens: Planting screens shall consist of trees, bushes or
shrubs of a variety and so planted and kept as to be achieved within thirty six
(36) months after occupancy of the premises to be screened.
         a.   Such screen shall have a minimum height of six feet (6') above
grade at any particular point along its length.
         b.   Any two foot (2') square segment of a planting screen shall
contain no more than thirty percent (30%) open space affording a direct
horizontal view through such screen if such segment is over two feet (2') above
grade.
      2.   Landscaped Berm: Adequate evidence from a registered engineer shall
be furnished demonstrating that the construction of such berm, along with any
necessary culverts and ditching, will not create adverse drainage and flooding
conditions on adjacent property.
         a.   Such berm shall be at least thirty feet (30') in width at the
base and at least four feet (4') in height, as measured perpendicular to grade
level at any point along its length. Side slopes shall have a gradient no
steeper than three to one (3:1).
         b.   Side slopes of such berm shall be grass so as to prevent erosion.
The top of the berm shall contain a planting screen according to the
specifications set forth in this article, except that the minimum height of
such planting screen need not be more than three feet (3') above the top of the
berm at any particular point along its length.
      3.   Fence Screen: A fence screen shall not be less than eight feet (8'),
nor more than ten feet (10') in height above grade level, at any particular
point along its length, and any two foot (2') square segment of such screen
shall contain no more than thirty percent (30%) open space affording a direct
horizontal view through such screen. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE B. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-4B-1: Applicability Of Other Laws And Regulations
8-4B-1: APPLICABILITY OF OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS:
The uses set forth in this title shall be subject to all applicable federal and
state laws and regulations. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE C. SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4C-1: Purpose
8-4C-2: Scope
8-4C-3: Administration And Enforcement
8-4C-4: Prohibited Signs
8-4C-5: Nonconforming Signs
8-4C-6: Agricultural District Signage
8-4C-7: Residential And PD Planned Development Districts Signage
8-4C-8: Commercial, Manufacturing, And Industrial Districts Signage
8-4C-9: Conservation District Signage
8-4C-10: Other Signage
8-4C-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this article to regulate and control the location,
erection, number and maintenance of signs and matters relating thereto within
Jo Daviess County in order to promote public safety, health and general welfare
of the community. These regulations are specifically designed to:
   A.   Provide for uniform regulation and orderly development of signs
consistent with established ordinances of the county.
   B.   Prohibit hazardous and dangerous signs.
   C.   Provide a desirable and attractive living environment through
harmonious and uniform signage. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this article shall govern the erection, alteration, and
maintenance of all signs and outdoor display structures, together with their
appurtenant and auxiliary devices, with respect to location, size, content,
construction, structure, and fire safety.
   A.   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
      1.   Flags of any nation, state, county, city or other governmental unit
and any not for profit organization.
      2.   Signs or other materials temporarily displayed in conjunction with
traditionally accepted patriotic, religious or local holidays or events or
official government public notices.
      3.   The erection, construction, and maintenance of official traffic,
fire and police signs, signals and devices and markings, nonilluminated
directional or informational signs of a public nature of the state, county, or
city.
      4.   Residential garage or patio sale signs not to exceed six (6) square
feet and located upon premises where the sale is taking place. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-
12-2009)
      5.   Bulletin boards not over thirty two (32) square feet in area, for
public, charitable, or religious institutions which are located on the premises
of said institutions. (Ord. 2015-7, 11-10-2015)
      6.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible materials.
      7.   Identification/occupational signs not exceeding one square foot in
size.
      8.   Signs erected inside a building not visible through windows and
signs not visible from adjoining properties or from public rights of way.
      9.   Crop identification sign, not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet
in gross surface area and shall be unlimited in number as to crop type or plot
of land. The duration of these signs shall be limited to the growing season.
      10.   Signs for the purpose of restricting the use of property are
permitted along the boundary line of a publicly or privately owned tract of
land. Each such sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area. In addition,
at the entrance of such tract of land, one sign shall be permitted not to
exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area.
      11.   Signs for the purpose of identifying the entrance, exit, traffic
direction, and parking facilities of public or private property on premises,
signs are permitted not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area and eight feet
(8') in height.
      12.   For the purpose of identifying the architect, engineer, or
contractor of work under construction, one temporary sign is permitted, not
exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in area.
      13.   Window signs covering not more than fifty percent (50%) of the
window surface. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Application/Zoning Approval: Except where herein otherwise stated, no
sign subject to the regulations of this code shall be erected without first
obtaining a zoning certificate. To obtain a zoning certificate for a sign, the
person(s) erecting the sign shall complete an application form provided by the
zoning administrator. Applications for sign permits shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the applicant, the
owner of the property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed, the owner
of the sign and the person to be erecting or affixing the sign.
      2.   The location of the building, structure or lot on which the sign is
to be erected or affixed.
      3.   A site plan of the property involved, showing accurate placement
thereon, of the proposed sign.
      4.   The written consent of the owner of the building, structure or
property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed.
      5.   Such other information as the zoning administrator may require to
determine full compliance with this and other applicable ordinances of the
county.
   B.   Fees: Any sign over one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area is
subject to any applicable fees as established by the Jo Daviess County board.
Annual fees are calculated on a per structure basis.
   C.   Removal Of Signs:
      1.   The zoning administrator may cause the removal of any sign that is
an immediate peril to persons or property summarily and without notice.
      2.   If any sign is erected without a permit, the zoning administrator
shall order it removed.
      3.   If any sign is erected or maintained so as to obstruct free ingress
or egress from any door, window or fire escape, the zoning administrator shall
order it removed.
   D.   Maintenance And Appearance Of Signs: All advertising signs, together
with all of their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in good
repair and maintained in a safe condition. All advertising signs and the sites
upon which they are located shall be maintained in a neat, clear and attractive
condition, and advertising signs shall be kept free from excessive rust,
corrosion, peeling paint or other surface deterioration. The display surface of
all standard outdoor advertising structures shall be kept neatly painted or
posted. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   A.   Animated signs, electronic standard outdoor advertising structure/
billboards.
   B.   Any sign erected in a public easement or right of way.
   C.   Any sign erected so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from any
door or window, or any other way required by the building or fire codes of the
county.
   D.   Any sign attached to any public utility pole, tree, fire hydrant, curb,
sidewalk or other surface located on public property.
   E.   Any sign erected in any location where, by reason of its location, it
will obstruct the view of any authorized traffic sign, signal, or other traffic
control device. Nor may any sign, by reason of its shape, position or color
interfere with or be confused with any authorized traffic signal, sign or
device. Further, no sign shall be erected in the sight distance triangle or any
other location where it will obstruct vision of the public right of way to a
vehicle operator during ingress to, egress from, or while traveling on the
public right of way.
   F.   Any sign or advertising device such as banners and pennants affixed on
poles, wires, ropes or streamers, wind operated devices, fluttering signs,
pinwheels, streamers, banners, street banners, and "A" frames or other portable
signs of like nature, and other similar contraptions or techniques.
   G.   Signs placed or affixed to vehicles and/or trailers which are parked on
a public right of way, public property, or private property so as to be visible
from a public right of way where the apparent purpose is to advertise a product
or direct people to a business activity located on the same or nearby property.
However, this is not in any way intended to prohibit signs placed on or affixed
to vehicles and trailers, such as permanent lettering on motor vehicles, where
the sign is incidental to the primary use of the vehicle or trailer.
   H.   Off premises signs and standard outdoor advertising structure and/or
billboards except as provided in this title.
   I.   Signs which contain flashing lights; however, not including digital
time and temperature signs involving only that information and no further or
additional information of an advertising nature. Such time and temperature
signs shall be constant or steady in nature, and shall not grow, melt, X-ray,
up or down scroll, write-on, travel, inverse, roll, twinkle, snow or present
pictorials or other animation.
   J.   Portable signs.
   K.   Project identification or real estate signs promoting the sale of lots
prior to the approval of a final plat.
   L.   Signs which contain characters, cartoons, statements, works or pictures
that constitute public indecency as prohibited under 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-9, or that are obscene as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-20(b).
   M.   Signs containing strobe lights which are visible from beyond the
property line; and signs artificially illuminated which are of such intensity
or placed in such manner as to interfere with, or impair the vision of the
driver of a motor vehicle, or otherwise interfere with any driver's operation
of a motor vehicle.
   N.   Window signs covering more than fifty percent (50%) of the window
surface.
   O.   Signs that impact the availability of direct sunlight to an existing
solar energy system.
   P.   Any freestanding sign which, by its location and/or structural design,
would interfere with the safe and efficient use of off street parking and
loading areas, including aisleways and access driveways.
   Q.   No sign shall be painted or mounted on rocks or other natural features,
except that nameplates and/or addresses for residences, of up to a maximum of
six (6) square feet. "No Hunting", "No Trespassing", "No Dumping", and signs of
a similar nature may be affixed to trees. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-5: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Any sign unless otherwise excepted by this article, legally existing
prior to enactment of this article but which shall violate any provision of
this article, may continue to be maintained and used subject to the following
provisions: (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
      1.   Enlargement: Nonconforming signs may be enlarged, expanded, or
extended to occupy a greater square footage than was occupied on the date of
adoption or amendment of this article, but shall be no more than thirty two
(32) square feet in size, to be measured by the sign face. Both sides of a
nonconforming sign may be utilized. Triangle settings may be utilized in the
support of a sign limited to advertising on two (2) sides only. (Ord. 2012-6,
3-13-2012)
      2.   Relocation: Nonconforming signs shall not be moved in whole or in
part to any other portion of the lot, parcel or building not so occupied on the
date of adoption of this article, except that any such sign which is hereafter
required to be moved by a governmental body for the purpose of construction,
relocation, widening, or improvement of a street, highway, or other public
purpose, may be relocated once and allowed to be maintained and used as before.
      3.   Discontinuance: If the business or service advertised or identified
by a nonconforming sign ceases to be conducted for a period exceeding one
hundred eighty (180) calendar days, the nonconforming sign shall be classified
as an "abandoned sign" and removed. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
      4.   Destruction: Should any nonconforming sign be destroyed it may be
allowed to be reconstructed to its original size at the time of adoption or
amendment of this article. If an original nonconforming sign was smaller than
thirty two (32) square feet in size it shall be allowed to be constructed in
accordance with subsection A1 of this section. (Ord. 2012-6, 3-13-2012)
   B.   If any existing sign is repainted or the sign panels are replaced for
the purpose of changing the business, occupation, or tenant advertised or
identified, it shall not be considered a new sign. Ordinary maintenance or
repair of an existing sign to a safe condition shall not be cause to classify
the sign as a new sign.
   C.   In cases of doubt or on a specific question raised whether a
nonconforming sign exists, it shall be a question of fact decided by the zoning
administrator, and may be appealed to the zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 2009-
3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-6: AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT SIGNAGE:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Identification signs associated with permitted uses, not exceeding
thirty two (32) square feet in gross surface area. One such sign shall be
permitted on each frontage.
      2.   Commercial identification sign associated with uses as regulated by
relevant special use permit or permits, not exceeding thirty two (32) square
feet in gross surface area. One such sign shall be permitted on each frontage
with a maximum of two (2) signs.
      3.   Monument signs associated with a public or semipublic use, not
exceeding one hundred twenty eight (128) square feet in gross surface area.
      4.   Memorial or tablet signs: One sign not exceeding six (6) square feet
in size per face unless such signs are installed by the federal, state, county
or city government agencies thereof.
      5.   Property real estate signs: One sign per lot frontage and not
exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in gross surface area. Such sign shall be
removed within five (5) days following the date of closing or lease initiation.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   No sign placed upon the ground shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') to any interior property line and shall meet the sight triangle
requirements of section
8-4A-6 of this chapter.
      2.   No sign attached to the wall of a building or other structures shall
extend above the roofline of that building or structure.
      3.   With the exception of monument signs, no sign shall exceed ten feet
(10') in height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign.
Monument signs shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height from the
surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign.
      4.   Memorial or tablet signs: No sign shall exceed six feet (6') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign.
      5.   Property real estate signs: No sign shall exceed six feet (6') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign. (Ord. 2009-
3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-7: RESIDENTIAL AND PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS SIGNAGE:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Subdivision Identification Signs: Two (2) permanent subdivision
signs not exceeding fifty (50) square feet in size per face inclusive of any
logo shall be allowed per development. Where the development has access on two
(2) or more streets, or has more than one entrance to one street,
identification shall be allowed at each entrance.
      2.   Monument Signs: Monument signs associated with a public or
semipublic use: Not more than one sign per street frontage not exceeding one
hundred twenty eight (128) square feet in size per face inclusive of any logo.
      3.   Residential Construction Project Signs:
         a.   Promotional Signs: One sign not exceeding ninety six (96) square
feet per face. Such signs shall be removed within two (2) years from the date
of issuance of the sign permit, or when eighty percent (80%) of the lots and/or
dwelling units have been sold, whichever circumstance occurs first.
         b.   Directional Signs: Any number of signs not exceeding ten (10)
square feet per face. Such signs may include directions to the development and
pertinent information concerning the developer but shall exclude promotional
information, and shall be removed within two (2) years from the date of
issuance of the sign permit, or when eighty percent (80%) of the lots and/or
dwelling units have been sold, whichever circumstance occurs first.
      4.   Institutional Identification Signs: Institutional identification
signs for churches, schools, hospitals or fraternal, benevolent and social
service organization: One permanent sign shall be allowed on the same premises
provided that said sign does not exceed ninety six (96) square feet in area per
facing on each roadway.
      5.   Special Displays And Other Temporary Signs: See subsection 8-4C-10B
of this article.
      6.   Signs Identifying The Name And/Or Owner(s) Of A Premises: One sign
not exceeding ten (10) square feet in gross surface area shall be permitted at
each entrance to the premises.
      7.   Signs Identifying A Multiple-Family Residential Building: One sign
not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in gross surface area shall be permitted
per lot frontage.
      8.   Property Real Estate Signs: One sign per lot frontage not exceeding
six (6) square feet in size per face.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   Ground Sign: No sign placed upon the ground shall be located closer
than ten feet (10') to any interior property line and shall meet the sight
triangle requirements of section
8-4A-6 of this chapter.
      2.   Wall Signs: No sign attached to the wall of a building or other
structure shall extend above the roofline of that building or structure.
      3.   Residential, Identification, Monument Signs: Residential
construction project signs, subdivision identification signs, monument signs
and institutional identification signs shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign. Other
signs, unless otherwise indicated, shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height
from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign.
      4.   Directional Signs: No sign shall exceed three and one-half feet (31/
2') above the elevation of the adjacent driveway at the point which it meets
the street right of way.
      5.   Property Real Estate Signs: No sign shall exceed six feet (6') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign.
   C.   Other Requirements:
      1.   Construction Signs: Signs identifying mechanics, painters,
architects, engineers, and similar artisans and workmen which are attached to
or on trailers on the site of construction shall be permitted provided that
upon completion of the project the trailer must be removed within one week.
These trailers shall not be located closer than ten feet (10') to the street.
All such signs shall be removed within two (2) years from the date of issuance
of the sign permit, or when the project has received an approved final
inspection.
      2.   Residential Construction Project Sign: Such signs shall be removed
within two (2) years from the date of issuance of the sign permit, or when
eighty percent (80%) of the lots or dwelling units have been sold, whichever
circumstance occurs first.
      3.   Property Real Estate Signs: Shall be removed within five (5) days
following the date of closing or lease initiation.
      4.   Directional Signs: May contain the street address or name of the
business center or the name of the building, trademark, logo, or similar
matter, provided that not more than fifty percent (50%) of the sign area is
used for this purpose. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-8: COMMERCIAL, MANUFACTURING, AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS SIGNAGE:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Residential And PD District Signage: All signs permitted in section
8-4C-7 of this article.
      2.   Attached Signs: One attached sign not exceeding five percent (5%) of
the total square footage of the building face upon which it is placed. In the
instance of corner lots, an additional attached sign will be permitted on each
street footage of the respective building face upon which it is placed. For
buildings with multiple tenants, see other requirements below.
      3.   Ground Signs: One ground sign per lot not exceeding sixty four (64)
square feet per face may be substituted for the allowable pole sign.
      4.   Pole Signs: One pole sign per lot not exceeding ninety six (96)
square feet per face.
      5.   Occupational/Identification Signs: One attached, nonilluminated sign
not exceeding four (4) square feet in size displaying the name, occupation and/
or service located upon the premises and the address.
      6.   Window Signs: Shall not cover more than twenty percent (20%) of the
total window area or door to which they are applied.
      7.   Commercial Directory Signs: For buildings with multiple tenants, a
directory sign may be substituted in lieu of the allowable pole sign and/or
ground mounted sign not exceeding ninety six (96) square feet per face.
      8.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs shall be permitted in lieu of
freestanding signage on any street frontage limited to one sign per occupancy
along any street frontage with public entrance to such an occupancy. Such signs
shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet per face.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   Attached Signs: Shall be face mounted on the building wall,
projecting not more than one and one-half feet (11/2') from the face of the
building. Such signs shall not project above the parapet wall, mansard, or
other roofline, shall maintain a clearance of ten feet (10') above the ground
or pavement, and shall be recessed where involving a pitched roof location.
      2.   Ground Signs: Such signs shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height
from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign and shall be
located no closer than ten feet (10') to any property line. Such signs shall
meet the sight triangle of section
8-4A-6 of this chapter and shall not be located so as to obstruct vision at a
vehicular entry or exit from the property.
      3.   Pole Signs: Such signs shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in height
from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign, and shall be
located no closer than two feet (2') to a street or road rights of way line, no
closer than ten feet (10') to an interior property line. The bottom of the sign
shall be at least eight feet (8') above surrounding grade.
      4.   Occupational/Identification Signs: Such signs shall conform to the
location requirements of subsection A2, "Attached Signs", of this section.
      5.   Window Signs: Such signs may only be attached to the interior of a
window or glass door and shall be maintained in good repair.
      6.   Commercial Directory Signs:
         a.   Ground Sign: Such signs shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign, and shall
be located no closer than ten feet (10') to any public street rights of way or
property line.
         b.   Pole Sign: Such signs shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign, and shall
be located no closer than two feet (2') to a street or road rights of way line,
no closer than ten feet (10') to an interior property line. The bottom of the
sign shall be at least eight feet (8') above surrounding grade.
      7.   Projecting Signs: No such sign shall extend vertically above the
highest point of the building facade upon which it is mounted by more than six
inches (6"), and shall not project horizontally more than eight feet (8'). The
bottom of the sign shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') above grade. No such
sign shall project into or over a public right of way.
      8.   Property Real Estate Signs: No such sign shall exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign,
and shall be located no closer than ten feet (10') to any property line.
   C.   Other Requirements:
      1.   Construction Signs: Construction signs as permitted by subsection 8-
4C-7C, "Other Requirements", of this article.
      2.   Number Of Signs: Each building or property shall be allowed a
maximum of two (2) signs, which may be either an attached sign, a ground sign,
or a pole sign, but the total number shall not include more than one sign of
each of these types. Window signs and occupational/directional signs as
regulated by this section are excluded from this maximum of two (2) signs. When
a directory sign is substituted for the allowable pole and/or ground sign, only
attached and/or fascia signs shall be allowed as additional signs.
      3.   Buildings With Multiple Occupancy: For buildings and/or property
containing more than one business or tenant, each business or tenant may have
one attached or projecting sign conforming to the requirements of this section.
For the purposes of determining the total square footage of the attached or
projecting sign, only the face of each respective lease unit to which the
respective sign will be attached shall be counted. Each sign must be attached
to the lease unit containing the business tenant identified.
      4.   Additional Wall Sign: Each building or property may have one
additional attached sign conforming to the requirements of this section on
walls containing a main entrance which face customer parking areas and are not
visible from either a public or private street. For this exception to apply,
the signs must be attached to the same wall as their respective entrances and
both the signs and the entrances must be upon the same plane of the building.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-9: CONSERVATION DISTRICT SIGNAGE:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Identification signs associated with permitted uses, not exceeding
thirty two (32) square feet in gross surface area. One such sign shall be
permitted on each frontage.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   No sign placed upon the ground shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') to any interior property line and shall meet the sight triangle
requirements of section
8-4A-6 of this chapter.
      2.   No sign attached to the wall of a building or other structures shall
extend above the roofline of that building or structure.
      3.   With the exception of monument signs, no sign shall exceed ten feet
(10') in height from the surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign.
Monument signs shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height from the
surrounding grade to the highest point of the sign.
      4.   Memorial or tablet signs: No sign shall exceed six feet (6') in
height from the surrounding grade to the highest point on the sign. (Ord. 2009-
3, 5-12-2009)
8-4C-10: OTHER SIGNAGE:
   A.   Automobile And Truck Services Stations; Convenience Stores With
Gasoline Pumps:
      1.   Allowable Signs:
         a.   Brand Identification Signs:
            (1)   One pole sign not exceeding ninety six (96) square feet per
face.
            (2)   One ground sign, in lieu of a pole mounted sign, not
exceeding sixty four (64) square feet in size per face.
            (3)   One attached sign not exceeding five percent (5%) of the
total square footage of the building face upon which it is placed. In the
instance of corner lots, an additional sign will be permitted on each street
frontage of building not exceeding five percent (5%) of the total square
footage of the respective building face upon which it is placed.
            (4)   One attached company logo not exceeding thirty two (32)
square feet per street frontage.
         b.   Price Signs:
            (1)   One price sign per pump island not exceeding two (2) square
feet per face per sign.
            (2)   One price sign as component of the permitted pole sign not
exceeding ten (10) square feet per face in lieu of the price signs per pump
island.
            (3)   In those instances where digital price signs are utilized,
such signs shall be constant in nature, and shall not travel, flush, inverse,
write-on, up or down scroll, roll, grow, melt, X-ray, twinkle, snow, or
otherwise change in nature.
         c.   Self-Service And/Or Full Service Signs: Two (2) self-service
signs per pump island not exceeding five (5) square feet per face per sign.
         d.   Federal And State Stamps, Etc.: Federal and state stamps, octane
ratings, pump use directions, no smoking signs, as required by federal, state
and local authorities.
      2.   Location And Height:
         a.   Brand Identification Signs:
            (1)   Pole signs: As regulated by this section.
            (2)   Ground mounted signs: As regulated by this section.
            (3)   Attached signs: As regulated by this section.
         b.   Company Logos: As regulated by this section for attached signs.
         c.   Price Signs And Self-Service And/Or Full Service Signs: Shall be
located at the ends of pump island and may be affixed to the canopy, canopy
supports, poles or end pumps.
         d.   Federal And State Stamps, Etc.: Shall be placed upon the body of
the gasoline pump, or as required by the respective governmental authority.
      3.   Other Requirements:
         a.   Canopy Use: An attached or detached canopy may be used in lieu of
the permitted pole sign for the location of brand identification signs, or as
an alternative location for price signs, or company logos.
         b.   Portable Signs: The use of portable signs for the advertisement
of cigarettes, food, or other sundry items is specifically prohibited.
   B.   Special Displays And Other Temporary Signs:
      1.   The following temporary signs may be approved by the zoning
administrator for up to a thirty (30) day time period. The use of such devices
for special promotions shall be limited to three (3) such events for each
business in a calendar year with a maximum time period of fourteen (14) days
for each event. These events may be consecutive.
         a.   Banners and pennants.
         b.   Sign announcing openings.
         c.   Seasonal or special occasion signs such as special events and
special business hours.
   C.   Standard Outdoor Advertising Structures (Billboards):
      1.   Where Permitted: Advertising signs complying with all the
requirements of this title shall be permitted upon all property with the M
general manufacturing and I industrial districts. Within areas zoned PD planned
development district or property in any district upon which a special use
permit has been issued, such advertising signs shall only be permitted when
specifically authorized upon the final development plan or permit approval.
      2.   Area And Height:
         a.   The maximum area for any one sign shall not exceed six hundred
seventy two (672) square feet in size per face excluding extensions and
embellishments, with a maximum height of fourteen feet (14') and a maximum
length of forty eight feet (48') inclusive of border and trim, but excluding
the base, apron, supports, and other structural members.
         b.   Extensions to the top of advertising signs are permitted.
However, in no case shall any extensions exceed ninety six (96) square feet in
total area or extend more than five and one-half feet (51/2') in height above
the top of said sign. Other extensions are permitted as follows:
            (1)   Side extensions: Two feet (2') on each side.
            (2)   Bottom extensions: One foot (1').
         c.   Embellishments to advertising signs shall not exceed one foot
(1') out from the facing of said sign.
         d.   The maximum height shall not exceed fifty feet (50') from the
highest point on the sign to surrounding grade or street level, whichever is
higher.
         e.   The maximum size limitations shall apply to each side of a sign
structure, and signs may be placed back to back or in a V-type construction
with not more than three (3) side by side displays to each facing, but such
sign structures shall be considered as one sign. A group of not more than two
(2) advertising signs shall be permitted on one sign structure. However, there
shall be no vertical stacking signs.
      3.   Location:
         a.   No such sign shall be erected within one thousand (1,000) linear
feet of an existing sign in any direction, considering both sides of the road
as one.
         b.   No such sign shall be located within one thousand (1,000) linear
feet of a residential district.
         c.   No sign shall be located in such a manner as to obstruct or
otherwise physically interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic
sign, signal, or device or obstruct or physically interfere with a motor
vehicle operator's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
         d.   No structures may be located adjacent to or within five hundred
feet (500') of an interchange, intersection at grade, or safety rest area. Said
five hundred feet (500') shall be measured from the beginning or ending of the
pavement widening at the exit from or entrance to the main traveled way.
         e.   The minimum front yard setback for such signs shall be fifty feet
(50') from any public right of way, and/or private roadway easement.
         f.   No sign shall be located on any public or private utility
easement, road, drainage easement, or railroad right of way.
         g.   All linear distances required by this section shall be measured
from the nearest outside edge of the subject sign, whether a support,
structural member, or the sign surface itself, to the nearest outside edge of
the corresponding sign, building, right of way, or easement involved.
      4.   Plans Required: An application to erect such a sign shall be
accompanied by the following:
         a.   A site plan to scale containing:
            (1)   The proposed location for the sign upon the property.
            (2)   The distance from the proposed sign location to any buildings
upon the property, and adjoining street right of way lines, and driveway
entrances.
            (3)   The distance from the proposed sign location to the next
nearest billboard sign on either side of the street in either direction.
            (4)   The distance from the proposed sign location to the nearest
street intersection in either direction.
            (5)   Lighting plan.
            (6)   Other information deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator.
         b.   A representation of the proposed sign, to scale, including the
width and length of the sign faces, and height from surrounding grade.
      5.   Construction Specification: Henceforth, any such sign erected under
this title shall be single pedestal type, constructed of nonflammable material,
excluding wood.
   D.   Tourist Oriented Destination Signs (TODS): Permitted in all districts
and may only be acquired through the appropriate highway authority. TODS are
located in the ROW by the highway authority. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE D. OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4D-1: Scope Of Regulations
8-4D-2: Existing Parking Facilities
8-4D-3: Permissive Parking And Loading Facilities
8-4D-4: Damage Or Destruction
8-4D-5: Off Street Parking General Provisions
8-4D-6: Off Street Parking Design And Maintenance
8-4D-7: Off Street Parking Space Requirements
8-4D-1: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The off street parking and off street loading provisions of this title shall
apply as follows:
   A.   Accessory off street parking and off street loading facilities shall be
provided as required by the regulations of this article for all buildings and
structures erected and all uses of land established in each district after the
effective date hereof.
   B.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises shall
be increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity, or other units of measurement in the amount specified herein
requiring parking or loading facilities, such additional parking and loading
facilities as required herein shall be provided.
   C.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter be
changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if said building or structure was erected
prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or loading facilities
are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the new use
would exceed those for the existing use, if the latter were subject to the
parking and loading provisions of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4D-2: EXISTING PARKING FACILITIES:
Accessory off street parking facilities in existence on the effective date
hereof and located on the same lot as the building or use served shall not
hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than shall not be further
reduced below, the requirements for a similar new building or use under the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4D-3: PERMISSIVE PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES:
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of
off street parking or loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or
buildings, provided that all regulations herein governing the location, design,
and operation of such facilities are adhered to. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4D-4: DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION:
For any conforming or nonconforming building or use which is in existence on
the effective date hereof, which subsequently is damaged or destroyed by fire,
collapse, explosion, or other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished,
or repaired, additional off street parking or loading facilities need not be
provided, except that such parking or loading facilities equivalent to any
maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or
continued in operation. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4D-5: OFF STREET PARKING GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Off street parking facilities for motor vehicles shall be provided in
accordance with the following regulations:
   A.   Use: Accessory off street parking facilities required for uses listed
herein shall be solely for the parking of passenger automobiles of patrons,
occupants, or employees. When bus transportation is provided for patrons,
occupants or employees of a specific establishment, additional open or enclosed
off street parking spaces for each bus to be parked on the premises shall be
provided in accordance with regulations of sections
8-4D-6 and
8-4D-7 of this article.
   B.   Computation: When determination of the number of off street parking
spaces required by this title results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space.
   C.   Collective Provisions: Off street parking facilities for separate uses
may be provided collectively if the total number of spaces so provided is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each use and provided that
all regulations governing location of accessory parking spaces, in relation to
the use served, are adhered to. Further, no parking spaces or portions thereof
shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless otherwise
authorized by the zoning board of appeals.
   D.   Employee Parking: Parking spaces required on an employee basis shall be
based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both on the
premises at any one time.
   E.   Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind
shall be permitted in conjunction with any accessory parking facilities. No
gasoline or motor oil shall be sold in conjunction with any accessory parking
facilities.
   F.   Accessible/Handicapped Spaces: In addition to the requirements of
section
8-4D-7 of this article, accessible/handicapped parking spaces shall be provided
as required below or as amended per the current requirements of the Illinois
accessibility code.
Total Off Street Parking Spaces Required Required Minimum Number  Of Accessible
                                         Spaces
Total Off Street Parking Spaces Required Required Minimum Number  Of Accessible
                                         Spaces
                                         
   1 to 25                            1
   26 to 50                           2
   51 to 75                           3
   76 to 100                          4
   101 to 150                         5
   151 to 200                         6
   201 to 300                         7
   301 to 400                         8
   401 to 500                         9
   501 to 1,000                       2 percent of total number
   Over 1,000                         20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
      1.   Parking Space Dimensions: Shall be at least twenty feet (20') in
length and sixteen feet (16') in width including an eight foot (8') wide
diagonally striped access aisle.
      2.   Location: Accessible parking spaces serving a particular building
shall be located on the shortest accessible route of travel from adjacent
parking to an accessible entrance. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4D-6: OFF STREET PARKING DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Open And Enclosed Parking Spaces: Accessory parking spaces may be open
to the sky or enclosed in a building, carport or structure.
   B.   Surfacing: All open off street parking areas, containing more than
eight (8) parking spaces shall be graded and paved with asphalt, concrete,
asphaltic concrete, or seal coat except in the following instances:
      1.   Parking lots that are accessory to a special event as approved in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
      2.   Agricultural demonstrations and other not for profit activities.
   C.   Screening: Where automobile parking areas containing more than eight
(8) parking spaces are located less than forty feet (40') from the nearest
property line of a lot in an R-1 single-family district or R-2 two-family
district or a lot containing a dwelling as a principal use, they shall be
effectively screened from such property line by a transition screen meeting the
specifications of section
8-4A-9 of this chapter.
   D.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
create a nuisance. (See section
8-4E-3, "Outdoor Lighting Standards", of this chapter.)
   E.   Driveways: Each required off street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movement. No driveway that crosses public property at the right of way line
shall exceed a width of twenty five feet (25') in a residential district and
thirty five feet (35') in commercial and industrial districts.
   F.   Location: All parking spaces required to serve buildings or uses
erected or established after the effective date hereof shall be located on the
same lot as the building or use served. Buildings or uses existing on the
effective date hereof which are subsequently altered or enlarged so as to
require the provision of parking spaces under this title may be served by
parking facilities located on other than the lot on which the building or use
served is located, provided such facilities are within three hundred feet
(300') walking distance of the main entrance of the use served.
   G.   Parking Space Dimensions: Required off street parking spaces shall be
at least nine feet (9') in width and at least twenty feet (20') in length,
exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office or work areas.
Enclosed parking spaces shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet
(7'). (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4D-7: OFF STREET PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum number of off street parking spaces required for uses allowed are
provided in schedules A and B of this section. Schedule A provides off street
parking requirements for land uses with a single type of activity and schedule
B provides off street parking requirements for land uses with multiple types of
activities.
SCHEDULE A
 
Residential:
Dwelling unit or lodging unit in     1 parking space per dwelling unit
commercial building, where permitted
Group residential facility           1 parking space per bedroom in a lodging
                                     unit
Single-family dwelling, including    2 parking spaces per dwelling unit
manufactured/mobile homes
Two-family dwelling; multi-family    2 parking spaces per dwelling unit
dwelling
 
SCHEDULE B
Commercial:                                                                      
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                employee plus
                                                                                3 parking
Animal hospital, clinic, and physician's office                                 spaces for
                                                                                each licensed
                                                                                professional,
                                                                                staff, or
                                                                                visiting
                                                                                physician
                                                                                1 space per 10
Auto sales lot                                                                  vehicles to be
                                                                                offered for
                                                                                sale
                                                                                4 spaces per
                                                                                bowling lane
                                                                                plus 1 space
                                                                                for every 2
                                                                                full time
Bowling alley                                                                   employees plus
                                                                                sufficient
                                                                                spaces for
                                                                                other uses
                                                                                contained in
                                                                                the facility
                                                                                1 space for
                                                                                each 6 client
                                                                                children at
Daycare facilities                                                              maximum
                                                                                capacity, plus
                                                                                1 for each
                                                                                full time
                                                                                employee
Elderly housing                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                dwelling
                                                                                1 space per
                                                                                300 square
General retail sales and service operations                                     feet of floor
                                                                                area or
                                                                                portion
                                                                                thereof
                                                                                1 space for 2
                                                                                users at
                                                                                maximum
                                                                                capacity plus
Golf club                                                                       sufficient
                                                                                spaces for
                                                                                other uses
                                                                                contained in
                                                                                the facility
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space for the
                                                                                owner or
                                                                                manager if
                                                                                resident on
Hotel, motel, tourist home, private club, and all other similar places offering the premises,
overnight accommodations                                                        plus 1 parking
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                accommodation/
                                                                                unit and 0.55
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                employee
Marina                                                                          1 space per
                                                                                boat slip
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                4 seats or
                                                                                portion
                                                                                thereof in the
Mortuary, undertaking and funeral parlor                                        chapel or
                                                                                parlor plus 1
                                                                                parking space
                                                                                for each
                                                                                vehicle
                                                                                maintained on
                                                                                the premises
Nursing home                                                                    1 space per 2
                                                                                bedrooms
                                                                                4 spaces per
                                                                                1,000 square
                                                                                feet of office
                                                                                floor space
                                                                                for the first
Office                                                                          20,000 square
                                                                                feet plus 2
                                                                                spaces per
                                                                                1,000 square
                                                                                feet above
                                                                                20,000
Place of public assembly, including churches, private clubs, lodges, and
fraternal organizations not providing overnight accommodations, assembly halls,
exhibition halls, town halls, convention halls, auditoriums, skating rinks,
dance halls, movie theaters, athletic fields, sports arenas, stadiums,           
gymnasiums, amusement parks, racetracks, fairgrounds, circus grounds,
exposition grounds, community buildings, public administration buildings, and
other similar places of relatively infrequent public assembly:
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                4 seats
                                                                                provided for
                                                                                patrons' use,
                                                                                or at least 1
                                                                                parking space
   For building and other enclosed structures                                for each 200
                                                                                square feet of
                                                                                floor area,
                                                                                whichever
                                                                                requires the
                                                                                greater number
                                                                                of parking
                                                                                spaces
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space per 3
                                                                                patrons based
                                                                                on the
                                                                                estimated
   For outdoor areas, including nonpermanent structures, used for exhibit,   number of
educational, entertainment, recreational, or other purpose involving assemblage patrons during
of patrons                                                                      peak
                                                                                attendance on
                                                                                a given day
                                                                                during the
                                                                                period said
                                                                                use is in
                                                                                operation
                                                                                Required
                                                                                parking spaces
                                                                                shall be
                                                                                calculated
                                                                                separately per
   When a use involves a combination of enclosed buildings or structures and the above
outdoor area                                                                    standards and
                                                                                then totaled
                                                                                to obtain the
                                                                                required
                                                                                parking spaces
                                                                                for said use
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space for
Retail establishment for sale of food and/or beverages to be consumed on the    every 100
premises                                                                        square feet of
                                                                                floor area or
                                                                                portion
                                                                                thereof
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space per 3
                                                                                horses
                                                                                boarded, 1
                                                                                parking space
                                                                                for each horse
                                                                                trailer stored
Riding stable                                                                   on the site, 1
                                                                                parking space
                                                                                for each
                                                                                riding arena
                                                                                operated, and
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space for each
                                                                                employee
School:                                                                          
                                                                                2 parking
                                                                                spaces per
                                                                                classroom; but
                                                                                not less than
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space per
                                                                                teacher and
   Elementary school                                                         staff, nor
                                                                                fewer than the
                                                                                number
                                                                                required for
                                                                                the largest
                                                                                public
                                                                                assembly
                                                                                spaces
                                                                                provided
                                                                                1 1/2 parking
                                                                                spaces per
                                                                                classroom; but
                                                                                not less than
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space per
                                                                                teacher and
   Intermediate school                                                       staff, nor
                                                                                fewer than the
                                                                                number
                                                                                required for
                                                                                the largest
                                                                                public
                                                                                assembly space
                                                                                provided
                                                                                1 parking
                                                                                space per
                                                                                teacher and
                                                                                staff and 1
                                                                                parking space
                                                                                per 3 students
   Secondary school                                                          enrolled, but
                                                                                no fewer than
                                                                                the number
                                                                                required for
                                                                                the largest
                                                                                public
                                                                                assembly space
                                                                                provided
                                                                                1 per 2
                                                                                employees plus
                                                                                1 space per 5
   Vocational school                                                         students based
                                                                                on the maximum
                                                                                designed
                                                                                student
                                                                                population
Shopping center:                                                                 
                                                                                5 spaces per
                                                                                1,000 square
                                                                                feet minimum;
   Less than 15,000 square feet                                              and 51/
                                                                                2 spaces per
                                                                                1,000 square
                                                                                feet maximum
                                                                                4 spaces per
                                                                                1,000 square
   15,000 to 400,000 square feet                                             feet minimum;
                                                                                5 spaces per
                                                                                1,000 square
                                                                                feet maximum
                                                                                4 spaces per
                                                                                1,000 square
   400,000 to 600,000 square feet                                            feet minimum;
                                                                                5 spaces per
                                                                                1,000 square
                                                                                feet maximum
                                                                                5 spaces per
   More than 600,000 square feet                                             1,000 square
                                                                                feet minimum
                                                                                and maximum
                                                                                1 space per
Industrial                                                                      employee at
                                                                                maximum shift
                                                                                1 space per
Manufacturing                                                                   employee at
                                                                                maximum shift
 
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE E. LIGHTING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4E-1: Purpose And Intent
8-4E-2: Applicability
8-4E-3: Outdoor Lighting Standards
8-4E-4: Special Uses And Exemptions
8-4E-5: Certification
8-4E-6: Measurement
8-4E-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this article is to provide outdoor lighting standards that will
improve safety, minimize glare and light trespass, and conserve energy for
businesses and residents of Jo Daviess County. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4E-2: APPLICABILITY:
All new commercial, manufacturing, industrial and residential outdoor lighting
installations shall meet the requirements of this article. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-4E-3: OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
   A.   Shielding Standards:
      1.   All nonexempt outdoor lighting fixtures with an initial output
greater than or equal to two thousand (2,000) lumens shall be full cutoff.
      2.   All outdoor lighting fixtures with initial output less than two
thousand (2,000) lumens are exempt from the requirements of this article.
      3.   All full cutoff outdoor lighting fixtures shall be installed and
maintained in such a manner as to be horizontal to the ground so that the
cutoff characteristics of the fixture are maintained.
      4.   Beyond the cutoff requirements of this section all light fixtures
shall be located, aimed or shielded so as to minimize light trespass across
property boundaries. Where applicable, all commercial installations shall
utilize house-side shielding to minimize light trespass on residential
properties.
   B.   Reduced Lighting Levels: Lighting levels shall be reduced to security
levels within thirty (30) minutes after the close of business or the end of the
business activity. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4E-4: SPECIAL USES AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Recreational Sports Facilities Lighting:
      1.   Shielding: Full cutoff lighting is strongly recommended. Where full
cutoff fixtures are not utilized, acceptable outdoor light fixtures shall
include those which:
         a.   Are provided with internal and/or external glare control louvers
and installed so as to minimize uplight and off site light trespass, and
         b.   Are installed and maintained with aiming angles that permit no
greater than five percent (5%) of the light emitted by each fixture to project
above the horizontal.
      2.   Off Site Spill: The installation shall also limit off site spill
(off the parcel containing the sports facility) to the maximum extent possible
consistent with the illumination constraints of the design. A design goal of
seventy five hundredths (0.75) full cutoff at any location on any
nonresidential property, and twenty five hundredths (0.25) full cutoff at any
location on any residential property, as measurable from any orientation of the
measuring device, shall be sought.
   B.   Service Station Canopies: Lighting fixtures under any canopy shall be
full cutoff to prevent glare. The portions of the canopy not included in the
sign area shall not be illuminated.
   C.   Outdoor Advertising Signs:
      1.   Internally illuminated signs shall have dark backgrounds with light
lettering.
      2.   Externally illuminated signs shall be lighted from the top down and
lighting will be directed to minimize glare and light spill to nonsign areas.
   D.   Facade Lighting: The lighting of building facades is allowed and cutoff
fixtures as defined by the Illuminating Engineering Society of North America
(IESNA) are not required so long as shielded and directional fixtures are used.
Fixtures must be installed and aimed so as to minimize glare, sky glow and
light trespass.
   E.   Holiday Lighting: Holiday lighting is exempt from the provisions of
this article.
   F.   Flag Lighting: The lighting of flags is allowed and cutoff fixtures as
defined by the IESNA are not required so long as shielded and directional
fixtures are used. Fixtures must be installed and aimed so as to minimize
glare, sky glow and light trespass.
   G.   Emergency Lighting: Emergency lighting, used by police, firefighting,
or medical personnel, or at their direction, is exempt from all provisions of
this article for as long as the emergency exists.
   H.   Temporary Lighting: Temporary lighting, such as that used at
construction sites or other uses of a temporary nature, is exempt from the
provisions of this article. However temporary lighting shall be aimed so as to
minimize glare and light trespass to adjacent properties and turned off upon
the completion of the project.
   I.   State Maintained Roadways: Lighting for state maintained roadways is
exempt from the provisions of this article.
   J.   Aviation Facility Lighting: ILS landing lighting systems, taxiway
lighting, heliport landing area lighting, rotating beacons for landing
facilities, and anything relating to the safety and direction of aircraft
required by the FAA, state of Illinois department of aviation, or other
aviation governing bodies, is exempt from the provisions of this article. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4E-5: CERTIFICATION:
Commercial and industrial installations must certify that the lighting system
design and installation conforms to all applicable provisions of this article.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4E-6: MEASUREMENT:
Unless otherwise stated all luminance measurements for the purpose of this
article shall be made at ground level with the meter oriented horizontally.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
ARTICLE F. ADOPTION OF OTHER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4F-1: Building Regulations
8-4F-2: Land Evaluation Site Assessment (LESA)
8-4F-3: Special Flood Hazard Areas Ordinance
8-4F-4: Regulation Of Telecommunications Facilities
8-4F-5: Public Nuisance Ordinance
8-4F-6: Guest Accommodations Ordinance
8-4F-7: Subdivision Ordinance
8-4F-1: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
The building ordinance adopted December 14, 1999, by the Jo Daviess County
board, as from time to time amended, shall be applied to all zoning decisions
under this title. It provides minimum standards to safeguard life, limb,
health, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction, quality of materials, use and occupancy, location and maintenance
of all buildings and structures within the unincorporated areas of Jo Daviess
County and certain equipment specifically regulated therein. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-
12-2009)
8-4F-2: LAND EVALUATION SITE ASSESSMENT (LESA):
The land evaluation site assessment ordinance adopted by the Jo Daviess County
board on July 11, 2006, as from time to time amended and approved by the
Illinois department of agriculture, bureau of land and water resources and USDA
- natural resources conservation services, shall be used in the analysis of all
zoning decisions under this title as may be applicable by said ordinance. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4F-3: SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS ORDINANCE:
The JD special flood hazard areas ordinance adopted December 12, 2006, as from
time to time amended, shall be applied to all of the zoning decisions under
this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4F-4: REGULATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
The regulation of "telecommunications facilities" as defined in the ordinance
regulation of telecommunications facilities adopted on July 9, 2002, by the
county board of Jo Daviess County, as from time to time amended, and shall be
governed by the terms of that ordinance and as may be regulated by the laws of
the United States or the state of Illinois. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4F-5: PUBLIC NUISANCE ORDINANCE:
The Jo Daviess County public nuisance ordinance adopted by the Jo Daviess
County board on June 11, 1996, as from time to time amended, and shall be
applied to all zoning decisions under this title. Its purpose is to define and
abate public nuisances in the unincorporated area of Jo Daviess County,
Illinois. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4F-6: GUEST ACCOMMODATIONS ORDINANCE:
The guest accommodations ordinance adopted by the county board of Jo Daviess
County, Illinois on August 10, 1999, as from time to time amended, and shall be
applied to all zoning decisions under this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-4F-7: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE:
The subdivision ordinance adopted September of 1991, by the Jo Daviess County
board, as from time to time amended, shall be applied to all zoning decisions
under this title. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
CHAPTER 5
USE TABLE AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. USE TABLE
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Purpose And Intent
8-5A-2: Permitted Uses
8-5A-3: Special Uses
8-5A-4: Not Permitted
8-5A-5: Standards
8-5A-6: Table
8-5A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The use table provides a tabular summary of the land use types allowed within
each zoning district. The table is intended for reference and does not
necessarily reflect all of the regulations that may apply to particular uses or
districts. In the event of conflict between the use regulations listed within
this chapter and the zoning district regulations of chapter 3 of this title,
the text of the zoning district regulations shall prevail. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses identified in a zoning district column of the use table with a "P" shall
be permitted in such zoning district. Permitted uses shall also be subject to
the standards and regulations as may be indicated in the "use standards" column
and all other requirements of this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5A-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses identified in a zoning district column of the use table with an "S" shall
be permitted in such zoning district if reviewed and approved in accordance
with the standards of chapter 2, article D of this title. Special uses shall be
subject to the standards and regulations as may be indicated in the "use
standards" column and all other requirements of this zoning ordinance. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5A-4: NOT PERMITTED:
Uses not identified in a zoning district column of the use table as permitted
uses or special uses are not allowed in such zoning district unless otherwise
expressly permitted by other regulations of this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2009-
3, 5-12-2009)
8-5A-5: STANDARDS:
A section number in the "use standards" column of the use table refers to
standards and regulations applicable to the particular use in one or more of
the districts in which such use is allowed. The referenced standards appear in
article B of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5A-6:TABLE:
The use table is as follows:
USE TABLE
         Zoning Districts
         Residential   Nonresidential
Use Type AG R-1 R-2 RP CON C M I      Use Standards
                             Zoning Districts
                             Residential   Nonresidential
Use Type                     AG R-1 R-2 RP CON C M I      Use Standards
Accessory uses               P  P   P   P  P   P P P      8-5B-1
Adult use cannabis           S                      
Craft grower                 S              S S      8-5B-53 D
Cultivation Center           S              S S      8-5B-53 E
Dispensing Organization      S             S S S      8-5B-53 F
Infuser                      S             S S S      8-5B-53 G
Processor                    S             S S S      8-5B-53 H
Transporter                  S             S S S      8-5B-53 I
Agri-tourism:                P                     8-5B-51
Agricultural education       P                      
center
Christmas tree sales/cut     P                      
your own
Cooking demonstrations       P                      
Exotic animal farm           P                      
Farm tours                   P                      
Fee fishing/hunting          P                      
Game preserve                P                      
Hay tunnels/mazes/crop art   P                      
Hay/wagon/sleigh rides       P                      
Horse stables and riding;    P                      
horseback riding
On farm sales                P                      
Petting zoos                 P                      
Picnicking                   P                      
School tours                 P                      
U-pick operations            P                      
Wildlife viewing and         P                      
photography
Agriculture                  P  P   P   P  P   P P P       
Areas of natural,
historical/cultural,         P        S  P            
geological, educational, or
research significance
Home occupations/home office P  P   P   P             8-5B-16
Interpretive center          P          P            
Rural business uses when
found to be compatible with  S                      
established uses on
adjoining property
Temporary uses               P  P   P   P  P   P P P      8-5B-37
Waste consolidation point         S   P              
Residential uses:                                  
Assisted living                S   P   S              
Detached accessory dwelling  S  S                   8-5B-52
unit
Detached accessory dwelling  S  S                   8-5B-52
unit; manufactured homes
Duplex                            P   P             8-5B-31,
                                                          8-5B-33
Group home                   S  P   P   S             8-5B-15,
                                                          8-5B-33
Group residential                         S         
Guest accommodations and     P  P   P   P     P        8-5B-46
guest houses/homes
Manufactured home,           S1 P   P   P             8-5B-20,
residential design           P2                           8-5B-33
Manufactured/mobile home          P                8-5B-19
Manufactured/mobile home          S                8-5B-21
park
Modular home - agricultural  P2                    8-5B-32
residence                    S1
Modular home -               S1 P   P   P             8-5B-33
nonagricultural              P2
Multi-family                      S   P             8-5B-23,
                                                          8-5B-33
Rural home based off         S                     8-5B-43
premises business
Single-family, attached           P   P             8-5B-31,
dwelling                                                  8-5B-33
Single-family, detached      P2                    8-5B-32
agricultural residence       S1
Single-family, detached      S1 P   P   P             8-5B-33
nonagricultural residence    P2
Single-family, underground   P2                    8-5B-32,
agricultural residence       S1                           8-5B-34
Single-family, underground   S1 P   P                8-5B-33,
nonagricultural residence    P2                           8-5B-34
Single-family, zero lot line   P   P   P             8-5B-35,
dwelling/condos                                           8-5B-33
Transitional living facility   S   S                8-5B-38
Commercial uses:                                   
Adult entertainment                         S      8-5B-2
establishment
Agricultural processing      S             S S S       
Agricultural sales and       S             P P P       
service
Animal care, general         S             S P        
Animal care, limited         S             P P        
Auction rooms                S             P         
Bank or financial                         P         
institution
Bed and breakfast            S  S   S   S     S        8-5B-5
Car wash                                  P P P       
Catering establishment                    P         
Childcare facility                        P         
Childcare institution          S   S                 
Construction sales and                    S P P       
service
Daycare center                 S   S                8-5B-12
Daycare home                 P  P   P   P             8-5B-12
Festivals/events, large      S  S      S              
scale
Food store                                P         
Greenhouse/nursery           S          S   P P P      8-5B-14
Greenhouse/wholesale         P                      
Health club                          S     P P        
Hotel or motel                            P P        
Kennel, commercial           S             S P P      8-5B-49
Manufactured home sales                   P P        
Office, general                           P P        
Paintball establishments     S                     8-5B-25
Parking lot, commercial                   P P        
Racetracks                                S S S      8-5B-26
Recreation and                       S  S   P P        
entertainment, indoor
Recreation and               S        S  S   S S       8-5B-27
entertainment, outdoor
Repair service                            P P P       
Research service                          S S S       
Restaurant, fast food                     P P        
Restaurant, general          S             P P        
Retail sales and service                  P P        
Service station, automotive               S P        
Service station, truck stop               S P        
Studio (radio, television,                        Vehicle and equipment
film, or music)                                           salesPPP8-5B-41
Vehicle paint and body shop               S P P      8-5B-41
Vehicle repair                            S P P      8-5B-41
Warehouse, self-storage      S        S     P P P      8-5B-45
Public, quasi-public, and                          
institutional:
Airport or airstrip          S              S S      8-5B-3
Auditorium or stadium                     S S S       
Camp, institutional          S                     8-5B-6
Camp, recreational           S        S  S           8-5B-7
Cemeteries, mausoleums, or   S        S     S S S      8-5B-8
columbariums
Churches, chapels, temples,  S  S   S   S     P        8-5B-9
or synagogues
Club, private                        S     P S        
College or university             S        S S S      8-5B-30
Community center                     S              
Competitive communication    S             S S S      8-5B-10
tower
Correctional facility                      S S       
Crematory                    S             S P P       
Cultural service                          P P P       
Funeral home                              P P        
Golf course                  S  S   S   S     P        8-5B-13
Government service           S  S   S   S     P P P       
Heliport or helipad          S             S P P       
Hospital                             S     P P        
Library                        S   S        P P        
Marina                         S   S   S     P        8-5B-22
Medical service                           P         
Military/paramilitary        S             S S S       
facility
Nursing home                   S   P   S     S         
Parks and recreation area    S  S   S   S  P   S S S       
Philanthropic institutions   S        S     P         
Post office                               P P        
Recreational vehicle park    S        S     S P       8-5B-28
Safety service               S  S   S        S S        
School (elementary, middle,  S  S   S   S     S S S      8-5B-30
high)
Shooting range               S             S S       8-5B-47
Stables, public              S                      
Telecommunications tower     P  S   S   S     P P P      8-5B-42
Vocational school            S  S   S        S S S      8-5B-30
Manufacturing, industrial                          
and extractive uses:
Asphalt batch plant          S               S      8-5B-4
Basic industry                             S P       
Concrete plant               S               S      8-5B-4
Contractor shop and office                P P P      8-5B-11
Fertilizer distribution      S              P P       
plant
Food/bakery product                        P P       
manufacturing
Freight terminal                           P P      8-5B-44
Gas and fuel sales/storage           S      S P       
Hazardous operation                         S       
Integrated center                         S S S       
Landfill                                    S      8-5B-17
Landscape waste composting   S        S      S S      8-5B-18
and mulching facility
Laundry plan                               P P       
Manufacturing and assembly                 P P       
Mining or quarrying          S              S S      8-5B-17
Oil or gas drilling/         S              S P      8-5B-24
refining/distillation
Printing and publishing                    P P       
Salvage yard                               S S      8-5B-29
Solar energy systems,        S              S S      8-5B-54
commercial
Solar energy systems,        P  P   P   P  P   P P P       
private
Solid waste collection/              S      S S      8-5B-36
processing
Solid waste transfer station               S P      8-5B-36
Stockyard                    S               S       
Transit facility                          P P P       
Trucking facility                         S P P      8-5B-44
Utility, major               S  S   S   S     S S S      8-5B-39
Utility, minor               P  P   P   P  S   P P P       
Warehousing and wholesale                  P P       
Welding or machine shop                    S P       
Wind energy conversion       P  P   S   S     S S S      8-5B-50
systems, private
Wind energy conversion       S              S S      8-5B-40
facility, commercial
Wind generators, commercial  S                     8-5B-40
 
Notes:
   1.   On lots less than 40 acres.
   2.   On lots 40 acres or more.
(Ord. 2015-7, 11-10-2015; amd. Ord. 2016-8, 10-11-2016; Ord. 2019-4, 12-10-
2019; Ord. O2023-6, 5-9-2023)
ARTICLE B. USE STANDARDS 1
SECTION:
8-5B-1: Accessory Uses
8-5B-2: Adult Entertainment Establishment
8-5B-3: Airport Or Airstrip
8-5B-4: Asphalt Plant
8-5B-5: Bed And Breakfast Establishments
8-5B-6: Camp, Institutional
8-5B-7: Camp, Recreational
8-5B-8: Cemeteries, Mausoleums Or Columbariums
8-5B-9: Churches, Chapels, Temples Or Synagogues
8-5B-10: Competitive Communication Towers
8-5B-11: Contractor Shop And Office
8-5B-12: Daycare (Center, Home)
8-5B-13: Golf Courses
8-5B-14: Greenhouses And Nurseries
8-5B-15: Group Home
8-5B-16: Home Occupations
8-5B-17: Landfills, Mining, And Quarrying
8-5B-18: Landscape Waste Composting And Mulching Facility
8-5B-19: Manufactured Home/Mobile Home
8-5B-20: Manufactured Home, Residential Design
8-5B-21: Manufactured Home Parks
8-5B-22: Marina
8-5B-23: Multi-Family
8-5B-24: Oil And Gas Drilling/Refining
8-5B-25: Paintball Establishments
8-5B-26: Racetracks
8-5B-27: Recreation And Entertainment, Outdoor
8-5B-28: Recreational Vehicle Parks
8-5B-29: Salvage Yard
8-5B-30: Schools
8-5B-31: Single-Family Attached Dwelling
8-5B-32: Single-Family, Detached Agricultural Residence
8-5B-33: Single-Family, Detached Nonagricultural Residence
8-5B-34: Single-Family, Underground Residence
8-5B-35: Single-Family, Zero Lot Line Dwelling
8-5B-36: Solid Waste Transfer Station
8-5B-37: Temporary Uses
8-5B-38: Transitional Living Center
8-5B-39: Utility, Major
8-5B-40: Wind Energy Conversion (WECSs) Facility, Commercial
8-5B-41: Vehicle/Equipment Sales, Vehicle/Equipment Storage Yards And Vehicle
Paint And Body Shop, Vehicle Repair
8-5B-42: Facilities Of A Telecommunications Carrier
8-5B-43: Rural Home Based Off Premises Business
8-5B-44: Freight Terminals And Trucking Facilities
8-5B-45: Warehouse, Self-Storage
8-5B-46: Guest Accommodations And Guest Houses/Homes
8-5B-47: Shooting Range
8-5B-48: Lot Configuration
8-5B-49: Kennel, Commercial
8-5B-50: Wind Energy Conversion Systems, Private
8-5B-51: Agri-Tourism Standard
8-5B-52: Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit And Detached Accessory Dwelling Unit;
Manufactured Homes
8-5B-53: Adult-Use Cannabis
8-5B-54: Solar Energy Facility, Commercial
 
Notes
1 1. The use standards of this article shall apply to permitted uses, special
  uses and accessory uses as noted.
8-5B-1: ACCESSORY USES:
Permitted uses and approved special uses shall be deemed to include accessory
uses and activities that are customarily associated with, and appropriate,
incidental, and subordinate to the principal uses allowed in zoning districts.
Accessory uses and activities shall be subject to the same regulations as apply
to principal uses in each district, unless otherwise stated in this title.
The Zoning Administrator may issue a temporary permit for the residential use,
by one (1) family, of any accessory building while the principal dwelling is
under construction. Such temporary permit shall be valid until the date of the
first occupancy of the principal building or eighteen (18) months after the
issuance of the permit, whichever is the earlier date. One (1) accessory
building may be established on a lot prior to the establishment of the
principal use, provided that such building shall not exceed the maximum
allowable square footage as established in the parcel's zoning district
intensity of use regulations.
   A.   Agricultural Accessory Uses: Agricultural accessory uses include, but
shall not be limited to, the following activities and structures:
      Barns, carports and off-street parking and loading areas, provided that a
detached garage or carport shall not cover more than ten percent (10%) of the
total lot area.
      Distillation of ethyl alcohol (ethanol) from agricultural crops and the
processing of byproducts from such distillation when such alcohol is utilized
as fuel for agricultural purposes on the premises.
      Fences and walls.
      Garages.
      Gardens.
      Gates and guardhouses.
      Grain elevators for the storage of grains other than commercial grain
storage.
      Methane digester or generation when utilized as fuel for agricultural
purposes on the premises.
      Private radio and television receiving antennas and support structures.
      Private stables.
      Seasonal sale of agricultural produce grown on the premises as allowed as
a temporary use in section
8-5B-37 of this article.
      Signs as specified in chapter 4, article C of this title.
      Other necessary and customary uses determined by the zoning administrator
to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to the agricultural use on the
lot.
   B.   Residential Accessory Uses: Residential uses shall include, but not be
limited to, the following accessory uses, activities and structures:
      Fences and walls.
      Garages, carports and off street parking areas, provided that detached
garage or carport shall not cover more lot area than allowed by the applicable
zoning district.
      Gardens.
      Gates and guardhouses.
      Guest household unit, one is allowed, which may include a kitchen
facility that is separate from that of the principal household unit, subject to
the following:
      1.   The guest household unit is used only for the housing of guests of
the family residing in the principal dwelling unit and not as a rental unit;
      2.   When the guest household unit is located within the same building as
the principal dwelling unit the guest household unit should be accessible
through the principal dwelling unit entrance. If a separate exterior entrance
to the guest household unit is provided, it shall face either a side yard or
the rear yard of the principal dwelling unit. For this purpose, an attached
garage is considered part of the principal dwelling unit;
      3.   Maximum allowable living space of a guest household unit shall be
nine hundred (900) square feet.
      Home occupations, subject to section
8-5B-16 of this article.
      Home office.
      Playhouses, patios, cabanas, porches, gazebos and incidental household
storage buildings, provided that such buildings shall not in total cover more
than five percent (5%) of the total lot area.
      Private radio and television receiving antennas and support structures.
      Private stables.
      Recreational and play facilities for residents.
      Signs as specified in chapter 4, article C of this title.
      Storage of recreational equipment such as boats, boat trailers, camping
trailers, converted buses or trucks, provided that storage shall be limited to
private garages, side or rear yards of private homes, and in the driveways of
private homes if located behind the required front yard setback. Outside
storage shall be limited to two (2) pieces of equipment. No recreational
vehicle shall be used for living or sleeping purposes for a period exceeding
thirty (30) days in a calendar year while stored on the premises.
      Storm shelters and fallout shelters.
      Other necessary and customary uses determined by the zoning administrator
to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to the principal use on the lot,
subject to compliance with any development and performance standards imposed by
the zoning administrator to ensure land use compatibility.
   C.   Nonresidential Accessory Uses: Nonresidential uses shall include, but
not be limited to, the following accessory uses, activities and structures:
      Automated teller machine (ATM).
      Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food services when operated
primarily for the convenience of employees, residents, clients, or visitors to
the principal use.
      Dwelling units, other than mobile homes, when used or intended to be used
for security or maintenance personnel.
      Fences and walls.
      Gates and guardhouses.
      Offices for allowed business and industrial uses when the office is
located on the same site as the principal use.
      Parking garages and off street parking areas.
      Parsonages, rectories, parish houses, and housing for others residing on
the premises in conjunction with a church, chapel, temple, synagogue or other
place of religious assembly.
      Playgrounds, play fields, athletic fields, auditoriums, gymnasiums,
swimming pools, heating plants, administration and recreational buildings
including the sale of food and nonalcoholic refreshments, in conjunction with
educational and recreational facilities.
      Recycling collection stations, subject to the provisions of subsection E
of this section.
      Restaurants, newsstands, gift shops, swimming pools, tennis courts, clubs
and lounges when in a permitted hotel, motel or office building.
      Sales of goods produced as a part of allowed industrial activities when
on the same site as the principal industrial use.
      Signs as specified in chapter 4, article C of this title.
      Single-family, accessory dwelling. In the C commercial district, a
single-family dwelling unit may be allowed as an accessory use in the principal
building subject to the following:
      1.   Said dwelling unit is occupied only by the proprietor of the
principal use and his family; or
      2.   One employee of the proprietor which may include the family of the
employee.
      Storage of merchandise when located within the same building as the
principal business.
      Television receiving antennas and support structures.
      Other necessary and customary uses determined by the zoning administrator
to be appropriate, incidental and subordinate to the principal use on the lot,
subject to compliance with any development and performance standard imposed by
the Zoning Administrator to ensure land use compatibility.
   D.   Accessory Use Development And Operational Standards: The following
standards shall apply to all accessory uses and structures unless otherwise
specifically provided:
      1.   Exterior Setback: No accessory structure, other than a fence, shall
be located within a required exterior setback.
      2.   Setbacks From Easements: No accessory structure, other than a fence,
shall be located within any platted or recorded easement unless all parties
with an interest in the easement provide written permission for locating an
accessory structure in the easement. No accessory structure, including fences,
shall be located within a drainage easement. Any fence located within a platted
easement, recorded easement, or over a known utility shall be constructed at
the property owner's risk. Any utility company having to remove or relocate
said fence shall not be required to replace or repair said fence.
      3.   Height: No accessory structure shall exceed the maximum height
standards of the underlying district unless specifically authorized.
      4.   Building Separation: Unless attached to the principal structure,
accessory structures shall be located at least five feet (5') from any other
structure.
      5.   Building Coverage: No accessory structure shall exceed the maximum
coverage allowed by the underlying district unless specifically authorized.
   E.   Recycling Collection Stations: Recycling collection stations shall be
allowed as an accessory use in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Maximum Size And Approval Required: Recycling collection stations
shall be allowed as an accessory use only if it does not exceed one thousand
(1,000) square feet in area and only if shown on a site plan that has been
reviewed and approved in accordance with chapter 2, article E of this title.
      2.   Screening: All collection stations shall be screened from public
view of adjoining properties or any street right-of-way with a six foot (6')
tall, one hundred percent (100%) opaque, solid screen or be wholly contained
within a structure.
      3.   Separation From Residential: Recycling collection station structures
shall be located at least one hundred fifty feet (150') from an R-1 or R-
2 District or residential dwelling.
      4.   Reverse Vending Machines: Reverse vending machines shall be located
or soundproofed such that the noise of operation is imperceptible from any
property line of property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      5.   Maintenance: An employee, business owner or property owner shall be
responsible for keeping the recycling sites in a clean and safe condition and
shall pick up any recycle materials that have blown around the site or adjacent
area. All materials shall be stacked properly within a recycling bin and be
monitored on a frequent basis.
      6.   Hours Of Operation: A sign shall be posted on the recycling
enclosure stating the hours when collection of materials may be conducted.
Collection hours of recyclables shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
      7.   Signs: A sign shall be posted on the recycling enclosure stating the
hours when collection of materials may be conducted. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
   F.   Miscellaneous: Small scale events such as garage sales, auctions and
private, non-commercial events on the sponsor's property such as private
weddings, family reunions and graduation celebrations not intended to be open
to the public and events such as gatherings at any regularly established
permanent place of worship, fairgrounds or any permanent established place of
business when held in conjunction with and at the site of business, when
accessory to the permitted principal use on the property are permitted under
this section. (Ord. 2016-8, 10-11-2016; Ord. O2021-4, 8-10-2021; Ord. O2023-9,
6-13-2023)
8-5B-2: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   Separation From Other Uses: No adult entertainment establishment shall
be permitted within two thousand six hundred fifty feet (2,650') of any
residential zone, residential dwelling, or of any religious assembly, school or
park and recreation use. This separation distance shall be measured as a
straight line, without regard to intervening properties, from the nearest
exterior wall of the adult entertainment establishment to the nearest lot line
of a residential zone, residential dwelling or a lot that contains a religious
assembly, school or park and recreation use.
   B.   Separation From Other Adult Entertainment Establishments: No adult
entertainment establishment shall be allowed to locate or expand within two
thousand six hundred fifty feet (2,650') of any other adult entertainment use
or of any bar or tavern.
   C.   Access: All access to and from the adult entertainment establishment
shall be provided from a thoroughfare street.
   D.   Windows And Doors: The building in which the adult entertainment
establishment is located shall be designed in such a fashion that all openings,
entries and windows prevent views into such establishments from any sidewalk,
walkway, street or other public area. Further, no merchandise or pictures of
products or entertainment on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or
any area where such merchandise or pictures can be viewed from the sidewalk in
front of the building. No adult entertainment activity shall take place outside
the building containing the adult entertainment establishment.
   E.   Signs: Adult entertainment establishments shall be limited to one wall
mounted sign no greater than one square foot of sign per linear foot of wall
length, not to exceed a total of fifty (50) square feet. The sign shall not
flash, blink or move by mechanical means and shall not extend above the
roofline of the building. No flashing lights or lighting that gives the
impression of motion or movement shall be permitted.
   F.   Parking Area Lighting: Lighting of parking areas that serve an adult
entertainment establishment shall provide a minimum light level of twenty five
hundredths (0.25) foot-candle over the entire parking area, but in no point
shall the light level exceed three (3.0) foot-candles, nor shall any increase
in light levels or visible glare be permitted at the lot line. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-
12-2009)
8-5B-3: AIRPORT OR AIRSTRIP:
Airports and airstrips shall comply with all federal and state regulations as
well as other conditions with the granting of a special use. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-
12-2009)
8-5B-4: ASPHALT PLANT:
   A.   Residential Separation: Asphalt plants shall not be located within one
thousand feet (1,000') of an R-1 or R-2 district boundary line or property on
which an existing residential zone or a residential dwelling is located. The
separation distance shall be measured from the nearest property line on which
the asphalt plant is or is intended to be located to the nearest boundary
property line of an R-1 or R-2 district or to the nearest property line of a
residential zone or lot on which an existing residential dwelling is located.
   B.   Access: Access to an asphalt plant shall only be from an arterial or
collector road.
   C.   Accessory Use: Accessory use to a quarry allowed by special use permit
only. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-5: BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS 1 :
Bed and breakfast establishments shall be allowed in the zoning districts as
specified in this chapter upon approval of a special use permit issued in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 2, article D of this title. When
considering a special use permit application for a bed and breakfast
establishment, the following requirements shall apply:
   A.   The establishment shall be located within a one- or two-family dwelling
unit.
   B.   The establishment shall be located on a lot that is a minimum of one
acre in size.
   C.   The yard and floor area requirements shall be as set forth in the R-
1 single-family dwelling district.
   D.   The establishment shall be located in a dwelling unit permanently
occupied by the owner or manager, wherein as an accessory use to the
residential use, rooms are rented to the public for more than ten (10)
consecutive nights in any twelve (12) month period, with the exception of the
agricultural district wherein a bed and breakfast may incorporate the use of
accessory buildings detached from the main house providing such are suitable
for human habitation.
   E.   Breakfast may be provided to guests of the bed and breakfast only.
   F.   Two (2) off street parking spaces plus one additional off street
parking space per lodging room shall be provided. All off street parking spaces
for each lodging room shall be adequately screened from neighboring property.
   G.   No more than five (5) guestrooms may be provided. The county board may,
however, further limit the number of lodging rooms allowed in order to maintain
the character of the neighborhood in which the bed and breakfast facility is
located.
   H.   No signs other than an identification sign as allowed by chapter 4,
article C of this title shall be permitted.
   I.   The establishment shall comply with the requirements of the state fire
marshal for one- and two-family dwellings.
   J.   The operator of the establishment shall obtain certification from the
state fire marshal that the proposed bed and breakfast establishment meets the
requirements of section 6 of the state of Illinois "bed and breakfast act".
   K.   In conjunction with the special use permit application, a floor plan of
the proposed bed and breakfast establishment shall be submitted illustrating
that the proposed establishment will comply with the requirements for bed and
breakfast establishments as set forth by this title.
   L.   The operator shall obtain all required licenses and permits for a bed
and breakfast establishment as required by the Jo Daviess County health
department prior to beginning the operation of the bed and breakfast
establishment. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 7 of this code.
8-5B-6: CAMP, INSTITUTIONAL:
Institutional camps may be allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued
in accordance with chapter 2, article D of this title and the following
provisions:
   A.   The camp is located within a contiguous growth area as designated by
the comprehensive plan for the development of the community of Jo Daviess
County; or
   B.   Is located outside of a contiguous growth area where parcels with a
land evaluation and site assessment score less than two hundred (200). (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-7: CAMP, RECREATIONAL:
Recreational camps may be allowed upon approval of a special use permit issued
in accordance with chapter 2, article D of this title and the following
provisions:
   A.   Any accessory outdoor recreational facilities shall be for use only by
persons camping on the premises.
   B.   Incidental storage of such recreational vehicles shall be permitted
provided such vehicles are not placed on permanent foundations or supports.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-8: CEMETERIES, MAUSOLEUMS OR COLUMBARIUMS:
A fifteen foot (15') wide landscape buffer shall be provided along all property
lines. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-9: CHURCHES, CHAPELS, TEMPLES OR SYNAGOGUES:
   A.   Bus Parking: Any parking area used for the overnight parking of buses
and vehicles shall be located at least one hundred feet (100') from the lot
line of a lot zoned residential or residential dwelling. Any such parking area
shall be screened from view of adjacent residential zone or residential
dwelling districts by a landscape buffer.
   B.   Accessory Dwelling: A property on which a church, chapel, temple or
synagogue is located may also contain an accessory residential dwelling to be
used as a parsonage, rectory or parish house. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-10: COMPETITIVE COMMUNICATION TOWERS:
Shall comply with title 4, chapter 8 of this code as well as all state and
federal regulations. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-11: CONTRACTOR SHOP AND OFFICE:
No outside storage shall be allowed within a commercial district. Temporary use
of land for the installation, maintenance and operation of facilities used by
contractors in the ordinary course of construction activities, except that such
facilities shall be required to be located not less than three hundred feet
(300') from any building used for residential purposes, and except that the
period of such temporary use shall not exceed the duration of the permit. Types
of facilities used by contractors in the ordinary course of construction
activities shall include, but not be limited to, a contractor's office or
equipment sheds and shall be located on the same lot where such construction is
occurring or on a contiguous lot, shall be exempt. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-12: DAYCARE (CENTER, HOME):
   A.   Daycare Center:
      1.   State Licensing: Each daycare center shall be licensed by the
Illinois department of children and family services under the Illinois child
care act of 1969 1 , and shall meet all county and state health department
requirements pertaining to facilities, equipment, and other features.
      2.   Vehicle Drop Off Area: An off street loading zone capable of holding
one car per ten (10) individuals cared for shall be provided, in addition to
the required parking area, in order to provide for the safe pick up and
discharge of passengers.
   B.   Daycare Home: Each daycare home shall be conducted in a single-family
or two-family dwelling unit that is occupied as a permanent residence by the
daycare provider. The use will be considered a home occupation and shall be
subject to the home occupation provisions of this article. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
8-5B-13: GOLF COURSES:
   A.   Location Of Accessory Restaurants And Equipment Shops: Facilities such
as restaurants, bars and equipment shops shall be allowed when an integral part
of a principal clubhouse building, provided there is no exterior display or
advertising for the restaurant or bar.
   B.   Location Of Accessory Recreation Facilities: Buildings, swimming pools,
tennis courts, and similar accessory recreational facilities shall be set back
at least twenty five feet (25') from the property line of any AG, R-1 or R-
2 zoning district.
   C.   Size: An 18-hole golf course shall require a minimum of sixty (60)
acres for each nine (9) holes unless the golf course is a par 3 course in which
case a minimum of twenty five (25) acres shall be required for each nine (9)
holes. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-14: GREENHOUSES AND NURSERIES:
Greenhouses, nurseries and wholesale sales of plant materials and garden crops
shall be subject to the following standards:
   A.   Within the agricultural district, a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of
the plant materials and garden crops that are for sale shall be grown on the
property.
   B.   Greenhouses and nurseries shall not be located within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of an existing residentially zoned district, boundary line, or
residential dwelling.
   C.   Within the conservation district, retail sales are not permitted. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-15: GROUP HOME:
Group homes shall be subject to the following standards:
   A.   Spacing: A group home to be located within an R-1 or R-2 district shall
not be located on a lot that is within six hundred feet (600') of another lot
on which a group home is located.
   B.   Exterior Appearance: There shall be no alteration of the exterior of
the group home that shall change the character thereof as a single-family
residence. There shall be no alteration of the property on which the group home
is located that will change the character thereof as property within a single-
family dwelling district.
   C.   Neighborhood Character: A group home shall be constructed to be
compatible with the architectural character of the neighborhood in which it is
located. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-16: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Home occupations shall be permitted in all districts permitting dwellings
subject to the following provisions and the provisions for accessory uses as
specified in section
8-5B-1 of this article:
   A.   Restrictions And Limitations:
      1.   The home occupation shall be incidental and subordinate to the
principal residential use of the premises.
      2.   No more than four (4) employees who do not reside in the house may
work at the location of the home occupation on any single day. The home
occupation shall not constitute a nuisance taking into account the character of
the surrounding area or neighborhood. The number of employees that never work
at the home occupation location shall not be limited.
      3.   Sales on the site of a home occupation shall be limited to goods
made on the site. Off premises sales, including sales made by telephone, fax or
computer are not prohibited by this title.
      4.   No exterior display of merchandise sold or used in conjunction with
the home occupation shall be allowed.
      5.   Signs shall comply with chapter 4, article C of this title. No sign
shall exceed two feet (2') in any direction, shall not be illuminated and shall
be placed flat against the main wall of the principal residential structure.
      6.   Materials or equipment used in conjunction with a home occupation
shall be wholly enclosed within the dwelling or accessory building.
      7.   No equipment shall be utilized that creates a nuisance such as
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odor, heat, glare, emissions or electrical
interference.
      8.   No alteration of the exterior of the principal residential structure
shall be made which changes the character thereof as a dwelling.
      9.   No traffic shall be generated by the activity of the home occupation
which creates a nuisance taking into account the character of the surrounding
area or neighborhood. This provision shall also include the prohibition of
regular delivery by tractor trailer combination trucks.
      10.   The following are examples of uses that are permitted for
illustrative purposes:
         Art, dancing, and music schools.
         Artists' studios and conservatories.
         Barbershops, beauty shops and tanning salons.
         Catering.
         Chimney sweep.
         Contracting - electrical, carpenter, plumbing, heating, painting.
         Flower arrangement.
         Gardening, landscaping (office).
         Home crafts and hobbies such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary
work, cabinetmaking, etc.
         Housecleaning service.
         Jewelry making, rock polishing.
         Locksmith.
         Offices, general, for example, including, but not limited to, offices
for realtors, insurance agents, brokers, sales representatives, accounting
services, architectural services, consulting services, data processing,
drafting and graphic services, engineering services, financial planning, legal
services, investment services, counseling services, interior design, tax
preparation, typing, word processing services, writing, computer programming
services and manufacturing representatives.
         Pet grooming.
         Security service, security systems, auto security systems.
         Small appliance and electronic repair services.
         Small engine repair (lawn and garden).
         Swimming pool cleaning.
         Tailoring, alterations, and other sewing services.
         Telephone answering, switchboard, call forwarding.
         Tutoring, music lessons, religious instruction.
         Watch, clock, and jewelry repair services.
      11.   Permitted home occupations shall not in any event include the
following:
         Adult entertainment establishments.
         Antiques - retail.
         Automobile and other motor vehicle repair services.
         Grocery sales.
         Heavy equipment rental.
         Kennels.
         Undertaking, mortuary and funeral services.
         Veterinary clinics. (Ord. 2015-7, 11-10-2015)
8-5B-17: LANDFILLS, MINING, AND QUARRYING:
Landfills as defined by the state of Illinois, mining and quarrying operations
shall be subject to the following standards:
   A.   Minimum Surveyed Site Area: A minimum site area of thirty five (35)
acres shall be required for a landfill. A minimum surveyed site area of ten
(10) acres shall be required for mining or quarrying.
   B.   Setback Distances: No digging or excavating shall occur within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of any lot line with a quarry face of no more than
one hundred feet (100'), for future reclamation.
   C.   Groundwater: Groundwater protection at the site by accepted good
construction methods of berming and silt fencing. NPDES permit required.
   D.   Location: Landfill, mines or quarrying of any kind shall not be located
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of a residential dwelling,
except for a residence occupied by the owner, lessees, or operator of the
premises on which the activities take place, or a residence, the owner and
occupant of which have executed written consent for such operations to be
conducted closer than one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') from such
residence.
   E.   Fencing: A fence surrounding the quarry is required.
   F.   Reclamation: Reclamation is required upon discontinuance of use or upon
expiration of the permit. (Removal of less than 300 cubic yards of material per
year for 3 succeeding years constitutes discontinuance of the use.) Upon
reclamation a three to one (3:1) slope is required for the sidewalls, with
cover and seed.
   G.   Bond: Bonding for the reclamation of the quarry to be established at
the time of special use request.
   H.   Fuel Storage: No fuel storage on site.
   I.   Dust Free: All roads, driveways, parking lots and loading and unloading
areas shall be kept in as dust free condition as possible, using application of
dust inhibitors, if necessary so as to limit the nuisance caused by windborne
dust or debris to adjoining lots and public roads. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-18: LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING AND MULCHING FACILITY:
The following standards shall apply to all landscape waste composting
facilities:
   A.   Permission To Construct And Operate: An application for permission to
construct and operate a landscape waste composting facility shall be
accompanied by copies of all valid permits issued and required by the Illinois
environmental protection agency, and all other applicable local, state or
federal agencies.
   B.   Minimum Site Area: All landscape waste composting and mulching
facilities shall be located on a site containing at least five (5) acres.
   C.   Separation Distance:
      1.   The location of the portion of the site where active biological
decomposition of the landscape waste is taking place shall not be located less
than five hundred feet (500') from the following:
         a.   Residential zone or a residential dwelling.
         b.   A lot line of any lot containing a residence;
         c.   A boundary line of an R-1 or R-2 district.
      2.   The location of all operations of such landscape waste composting
facility shall be outside the boundary of any special flood hazard area.
   D.   Setback: The location of the portion of the site where active
biological decomposition of the landscape waste is taking place shall be set
back a minimum of two hundred feet (200') from the property line. In addition,
the facility shall be set back not less than two hundred feet (200') from a
potable water supply.
   E.   Landscape Buffer: Each landscape waste composting facility shall have a
landscape buffer around its perimeter. The county board may require a greater
buffer to protect adjacent property from adverse visual, noise and other
impacts associated with a specific compost facility.
   F.   Traffic Circulation: The operation shall provide an entrance with
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion. No more than
one vehicle entrance shall be allowed for each six hundred sixty feet (660') of
lot frontage on a public street. There shall be enough room on site to
accommodate peak traffic volume and company vehicles. The zoning administrator
may require a traffic report to be submitted with the special use permit
application.
   G.   Storage Bins: Storage bins will be allowed to be stored on site as an
ancillary use, providing they are durable, covered and meet the same setbacks
required for structures on the site. The number of storage bins allowed may be
limited by the county board and shall be screened from view from off site.
   H.   Sale Of Composted Material: The sale or marketing of any composted or
mulched waste material at retail or wholesale from such facility shall be
allowed only when such sale or marketing is accessory and incidental to the
composting and mulching facility.
   I.   Hours Of Operation: The proposed hours of operation shall be submitted
with the special use permit application for the facility. In no case, however,
shall the facility operate before sunrise or after sunset.
   J.   Dust Free Condition: All entrance roads and driveways, parking lots and
loading/unloading areas within one hundred feet (100') of any lot line or
roadway shall be graded and paved with an approved concrete or asphalt/concrete
surface as approved by the zoning administrator so as to limit adjoining lots
and public roads from the nuisance caused by windborne dust and debris. All
roads, driveways, parking lots and loading and unloading areas shall be kept in
as dust free condition as possible, using application of dust inhibitors, if
necessary, so as to limit the nuisance caused by windborne dust or debris to
adjoining lots and public roads.
   K.   Stormwater Management: A stormwater management plan may be required at
the discretion of the zoning administrator.
   L.   Litter Control: Evidence shall be submitted to show that the operation
shall be conducted in such a manner as to prevent the blowing of any waste
materials or dust particulate matter onto adjoining property or roadway.
   M.   Hazardous Material: Operations shall not involve the on site holding,
storage or disposal of hazardous substances, except for such substances used
for the operation of the facility such as fuel and pesticides.
   N.   Material: No food scraps (except for vegetable scraps) or other vermin
attracting materials shall be processed, stored or disposed of on the site of
the compost facility. Only yard/garden wastes are allowed as compost material.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-19: MANUFACTURED HOME/MOBILE HOME:
Manufactured homes and mobile homes shall only be permitted in a manufactured
home park unless said manufactured home is a "manufactured home, residential
design" as defined and allowed herein. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-20: MANUFACTURED HOME, RESIDENTIAL DESIGN:
Standards are those as set forth in the building regulations, title 7, chapter
3 of this code. (Ord. 2012-3, 2-14-2012)
8-5B-21: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
Manufactured home parks shall comply with the following standards:
   A.   Property Development Standards:
      1.   Minimum park area: Ten (10) acres.
      2.   Maximum density: Seven (7) dwelling units per acre.
      3.   Minimum perimeter setbacks: Forty feet (40').
   B.   Streets: Private streets shall be permitted within manufactured home
parks, provided that they comply with the design standards of the Jo Daviess
County land subdivision ordinance. Street signs shall comply with all
applicable county standards.
   C.   Parking: A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces shall be
provided for each dwelling unit within the manufactured home park. At least one
of the two (2) required spaces shall be an off street parking space located on
each manufactured home unit space. All off street parking areas shall be paved
in accordance with county standards.
   D.   Recreation And Open Space: At least three hundred (300) square feet of
common recreation and open space shall be provided per manufactured home/
manufactured housing site in the manufactured home park. Such recreation and
open space area shall be located no farther than five hundred feet (500') from
any manufactured home site served. Streets, sidewalks, parking areas and
accessory buildings are not to be included as recreation space in computing the
necessary area.
   E.   Walkways: Walkways shall be required on one side of all interior
streets and accessways and shall provide connections between manufactured home
units and common areas such as recreational areas and laundry facilities.
Walkways shall not be less than four feet (4') in width.
   F.   Water Supply: All manufactured home parks shall be connected to a water
supply system as approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   G.   Sewage Disposal: All manufactured home parks shall be connected to a
sewer system as approved by the Illinois environmental protection agency or the
Jo Daviess County health department.
   H.   Storm Drainage Facilities: Storm drainage facilities shall be so
constructed as to protect those who will reside in the manufactured home park,
as well as the property owners adjacent to the manufactured home park. Such
facilities shall be of such capacity to ensure rapid drainage and prevent the
accumulation of stagnant pools of water in or adjacent to the park and shall
comply with all applicable county standards. A stormwater management plan shall
be filed with the application.
   I.   Underground Utilities: All electric, telephone, and other lines from
supply poles outside the park or other sources to each manufactured home site
shall be underground.
   J.   Fire Protection: Manufactured home parks shall be equipped at all times
with fire extinguishing equipment in good working order of such type, size, and
number and so located within the park to satisfy regulations of the state fire
marshal.
   K.   Flammable Liquid Storage: The use of individual fuel oil or propane gas
storage tanks to supply each manufactured home separately shall be prohibited.
Any fuel oil or gas storage shall be centrally located in underground tanks, at
a safe distance from any manufactured home site. All fuel lines leading to the
park and to manufactured home sites shall be underground and so designed as to
conform with any state code that is applicable. When separate meters are
installed each shall be located in a uniform manner.
   L.   Solid Waste: All garbage and trash containers shall be placed in a
conveniently located enclosed structure the exterior of which is similar in
appearance to the manufactured home it serves. The removal of trash shall take
place not less than once a week. Individual or common incinerators shall be
prohibited.
   M.   Landscaping: A landscape buffer as approved by the county board shall
be provided and maintained along all boundaries of a manufactured home park
except at established entrances and exits.
   N.   Manufactured Home Spaces Within Manufactured Home Parks: Manufactured
home spaces within manufactured home parks shall comply with the standards of
this section.
      1.   Minimum Size Of Manufactured Home Space: Each manufactured home
space within a manufactured home park shall contain at least three thousand
(3,000) square feet of site area, and be at least forty feet (40') in width.
      2.   Access: Each space shall have access to a paved interior roadway. In
no case shall access to manufactured home spaces be provided from abutting
property.
      3.   Separation/Clearance: Each space shall be located so that at least
ten feet (10') of separation clearance will be maintained between manufactured
home units and other structures in the park.
      4.   Canopies And Awnings: Canopies and awnings may be attached to any
manufactured home and may be enclosed and used for recreation or sunroom
purposes. When enclosed for living purposes, such shall be considered as part
of the manufactured home.
      5.   Utility Hookup: Each manufactured home space shall have hookup
facilities for water, sewer, electricity, and telephone. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-5B-22: MARINA:
   A.   Marinas and boat landing facilities may include the following accessory
uses:
      Boat fuel sales.
      Boat rental.
      Boat sales.
      Boat storage and repair.
      Sales and service of marine motors, boat parts and accessories.
   B.   Incidental sales of food and prepackaged beverages may be allowed as an
accessory use to a marina upon approval of a special use permit specifically
allowing such incidental sales.
   C.   Marinas shall be located on lots having not less than one hundred feet
(100') of frontage on a waterway used for the general public for boating
activities.
   D.   Parking areas shall comply with the requirements of chapter 4, article
D of this title.
   E.   Sanitation facilities shall be as required by the Jo Daviess County
health department. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-23: MULTI-FAMILY:
Multi-family development shall be subject to the following guidelines and
standards as part of the site plan review of each development:
   A.   Natural Features And Environment: Each site should be designed to
preserve natural features and environmental resources, such as:
      1.   Floodplains and drainageways.
      2.   Bodies of water.
      3.   Prominent ridges.
      4.   Existing tree cover including tree masses, wind rows and significant
individual trees.
   B.   Cut And Fill: Excessive cut and fill are unacceptable. The development
should preserve the natural topography of the site.
   C.   Pedestrian Circulation: Pedestrian circulation systems (sidewalks,
walkways, and paths) shall be located and designed to provide physical
separation from vehicles along all public and private streets and within any
parking area. Pedestrian access should be designed to provide reasonable
linkages of dwelling units to other facilities within the development such as
recreation, services, mail and parking.
   D.   Building Separation: All buildings shall be separated by a minimum
distance of twenty feet (20').
   E.   Lot Coverage: Each development should be designed to reflect unique
site characteristics and build strong neighborhood environments without
overcrowding the site.
   F.   Net Living Area: A minimum net living area for each dwelling unit
(exclusive of basements, open porches, terraces, patios, garages, carports, and
facilities such as heating, cooling and laundry serving more than 1 dwelling
unit) shall be as follows:
      1.   Three hundred seventy five (375) square feet for efficiency units;
      2.   Five hundred (500) square feet for one bedroom units;
      3.   Seven hundred fifty (750) square feet for two (2) bedroom units;
      4.   Eight hundred fifty (850) square feet for three (3) bedroom units;
and
      5.   Nine hundred fifty (950) square feet for a unit with four (4) or
more bedrooms.
   G.   Access: Whenever possible, local streets shall provide the vehicular
access for all multi-family residential developments.
   H.   Open Space: Open space should be provided to meet active and passive
use requirements of the neighborhood.
      1.   At least ten percent (10%) of the total site area shall be set aside
as common open space. The common open space area shall be suitable for active
or passive recreational use. Common open space areas should be centrally placed
within the neighborhood. Common open space may include pools, tennis courts,
and tot lots. Common open space may not be counted as part of nor located in a
required setback area.
      2.   A minimum of sixty (60) square feet of private open space shall be
provided for each dwelling unit. Private areas should be accessible from each
applicable dwelling unit and should be designed to prevent access from other
areas so as to ensure privacy. Private areas typically include yards, balconies
and patios adjoining each dwelling unit.
   I.   Building Clustering: Unusable and unassigned open space surrounding
buildings should be reduced by clustering buildings. Buildings should be
clustered around a central common area, and not have the primary orientation
directed toward the parking area.
   J.   Building Orientation:
      1.   Individual Buildings: Individual buildings should be oriented in a
way that establishes neighborhoods and subneighborhoods.
      2.   Reduction Of Unusable Open Space: Unusable open space should be
reduced through building orientation, the use of low walls, fencing,
landscaping and entry design.
   K.   Vehicular Circulation And Parking:
      1.   Street Layout: The layout of streets should provide for safe
operation of vehicles within the development.
      2.   Parking Area Layout: Double loaded parking areas along private
streets are generally not acceptable. Parking areas should be located along
drives that intersect public or private streets.
      3.   Parking Enclosures: Parking enclosures should be designed and sited
so as to complement the primary structures and to provide visual relief from
extensive pavement area. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-24: OIL AND GAS DRILLING/REFINING:
Oil and gas drilling/refining operations shall be subject to the following
standards:
   A.   Oil and gas drilling/refining operations shall not be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of a boundary line of a residential district or any
residential dwelling.
   B.   The distillation of ethyl alcohol (ethanol) from agricultural crops and
the processing of byproducts from such distillation when such alcohol is not
utilized as fuel for agricultural purposes on the premises shall be allowed as
a permitted use in the manufacturing and industrial districts and as a special
use, issued in accordance with the provisions of chapter 2, article D of this
title, in the agricultural and commercial districts. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-25: PAINTBALL ESTABLISHMENTS:
The following requirements shall apply to paintball establishments:
   A.   Operator is required to maintain membership in the American Paintball
League (or similar reputable national organization) and enforce their operating
rules.
   B.   Warning signage shall be placed every one hundred feet (100') along the
property lines and be visible from a distance of fifty feet (50').
   C.   A clearly marked buffer of fifty feet (50') adjacent to any street or
public way and of thirty feet (30') along any other lot line shall be provided
in which no paintball games may take place.
   D.   Parking shall be in designated areas only.
   E.   No games shall be played before sunrise or after sunset.
   F.   A copy of the current liability policy of not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death shall be maintained in the
department of building and zoning.
   G.   A permit from Jo Daviess County health department for food service
shall be provided and sanitation facilities shall be provided.
   H.   A site plan drawn to scale shall be provided showing property lines,
parking areas, buffers and other improvements. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-26: RACETRACKS:
The following requirements shall apply to racetracks:
   A.   Access to racetracks shall be provided by a paved roadway that is
classified as an arterial roadway.
   B.   Racetracks for the racing of animals shall be located at least one mile
from any residential district or residential dwelling.
   C.   Racetracks for the racing of motor vehicles shall be located at least
two (2) miles from any residential district or residential dwelling. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-27: RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR:
Outdoor recreation and entertainment uses shall be located on arterial or
collector roads. Public activity areas shall be located at least six hundred
sixty feet (660') from any adjacent residential district or residential
dwelling. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-28: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
Recreational vehicle parks shall be permitted subject to the following
conditions:
   A.   The site selected for recreational vehicle parks shall be well drained
and designed to provide space for recreational vehicles that are intended for
short term occupancy. Recreational vehicles may have a permanent placement
within said park as long as said recreational vehicle has not been built onto
and the owner of said recreational vehicle has a bona fide residence at a
different location. Location of the recreational vehicle park may not front on
a major roadway or thoroughfare, but shall be directly accessible to the major
roadway by means of a private road or public road on which it has frontage.
   B.   Minimum tract size shall be two (2) acres and shall be one owner.
   C.   The maximum number of recreational vehicle spaces allowed shall not be
more than twenty (20) per acre. Consideration shall be given to whether the
recreational vehicle park and the density level are designed accordingly. The
densities of overnight use may be higher than destination type since it
primarily serves as a short stopping point while the destination type
recreational vehicle park provides for longer and extended stays of several
days or weeks.
   D.   Minimum width of a recreational vehicle space shall be twenty five feet
(25'). The space shall be so designed to provide space for parking both a
travel trailer and towing vehicle off the roadway. No travel trailer unit shall
be closer than twelve feet (12') to any other adjacent unit, structure or
roadway, and all spaces shall have direct access to the roadway. No unit shall
be placed closer than thirty feet (30') to any of the development property
lines, and the ten feet (10') nearest the property line shall be permanently
maintained as a sodded and/or landscaped area.
   E.   Mobile homes and manufactured homes shall not be allowed.
   F.   A central office or convenience establishment with an attendant shall
be provided within the recreational vehicle park to register guests and provide
service and supervision to the camp. An accessory residence shall be allowed
for occupancy by the owner or operator of the facility.
   G.   The applicant for a recreational vehicle park shall submit a site plan
in accordance with the provisions of chapter 2, article D of this title to the
zoning board of appeals for their review and recommendation. In addition to the
requirements of chapter 2, article D of this title, the site plan shall contain
the information required below and any other information the county board shall
deem reasonably necessary to fully evaluate the proposed development:
      1.   General layout of development with dimensions, depths, number of
spaces and related sanitation accommodations.
      2.   Parking area location, sizes and capacity.
      3.   Ingress and egress points for the project.
      4.   Use of structures.
      5.   General layout of typical recreational vehicle space showing size of
space and proposed improvements.
      6.   Layout of roadway within the camp.
      7.   Net density of proposed project, expressed in terms of units per
acre.
      8.   General landscaping plan indicating all new and retained plant
material to be incorporated within the new development and layout of outdoor
lighting system.
      9.   Plan and method of sewage disposal and water supply.
      10.   Location plan and number of proposed sanitary conveniences,
including proposed toilets, washrooms, laundries and utility areas. In
addition, proof of state license for operation of the sewer and water supply.
      11.   The development shall provide a general refuse storage area or
areas which shall be provided with a paved concrete surface and shall be
enclosed to screen it from view.
   H.   The recreational vehicle parks shall be planned and constructed in
accordance with the minimum standards established in this section and outlined
below:
      1.   All parking areas and roadways shall be constructed and paved with a
hard surface bituminous or concrete material or at least eight inches (8") of
crushed aggregate material.
      2.   All camps shall be provided with general outdoor lighting with a
minimum of three-tenths (0.3) foot-candle of general illumination.
      3.   At least ten percent (10%) of the park area shall be yard area or
open space. All yard areas and other open spaces not otherwise paved or
occupied by structures shall be sodded and/or landscaped and shall be
maintained. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-29: SALVAGE YARD:
The following standards shall apply to salvage yards, scrap and waste material
storage yards, auto wrecking and junk yards:
   A.   Separation From Residential: No salvage yard shall be located within
five hundred feet (500') of a residential district or a residential dwelling.
   B.   Screening: The operation shall be conducted wholly within a
noncombustible building or within an area surrounded on all sides by a solid
fence or wall at least twelve feet (12') in height. The fence or wall shall be
of uniform height, uniform texture and color, and shall be so maintained by the
proprietor as to ensure maximum safety to the public, obscure the junk from
normal view of the public, and preserve the general welfare of the
neighborhood. The fence or wall shall be installed in a way that retains all
scrap, junk, or other materials within the yard. Scrap, junk or other salvaged
materials shall be piled or stored so that they are not visible from outside
the fenced in area and do not exceed the height of the enclosing fence or wall
within fifty feet (50') of the inside of such fence or wall.
   C.   Loading/Unloading: No junk shall be loaded, unloaded, or otherwise
placed either temporarily or permanently outside the enclosed building, fence,
or wall, or within the public right of way.
   D.   County, State And Federal Standards: All operations shall obtain all
necessary licenses and permits from all county, state, and federal agencies
that regulate such facilities, equipment and other features. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-
12-2009)
8-5B-30: SCHOOLS:
Schools (elementary, middle, high), colleges or universities, and vocational
schools shall comply with the following:
   A.   Approval by the Illinois capital development board if required by state
law;
   B.   Upon issuance of a special use permit issued in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 2, article D of this title, a group residential use may
be allowed in conjunction with a school for the residency of students, faculty
and other staff of the school. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-31: SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING:
Developments consisting of single-family attached dwellings shall be subject to
the following standards:
   A.   Lot Width: Each single-family attached dwelling shall be located on an
individual lot having a minimum width of one hundred fifty feet (150').
   B.   Lot Area: Each lot on which a single-family attached dwelling is
located shall not be less than twenty two thousand five hundred (22,500) square
feet in area.
   C.   Building Coverage: Single-family attached dwelling shall be exempt from
the building coverage standards of the R-2 district.
   D.   Setbacks: No interior side setback shall be required on the "attached"
side of a lot containing a single-family attached dwelling unit. The interior
setback standards of the R-2 district shall only apply to "end" units in a
single-family attached development. End units are those that are attached to
other dwelling units on only one side. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-32: SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED AGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE:
A single-family, detached agricultural residence shall only be allowed in
conjunction with an agricultural operation. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-33: SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED NONAGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE:
   A.   A single-family, detached nonagricultural residence in the AG
agricultural district that is permitted as a special use shall be subject to
the following standards and regulations:
      1.   A site plan which provides the following information shall be
provided:
         a.   The existing and proposed topography, slope, and drainage
patterns of the lot.
         b.   The erosion control measures that will be used during and after
construction.
         c.   The grade of the driveway which shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) at any one point.
         d.   The area to be cleared if the lot is wooded.
      2.   Jo Daviess County uses a land evaluation and site assessment (LESA)
system to help local officials determine if farmland may be converted to other
uses. This tool has a maximum of three hundred (300) points. A score of two
hundred (200) points or more would indicate that land is important to retain
for agricultural purposes. A score of less than two hundred (200) points would
indicate the site may be suitable for nonagricultural uses.
      3.   On site wastewater facilities shall conform to all Illinois statutes
and those established by the Jo Daviess County health department.
      4.   Identification of an appropriate septic area as provided by the
natural resources inventory (NRI) reports.
      5.   Lot configuration (see section
8-5B-48 of this article).
      6.   All lighting shall conform to section
8-4E-3, "Outdoor Lighting Standards", of this title.
      7.   The most sensitive areas for development in Jo Daviess County are
underlain by Silurian geological formations. These elevated ridge tops and
hillsides are scenic, prone to excessive erosion and often provide the least
amount of ground water protection. These areas are mapped and are presented as
part of the natural resources inventory (NRI) report for every requested change
in zoning for Jo Daviess County. Development located in these areas will be
subject to the following additional standards:
         a.   Buildings and roads located on sloping sites shall be built to
blend with the existing topography.
         b.   Exterior building colors are encouraged to blend with the natural
background.
         c.   Yard areas shall not be clear cut, existing trees shall be
protected whenever possible, clearing of trees to create a building site should
be as minimal as possible and the continuity of wooded sites shall be
preserved. If trees must be removed in the construction process, they should be
replaced with trees of species similar to those in surrounding woodlands.
         d.   In no case shall the roofline of any structure be higher than the
existing mature tree height or ridge top.
         e.   Additional erosion control will be required on highly erosive
sites.
         f.   The impervious surface coverage of the lot, which includes the
building footprint, paved roads and compacted gravel surfaces, etc. This area
shall not exceed one-half (1/2) acre.
   B.   A single-family, detached nonagricultural residence when allowed as a
permitted use in the R-1, R-2, RP and AG districts shall be subject to the
following standards:
      1.   A site plan which provides the following information shall be
provided:
         a.   The existing and proposed topography, slope, and drainage
patterns of the lot.
         b.   The erosion control measures used during and after construction
will be identified.
         c.   The area to be cleared if the lot is wooded.
      2.   On site wastewater facilities shall conform to all Illinois statutes
and those established by the Jo Daviess County health department.
      3.   All lighting shall conform to section
8-4E-3, "Outdoor Lighting Standards", of this title.
      4.   Buildings and roads located on sloping sites shall be built to blend
with the existing topography.
      5.   Exterior building colors are encouraged to blend with the natural
background.
      6.   Yard areas shall not be clear cut, existing trees shall be protected
whenever possible, clearing of trees to create a building site should be as
minimal as possible and the continuity of wooded sites shall be preserved. If
trees must be removed in the construction process, they should be replaced with
trees of species similar to those in surrounding woodlands.
      7.   Additional erosion control will be required on highly erosive sites.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-34: SINGLE-FAMILY, UNDERGROUND RESIDENCE:
Single-family dwellings constructed belowground shall conform to the following
standards:
   A.   Shall have a minimum of eight hundred (800) square feet of floor area.
   B.   Shall have sufficient earth cover over the underground portion to
support vegetation.
   C.   At least twenty percent (20%) of the total length of the perimeter wall
surrounding the living area entirely exposed above ground level, with doors
leading from at least two (2) separate rooms through such exposed wall.
   D.   In addition to the information specified in chapter 2, article D of
this title to be submitted with the special use permit application, the
following information shall also be submitted:
      1.   Building plans sealed by a registered architect for the underground
single-family dwelling.
      2.   Sewage disposal plans approved by the Jo Daviess County health
department.
      3.   Final grading plan.
      4.   Soil information and water table information for the site. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-35: SINGLE-FAMILY, ZERO LOT LINE DWELLING:
Zero lot line single-family dwellings shall conform with the following
standards:
   A.   The procedure for establishing a zero lot line single-family
development shall be the same as set out for site plan approval in chapter 2,
article D of this title.
   B.   The intensity of use, bulk of buildings, concentration of population,
amount of open space, light and air, shall be the same as established for
single-family dwellings in the R-2 district.
   C.   The intensity of the residential dwelling units shall be the same as
established for single-family dwellings in the R-2 district.
   D.   The developer shall establish a property owners' association or other
entity for the maintenance of common open space areas within the development.
The county board may require assurance of the financial and administrative
ability of any organization created by the developer for the purpose of
maintaining common open space areas and facilities of a nonpublic nature.
   E.   There shall be sufficient water pressure to ensure that adequate fire
protection is provided.
   F.   The county board may, in the process of approving preliminary and final
plans, approve the following deviations from the requirements of the R-
2 district:
      1.   Setbacks of buildings and paved areas from a public street may be
reduced to fifty percent (50%) of the standard requirement.
      2.   Setbacks of buildings from a property line other than a public
street may be reduced to sixty percent (60%) of the standard requirement and
setbacks of paved areas adjacent to property lines, other than street lines,
may be reduced to zero if existing or proposed development on said adjacent
land justifies the same.
      3.   Side yards between buildings may be reduced to zero.
      4.   The foregoing deviations in subsections F1 through F3 of this
section may be granted by the county board only when compensating open space is
provided elsewhere in the project, where there is ample evidence that said
deviation will not adversely affect neighboring property nor will it constitute
the mere granting of privilege.
   G.   The design of all zero lot line single-family projects shall assure
proper access and circulation in accordance with the design standards
established in the Jo Daviess County land subdivision ordinance. (Ord. 2009-3,
5-12-2009)
8-5B-36: SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION:
The following standards shall apply to solid waste collection/processing
facilities:
   A.   Traffic Circulation: The operation shall provide entrances on arterial
or collector streets only with ingress and egress so designed as to minimize
traffic congestion. There shall be enough room on site to accommodate peak
traffic volume and company vehicles. A traffic analysis may be required.
   B.   Storage Bins: Storage bins or trailers will be allowed to be stored on
site as an ancillary use, providing they are durable, covered and meet the same
setbacks required for the structure on the site. The bins shall be screened as
part of the operation.
   C.   Loading/Unloading: No solid waste or junk shall be loaded, unloaded or
otherwise placed either temporarily or permanently outside an enclosed
building, fence or screened area or within the public right of way, except the
use of storage bins placed on the outside of an enclosed building for
recycling. The operation shall be attended on days of operation to maintain the
property in a clean, litter free condition.
   D.   Separation For Residential: No structure shall be located within three
hundred feet (300') of a residential zone or a residential dwelling.
   E.   Hours Of Operation: Uses shall not operate before sunrise or after
sunset if located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a residential zone or a
residential dwelling. Hours shall be established as part of the special use.
   F.   Paving: All roads, driveways, parking lots and loading/unloading areas
shall be graded and paved with an approved concrete or asphalt/concrete
surface.
   G.   Stormwater Management: A stormwater management plan may be required at
the discretion of the zoning administrator.
   H.   Other Regulations: All operations shall be licensed if required, have
proper permits from the Illinois environmental protection agency and shall meet
all county, state and federal health department requirements pertaining to
facilities, equipment and other features. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-37: TEMPORARY USES:
The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a permit for a temporary use
provided it meets the requirements of this section. The permit shall be issued
for a specified period of time and may contain health, safety and traffic
restrictions, and may require such assurances or guarantees of compliance with
conditions as is reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances.
   A.   Type 1 Temporary Uses:
      1.   The following temporary uses shall be allowed:
Seasonal sale of agricultural produce including, but not limited to, farmers'
markets.
   B.   Type 2 Temporary Uses:
      1.   Uses Allowed By Permit Only: The following uses shall be allowed by
temporary use permit only:
      Commercial sales events/activities, not conducted in an enclosed building
or on the premises of a regular place of business. The total duration of event/
activity shall not exceed fourteen (14) weeks.
      WECS test towers subject to the following:
         a.   All test towers shall be eighty meters (80 m) or less in height.
         b.   All test towers shall be set back from public roads, third party
transmission lines, communication towers and primary structures a distance of
1.1 times the test tower height.
         c.   All test towers shall be set back a distance of one and one-tenth
(1.1) times the tower height from adjacent property lines.
         d.   At the expiration of the temporary use permit, the test tower
must be taken down and the area reclaimed if necessary.
         e.   Temporary permit for a test tower may only be issued for no
longer than a three (3) year time period.
         f.   The provisions of items b and c of this use shall not apply to
test towers if the applicant submits with the application for this temporary
use, a statement wherein the applicant indicates what the actual setbacks will
be from structures and property lines and such statement shall be duly
acknowledged before a notary public by the applicant, owner and lessee (if
applicable) of the primary structure referred to in item b of this use and the
owner of the adjacent property referred to in item c of this use indicating
that said owner(s) of the structure or property has no objections to the
applicant having test towers located in the location set forth in the
statement.
         g.   WECS test towers that do not meet the above requirements may
apply for a special use permit in accordance with chapter 2, article D of this
title.
      2.   Application And Review Procedures:
         a.   Approval Of Type 2 And Type 3 Temporary Uses By The Zoning
Administrator: The Zoning Administrator may approve Type 2 and Type 3 temporary
use permits after determining that the use will comply with all of the
standards of this subsection.
            (1)   Contents Of All Applications: An application for a temporary
use permit shall be made to the Zoning Administrator on a form available from
the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by:
               (A)   Site Plan: A site plan or map showing the location of the
structures, improvements, parking areas and other features that exist or are
proposed on the site.
               (B)   Owner Authorization: When the applicant for a special
event is not the owner of the property on which the event will occur, the
applicant must submit proof of the owner's authorization which shall be in
writing, dated, signed by the owner and contain sufficient information so as to
identify the property and the proposed special event.
               (C)   Fee: A fee as established by the County Board.
            (2)   Review And Approval Process: A complete application shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least thirty (30) days prior to the
requested start, with the exception of amusement events/festivals requiring at
least sixty (60) days prior to the requested start date. The Zoning
Administrator shall submit copies of the application to the Jo Daviess County
Environmental Health Department, Sheriff Department, County Highway Department
and emergency responders for review. The Zoning Administrator shall make a
determination whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the permit
within twenty (20) working days after the date of application. Any applicant
denied a permit by the Zoning Administrator shall be notified in writing, of
the reasons for the denial and of the opportunity to appeal the denial to the
Zoning Board of Appeals at their next regularly scheduled meeting.
      3.   Requirements: The following provisions shall apply to all Type 2 and
Type 3 temporary uses:
         a.   Land Use Compatibility: The special event must be compatible with
the purpose and intent of this section and the zoning district in which it will
be located. The special event shall not impair the normal, safe and effective
operation of a permanent use on the same site. The special event shall not
endanger or be materially detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare
or injurious to property or improvements in the immediate vicinity of the
special event, given the nature of the activity, its location on the site and
its relationship to parking and access points.
         b.   Traffic Circulation: The special event, as determined by the
County Engineer, shall not cause undue traffic congestion or accident potential
given anticipated attendance and the design of adjacent streets, intersections
and traffic controls. The special event application shall be reviewed and
agreed to by all affected road authorities, and by the Sheriff's Department for
public safety.
         c.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be provided in a
manner as determined by the Zoning Administrator to meet the needs of the
requested special event.
         d.   Setback From Road Right-Of-Way: Temporary structures and
equipment used in conjunction with a special event need not comply with the
setback requirements of the applicable district in which the special event is
located unless otherwise required by the Zoning Administrator for public safety
reasons. However, structures or equipment shall not block the view of operators
of motor vehicles on the public streets and shall conform to the requirements
of the sight triangle as specified in section
8-4A-6, "Sight Triangle", of this title.
         e.   Public Convenience And Litter Control: Adequate portable
sanitation stations, potable water and on site solid waste containers shall be
provided.
         f.   Staffing: Event staff shall be provided by the applicant to
provide for traffic coordination to protect the public health and safety.
         g.   Food Regulations: If food will be served to the public or
available for public purchase, food vendors must comply with Jo Daviess County
Health Department food service regulations.
         h.   Serving Alcohol: If alcohol will be served to the public or
available for public purchase and consumption, all applicable licenses and
permits shall be procured through the local/State and Federal agencies.
         i.   Hours Of Operation: All amusement events/activities shall begin
activities after nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and shall cease activities by twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight.
         j.   Right To Close: It shall be the responsibility of the applicant
to see that the area used for the event is maintained in a condition that
provides for the public health, safety, and welfare for event attendees and
neighbors alike. In the event that authorized personnel from the Jo Daviess
County Sheriff's Office determine that the activity is a threat to the public
health, safety, and welfare, the Jo Daviess County Sheriff's Office shall have
the right to close the event to ensure the health, safety, or general welfare
of attendees or neighbors.
         k.   Other Conditions: The Zoning Administrator may establish any
additional conditions deemed necessary to ensure land use compatibility and to
minimize potential adverse impacts on nearby uses. The Zoning Administrator may
refuse to issue a permit if the event is too large to be safe for the site,
neighborhood, roadway or other infrastructure. In the event that authorized
personnel from the Jo Daviess County Sheriff's Office determine that the
activity is a threat to the public health, safety and welfare, the Sheriff's
Office shall have the right to close the event to ensure the health, safety or
general welfare of attendees or neighbors.
         l.   Site Cleared: The site shall be cleared of all event debris
within twenty four (24) hours of the end of the activity and cleared of all
temporary structures within seven (7) days after closing the activity.
   C.   Type 3 Temporary Uses:
      1.   The following uses shall be allowed by temporary use permit only:
         Agricultural themed public events:
         a.   Application and review process stated in subsections B2 and B3 of
this section is applicable to all Type 3 temporary uses.
         Amusement events/festivals: A temporary use permit is required for
amusement events/festivals when one (1) or more of the following are triggered:
         a.   The event will have alcohol either served or brought on premises
and have an anticipated attendance of five hundred (500) people or more.
         b.   The event is scheduled for more than one (1) calendar day.
         c.   The event will have an anticipated attendance of five hundred
(500) people or more.
      The purpose and intent of this subsection is to allow short term use of
land, that are not otherwise permitted in the use table of this chapter, for
special amusement events/festivals, when not conducted on premises and
associated with a permitted business, while protecting nearby property owners,
residents and businesses from activities that may be disruptive, obnoxious or
otherwise incompatible. No more than two (2) events in any calendar year with
regard to any particular property and shall not last longer than four (4)
consecutive days with the exception of a haunted house/barn/forest or similar
seasonal activity, which shall not last longer than a specific period of time
not exceeding sixty (60) days.
         Events/festivals may be held either in an enclosed existing structure,
not to exceed occupancy load as established in the adopted International
Residential/Building Code, or in an open area with or without temporary tent
structures.
         Garage sales, auctions and private, non-commercial events on the
sponsor's property such as private weddings, family reunions and graduation
celebrations not intended to be open to the public are not considered
activities intended for public amusement. Events/festivals do not include
gatherings at any regularly established permanent place of worship, fairgrounds
or any permanent established place of business when held in conjunction with
and at the site of business.
   D.   Type 4 Temporary Uses:
      1.   In the event of a fire or natural disaster which results in the
partial or total demolition of a residence, making it unfit for human
habitation, the Zoning Administrator may, upon application from the owner of
such residence, issue a temporary emergency shelter permit for the use of a
mobile home or recreational vehicle for use during rehabilitation of the
original residence or construction of a new residence. The temporary emergency
shelter permit shall be limited to a period of twelve (12) months. Upon
expiration of the twelve (12) month period, an application may be presented to
the Zoning Board of Appeals requesting an extension of up to six (6) months.
Extension application must show necessary cause of the requested extension. The
Zoning Board of Appeals may grant the extension for no longer than six (6)
months.
      All applications for a permit shall be accompanied by an affidavit,
stating as follows:
         a.   Name(s) and address(es) of occupants.
         b.   Site plan showing location of proposed use.
         c.   Description (make, model and year) of mobile home or recreational
vehicle.
         d.   Reason for application.
         e.   Statement that a change in the usage, name or number of
occupants, or location will be reported to the Zoning Administrator
immediately.
         f.   Sign off from the Environmental Health Department concerning
septic and well.
      Type 4 temporary use structure may be placed no closer than five feet
(5') to a side and rear property line and maintain a setback of fifty three
feet (53') from the centerline of the roadway or twenty feet (20') from the
right-of-way line, whichever is greater.
      Failure to comply with any of the above or any additional conditions
placed on a permit by the Zoning Administrator shall be sufficient for the
permit to be revoked.
      The mobile home or recreational vehicle shall be removed by the permit
holder on or before the date of the expiration of the permit. Failure to do so
may result in a fine as established in sections
8-2G-1 and
8-2G-2 of this title. (Ord. 2016-8, 10-11-2016)
8-5B-38: TRANSITIONAL LIVING CENTER:
Transitional living centers shall be subject to the following standards:
   A.   Size: No more than ten (10) persons, including staff, shall reside in
the center at one time.
   B.   Separation: No transitional living center shall be located within one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any other transitional living center or
substance abuse treatment facility, nor shall a transitional living center be
located within three hundred feet (300') of any religious assembly, school, or
residential dwelling. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-39: UTILITY, MAJOR:
Major utilities shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   The facility shall not be located within two hundred feet (200') of a
boundary line of an R-1 or R-2 District or residential dwelling.
   B.   No building or tower that is part of a wind power generation facility
shall encroach onto any recorded easement prohibiting the encroachment unless
the grantees of the easement have given their approval.
   C.   Lighting shall be installed for security and safety purposes only.
Except with respect to lighting required by the FCC or FAA all lighting shall
be red, and all lighting shall be shielded so that no glare extends
substantially beyond the boundaries of a facility.
   D.   No facility shall encroach onto an existing septic field.
   E.   The height of the facility shall not exceed four hundred fifty feet
(450'), except if the facility is located within one and one-half (11/2) miles
of the corporate limits of a municipality with a population of twenty five
thousand (25,000) or more, the height of the facility shall not exceed two
hundred feet (200').
   F.   Documentation, approved by the Zoning Administrator, shall be provided
which verifies that the site and design are acceptable to the FAA. (Ord. 2009-
3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-40: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION (WECSs) FACILITY, COMMERCIAL:
   A.   Applicability: This section governs the siting of wind energy
conversion facilities (WECS) and substations that generate electricity to be
sold to wholesale or retail markets.
   B.   Owners of WECS with an aggregate generating capacity of five hundred
(500) kilowatts in total nameplate generating capacity or less who locate the
WECS(s) on their own property are not subject to these standards.
   C.   Prohibition: No WECS Project, WECS, or substation governed by this
section shall be constructed, erected, installed, or located within Jo Daviess
County, unless prior siting approval has been obtained for each individual WECS
Project, WECS, and substation facility or for a group of WECS Projects and
substations under a joint siting application pursuant to this title.
   D.   Procedure:
      1.   Submittal Requirements:
         a.   To obtain a special use permit, the applicant must first submit
an application to the county.
         b.    In addition to the application requirements stated in chapter 2,
article D of this title the application shall contain or be accompanied by the
following information:
         (1)   A WECS Project Summary, including, to the extent available: (a)
a general description of the project, including its approximate nameplate
generating capacity; the potential equipment manufacturer(s), type(s) of WECS
(s), number of WECSs, and nameplate generating capacity of each WECS; the
maximum height of the WECS tower(s) and maximum diameter of the WECS(s) rotor
(s); the general location of the project; the number of substations, a project
site plan, project phasing plan and project construction timeline plan, and the
general location of the project and b) a description of the applicant, owner
and operator, including their respective business structures;
         (2)   The name(s), address(es), and phone number(s) of the Applicant
(s), Owner and Operator, and all property owner(s), if known; and documentation
demonstrating land ownership or legal control of the property;
         (3)   A site plan for the installation of WECS showing the planned
location of each WECS Tower, including legal descriptions for each site, guy
lines and anchor bases (if any), Participating and Non-participating
Residences, Occupied Community Buildings property lines (including
identification of adjoining properties), setback lines, public access roads and
turnout locations, Substation(s), operations and maintenance buildings, and
permanent Meteorological Towers, electrical cabling from the WECS Tower to the
Substation(s), ancillary equipment, third party transmission lines, the
location of any wetlands, flood plain, drainage structures including surface
ditches and subsurface drainage lines, underground mines, scenic and natural
areas within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of the proposed WECS, the
location of all known communications towers within two (2) miles of the
proposed WECS, and the layout of all structures within the geographical
boundaries of any applicable setback;
         (4)   All determinations of No Hazard to Air Navigation from the
Federal Aviation Administration;
         (5)   A proposed Decommissioning Plan for the WECS Project including
cost estimations;
         (6)   All required studies, reports, certifications, and approvals
demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance;
         (7)   An Agricultural Impact Mitigation Agreement (AIMA) executed
between the Applicant and the Illinois Department of Agriculture;
         (8)   The topographic map shall include the WECS Project site and the
surrounding area;
         (9)   Any other information normally required by the County as part of
its permitting requirements for siting buildings or other structures;
         (10)   Waivers from the setback requirements executed by the occupied
community building owners and/or the non-participating property owners bearing
a file stamp from the County Recorder of Deeds Office confirming that the
waiver was recorded against title to the affected real property.
         (11)    Waivers from the shadow flicker mitigation requirements
executed by the occupied community building owners and/or the non-participating
property owners bearing a file stamp from the County Recorder of Deeds Office
confirming that the waiver was recorded against title to the affected real
property.
         (12)   Results and recommendations from the Illinois Dept. of Natural
Resources obtained through the Ecological Compliance Assessment Tool or a
comparable successor tool.
         (13)   Results of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's
Information for Planning and Consulting environmental review or a comparable
successor tool that is consistent with the United States Fish and Wildlife
Service's Land-Based Wind Energy Guidelines.
         (14)   Information demonstrating that the WECS Project will avoid
protected lands.
         (15)   Any other information requested by the County or the County
consultants that is necessary to evaluate the siting application and operation
of the WECS Project and to demonstrate that the WECS Project meets each of the
regulations in this Ordinance, including the Special Use Permit standards set
forth below.
         c.   Material changes to the application are not permitted once the
notice of the public hearing has been published, unless requested or permitted
by the County; and
         d.   The Applicant shall submit sixteen (16) copies of the Special Use
Permit application to the County, and at least one (1) copy in electronic
format.
   E.   Design And Installation:
      1.   Design Safety Certification: Following the granting of siting
approval under this title, a structural engineer shall certify, as part of the
building permit application that the foundation and tower design of the WECS is
within accepted professional standards, given local soil, subsurface and
climate conditions.
      2.   Aesthetics and Lighting: The following items are recommended
standards to mitigate visual impact:
         a.   Towers and blades shall be painted white or gray or another
nonreflective, unobtrusive color.
         b.   Turbine Consistency: To the extent feasible, the WECS Project
shall consist of turbines of similar design and size, including tower height.
Further, all turbines shall rotate in the same direction. Turbines shall also
be consistent in color and direction with nearby facilities.
         c.   Lighting: WECS Projects shall utilize minimal lighting that is
compliant with the applicable FAA regulations, as amended by the FAA. To the
extent that such tower lighting is available, and is approved by the FAA for a
WECS Project, the Applicant shall install Aircraft Detection Lighting Systems
("ADLS") or other similar technology to reduce light pollution and visual
impacts caused by the WECS Towers.
         d.   Intra-project Power and Communication Lines: All power lines used
to collect power from individual turbines and all communication lines shall be
buried underground at a depth in accordance with the Agricultural Impact
Mitigation Agreement until same reach the property line or a substation
adjacent to the property line.
      5.   Warnings:
         a.   A reasonably visible warning sign concerning voltage must be
placed at the base of all pad mounted transformers and substations, and at all
entrances to the Wind Towers.
         b.   Visible, reflective, colored objects, such as flags, reflectors,
or tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guywires and along the guywires
up to a height of fifteen feet (15') from the ground.
      6.   Climb Prevention:
         a.   All WECS towers must be unclimbable by design or protected by
anticlimbing devices such as:
         (1)   Fences with locking portals at least six feet (6') high; or
         (2)   Anticlimbing devices twelve feet (12') vertically from the base
of the WECS tower.
   F.   Setbacks: All setbacks for commercial wind energy facility towers shall
be measured from the center of the base of the wind tower:
      1.   Occupied Community Buildings: 2.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the WECS Tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the structure.
      2.   Participating Residences: 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height of
the WECS Tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the structure;
      3.   Nonparticipating Residences: 2.1 times the maximum blade tip height
of the WECS Tower to the nearest point on the outside wall of the structure;
      4.   Boundary Lines of Participating Property: None.
      5.   Boundary Lines of Nonparticipating Property: 1.1 times the maximum
blade tip height of the WECS Tower to the nearest point on the property line of
the nonparticipating property.
      6.   Public Road Rights-of-Way: 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height of
the WECS Tower to the center point of the public road right-of-way.
      7.   Overhead Communication and Electric Transmission and Distribution
Facilities (Not Including Overhead Utility Service Lines to Individual Houses
or Outbuildings): 1.1 times the maximum blade tip height of the WECS Tower to
the nearest edge of the property line, easement, or right of way containing the
overhead line.
      8.   Overhead Utility Service Lines to Individual Houses or Outbuildings:
None.
      9.   Fish and Wildlife Areas and Illinois Nature Preserve Commission
Protected Lands: 2.1 times the maximum blade tip height of the WECS Tower to
the nearest point on the property line of the fish and wildlife area or
protected land.
   The setback requirements may be waived by the written consent of the owner
(s) of each affected property. The Applicant does not need obtain a variance
from the County upon waiver by the property owner of the setback requirement.
Any waiver of any of the above setback requirements shall run with the land and
be recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of the County.
   G.   Compliance with Additional Regulations:
      1.   Nothing in this title is intended to preempt other applicable state
and federal laws and regulations.
   H.   Use Of Public Roads:
      1.   An applicant, owner, or operator proposing to use any (county,
municipality, township or village) road(s) for the purpose of transporting
commercial wind energy facility or supporting facilities WECS or substation
parts and/or equipment for construction, operation, or maintenance of the
commercial wind energy facility or supporting facilities WECS(s) or substation
(s), shall:
         a.   Identify all such public roads; and
         b.   Obtain applicable weight and size permits from relevant
government agencies prior to construction.
      2.   To the extent an applicant, owner, or operator must obtain a weight
or size permit from the county, municipality, township or village, the
applicant, owner, or operator shall:
         a.   Conduct a preconstruction baseline survey to determine existing
road conditions for assessing potential future damage; and
         b.   Enter into a road use agreement with the County and each affected
Road District that includes the following provisions, at a minimum:
         (1)   Project layout map;
         (2)   Transportation impact analysis;
         (3)   Pre-construction plans'
         (4)   Project traffic map;
         (5)   Project scope of repairs;
         (6)   Post-construction repairs;
         (7)   Insurance;
         (8)   Financial Security in forms and amounts acceptable to the
County;
      The road use agreement shall require Applicant to be responsible for the
reasonable cost of improving roads used to construct WECS and the reasonable
cost of repairing roads used by the facility owner during construction of the
WECS so that those roads are in a condition that is safe for the driving public
after the completion of the WECS construction. Roadways improved in preparation
for and during the construction of the WECS shall be repaired and restored to
the improved condition at the reasonable cost of the developer if the roadways
have degraded or were damaged as a result of construction-related activities.
   I.   Operation:
      1.   Maintenance:
         a.   Any physical modification to the WECS that alters the mechanical
load, mechanical load path, or major electrical components shall require
recertification under subsection D1a of this section. Prior to making any
physical modification (other than a like-kind replacement), the owner or
operator shall confer with a relevant third-party certifying entity identified
in section E1a Design Safety Certification to determine whether the physical
modification requires recertification.
   J.   Noise Levels: Noise levels from each WECS or WECS project shall be in
compliance with applicable Illinois pollution control board (IPCB) regulations.
The applicant, through the use of a qualified professional, as part of the
application process, shall appropriately demonstrate compliance with the above
noise requirements.
   K.   Avian and Wildlife Impact Study: The applicant, at its expense, shall
have a third party, qualified professional, conduct an avian and wildlife
impact study and submit said study to the County as part of the Special Use
Permit Application. Each WECS or WECS Project shall be located, designed,
constructed, and operated so as to avoid and if necessary mitigate the impacts
to wildlife.
   L.   Liability Insurance: Commencing with the issuance of a WECS Building
Permit, the applicant, owner or operator of the WECS(s) shall maintain a
current general comprehensive liability policy and automobile liability
coverage covering bodily injury, death and illness, and property damage with
limits of at least five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) per occurrence and in
the aggregate.
   M.   Compliance with Additional Regulations: Nothing in this Ordinance is
intended to preempt other applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   N.   Hearing Factors:
      1.   The County Board may approve a Commercial Wind Energy Facility
Special Use Permit application if it finds the evidence complies with state,
federal and local law and regulations, and with the standards of this zoning
code including the factors listed below. The factors below are applied as a
balancing test, not individual requirements to be met.
         a.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the WECS Project
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort or general welfare;
         b.   The WECS Project will not be injurious to the uses and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values of surrounding
properties;
         c.   The establishment of the WECS Project will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding properties;
         d.   Adequate public utilities, access roads, drainage and/or
necessary facilities have been or will be provided;
         e.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
         f.   The proposed WECS Project is not contrary to the objectives of
the current comprehensive plan of the County (if any); and
         g.   The WECS Project shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of this Ordinance and the zoning district in which it is
located (if a zoning ordinance is in effect), except as such regulations may,
in each instance, be modified pursuant to the recommendations of and approved
by the County Board. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009; amd. Ord. O2023-6, 5-9-2023)
8-5B-41: VEHICLE/EQUIPMENT SALES, VEHICLE/EQUIPMENT STORAGE YARDS AND VEHICLE
PAINT AND BODY SHOP, VEHICLE REPAIR:
All vehicle and equipment storage areas and parking areas must be hard surfaced
and dust free. Vehicle repair in the C commercial district shall be limited to
vehicles that do not exceed eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds, with a single
rear axle. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-42: FACILITIES OF A TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER:
These provisions shall not abridge any rights created by authority confirmed in
the federal telecommunications act of 1996, PL 104-104.
   A.   In designing a facility, a telecommunication carrier shall consider the
following guidelines:
      1.   No building or tower that is part of a facility should encroach onto
any recorded easement prohibiting the encroachment unless the grantees of the
easement have given their approval.
      2.   Lighting shall be installed for security and safety purposes only.
Except with respect to lighting required by the federal aviation administration
or the federal communications commission, all lighting should be shielded so
that no glare extends substantially beyond the boundaries of the facility.
      3.   No facility shall encroach on an existing septic field.
      4.   Any facility located in a special flood hazard area or wetland
should meet the legal requirements for those lands.
      5.   Existing trees more than three inches (3") in diameter should be
preserved if reasonably feasible during construction. If any tree more than
three inches (3") in diameter is removed during construction, a tree three
inches (3") in diameter or more shall be planted as a replacement if reasonably
feasible.
      6.   If any elevation of a facility faces an existing residential use in
a residential zoning district, landscaping should be provided on or near the
facility lot to provide at least partial screening of the facility. The
quantity and type of landscaping should be in accordance with any other county
landscaping requirements.
      7.   Fencing should be installed around the facility. The height and
materials should comply with any other county fence regulations.
      8.   Any building that is part of the facility located adjacent to a
residentially zoned lot should be designed with exterior colors and materials
reasonably compatible with the residential character of that area.
   B.   In choosing a location for a facility, a telecommunications carrier
shall consider the following:
      1.   A nonresidentially zoned lot is the most desirable location.
      2.   A residentially zoned lot that is not used for residential purposes
is the second most desirable location.
      3.   A residentially zoned lot that is two (2) acres or more in area and
is used for residential purposes is the third most desirable location.
      4.   A residentially zoned lot less than two (2) acres in area and is
used for residential purposes is the least desirable location.
   C.   The following provisions shall apply to all facilities established
after the effective date of the amendatory act of 1997:
      1.   Except as governed in this subsection, no yard or setback
regulations shall apply to or be required for a facility.
      2.   A facility may be located on the same lot as one or more structures
or uses.
      3.   No minimum lot area, width or depth shall be required for a
facility. No parking spaces shall be required unless the facility is used on a
regular, daily basis. If it is used on a regular, daily basis, one off street
parking space shall be provided for each employee regularly working at the
facility.
      4.   No portion of the facility's supporting structure or equipment
housing shall be less than fifteen feet (15') from the front line of the lot or
ten feet (10') from any other lot line.
      5.   Except as provided in this subsection, no height limits, bulk
regulations, lot coverage, building coverage or floor area limitations shall
apply to the facility.
      6.   The county's review of the building permit application for a
facility shall be completed within thirty (30) days. If a decision by the
county board is required to permit the establishment of a facility, the
county's review of the building permit application shall be simultaneous with
the process leading to the county board's decision.
      7.   The improvements and equipment comprising the facility may be
freestanding or wholly or partly attached to or enclosed within a structure or
structures.
   D.   The following provisions shall apply to all facilities established
after April 21, 1998:
      1.   A facility is permitted if its supporting structure is a qualifying
structure or if the following conditions are met:
         a.   The height of the facility shall not exceed three hundred fifty
feet (350'), except if the facility is located within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of the corporate limits of a municipality with a population of twenty
five thousand (25,000) or more, the height of the facility shall not exceed two
hundred feet (200').
         b.   The horizontal separation distance to the nearest residence shall
not be less than the height of the supporting structure; except that if the
supporting structure exceeds ninety nine feet (99') in height, the horizontal
separation distance to the nearest residence shall be at least one hundred feet
(100') or eighty percent (80%) of the height of the supporting structure,
whichever is greater. If the supporting structure is not an antenna tower, this
subsection is satisfied.
      2.   Unless a facility is a qualifying structure or meets the provisions
of subsections D1a and D1b of this section, a facility must receive county
board approval. If the county board fails to act on a complete application
within seventy five (75) days of submission, the application shall be deemed to
have been approved. Approval requires a majority of the county board members
present at the meeting. No more than one public hearing shall be required. The
following siting considerations shall be considered by the body conducting the
public hearing:
         a.   The criteria of this section;
         b.   Whether a substantial adverse effect on public safety will result
from some aspect of the facility's design or proposed construction, but only if
that aspect of design or construction is modifiable by the applicant;
         c.   The benefits derived by the users of the services to be provided
or enhanced by the establishment of the facility;
         d.   The existing uses on adjacent and nearby properties; and
         e.   The extent to which the design of the proposed facility reflects
compliance with this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-43: RURAL HOME BASED OFF PREMISES BUSINESS:
On a lot no less than forty (40) acres in area and subject to the following
standards and stipulations:
   A.   Employment at the site of the special use may include any persons who
are bona fide residents of the single-family dwelling located on such site and
not more than one other person who is not a bona fide resident of such single-
family dwelling.
   B.   Such home based off premises business shall not be established in any
subdivision used for residential purposes which contains more than one lot.
   C.   Such home based off premises business shall not create additional
traffic congestion on the public streets and highways, and any motor vehicles
used in the operation of such home based off premises business shall not exceed
the official weight limits on the public streets and highways which provide
access to the site of such special use. The applicant for the special use shall
provide a certified listing of the gross weights of all equipment and motor
vehicles used in the operation of such home based off premises business at the
time of the filing of the special use application with the county.
   D.   Any and all equipment, materials and supplies used in the operation of
such home based off premises business, if stored on the site of the special
use, shall be stored within not more than one completely enclosed accessory
storage building with a floor area not in excess of five thousand (5,000)
square feet and/or within an outdoor area not in excess of one acre. An office
for such home based off premises business may also be located within such
completely enclosed accessory storage building.
   E.   No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the ground floor area and not
more than fifty percent (50%) of the basement of the single-family dwelling on
the site of such special use shall be used for the operation of such special
use.
   F.   Retail sales and/or wholesale sales shall be prohibited on the site of
such special use.
   G.   No more than one home based off premises business shall be permitted to
operate from any one tract of land.
   H.   Such home based off premises business shall produce no offensive noise,
vibration, smoke, electrical interference, dust, odors, or heat on the site of
such special use.
   I.   Such home based off premises business shall not exhibit any outward
evidence of such use other than one nameplate not to exceed two (2) square feet
in area and attached to the single- family dwelling located on the site of such
special use. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-44: FREIGHT TERMINALS AND TRUCKING FACILITIES:
The following standards shall apply to all freight terminals and trucking
facilities:
   A.   Motor vehicles and equipment used in the operation of such a facility
shall not exceed the official weight limits on the public streets and highways,
which provide access to the site of the facility. The permit applicant shall
provide a certified listing of the gross weights of all equipment and motor
vehicles used in the operation of the facility.
   B.   Such facility shall be located at least three hundred feet (300') from
any residential zone or residential dwelling.
   C.   Driveways, parking lots and vehicle and equipment storage areas shall
be graded and paved with asphalt, concrete, or other hard surface materials as
approved by the county engineer.
   D.   Lighting shall be installed for safety and security purposes only
according to chapter 4, article E, "Lighting Regulations", of this title. All
lighting shall be shielded so that no glare extends substantially beyond the
boundaries of a facility. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-45: WAREHOUSE, SELF-STORAGE:
The following standards shall apply to all warehouse self-storage facilities:
   A.   All self-storage facilities shall be limited to the rental of storage
bays and the pick up and deposit of goods or property in dead storage.
   B.   Storage bays shall not be used to manufacture, fabricate or process
goods; service or repair vehicles, boats, small engines, or electrical
equipment or to conduct similar repair activities; conduct garage sales or
retail sales of any kind; or to conduct any other commercial or industrial
activity on the site.
   C.   Individual storage bays or private postal boxes within a self- storage
facility shall not be considered premises for the purposes of assigning a legal
address in order to obtain an occupational license or other governmental permit
or license to do business nor as a legal address for residential purposes.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-46: GUEST ACCOMMODATIONS AND GUEST HOUSES/HOMES 1 :
   A.   Application: Application for a zoning certificate shall be filed with
the zoning administrator in such form and in such manner as he or she requires.
No zoning certificate will be issued by the zoning administrator without
meeting the standards listed under this section.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   Parking: Each and every facility shall provide no less than one
parking place for every two (2) persons for which the licensed facility
provides occupancy. Each off street parking space shall be at least nine feet
(9') wide by twenty feet (20') long. Such parking must be provided and arranged
in such a manner that any emergency vehicle can drive up to and park within one
hundred feet (100') of the main entrance to the facility without being impeded
by parked vehicles. The area designated for off street parking must not have a
slope greater than eight percent (8%) and shall be surfaced with at least ten
inches (10") of compacted aggregate. An off street parking design plan must be
submitted. Overnight parking on township, county or state roads adjacent to the
facility is prohibited.
      2.   Ingress/Egress: Each and every facility shall provide access roads
at a grade no greater than fifteen percent (15%) at any one point and the
surface shall be no less than ten inches (10") of compacted aggregate with a
ten foot (10') driving surface, one foot (1') shoulders on each side consisting
of a material type other than that of the driveway surface grade being one-half
inch (1/2") per foot, with four to one (4:1) side slopes off of the shoulder.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1417.gif]
      3.   Access Sight Distance: Each and every facility shall have sight
distance adequate for road type accessing on and off of as indicated by the
AASHTO (American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials) "A
Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets", 2001, fourth edition
manual, as amended. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
      4.   Building Siting And Orientation: Structures, as defined in chapter 7
of this title, including all outdoor activity areas (excluding detached
accessory buildings and fencing) shall be so located on the property as
follows:
         a.   Five feet (5') from the side lot line per bedroom, with a minimum
of fifteen feet (15') and a maximum requirement of thirty five feet (35').
         b.   Thirty feet (30') from the rear lot line.
         c.   Front setback shall be in accordance with public street setbacks.
            (1)   Major highways (federal or state): Seventy five feet (75')
from the property line, or one hundred twenty five feet (125') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
            (2)   Primary or secondary thoroughfares (county highways): Sixty
feet (60') from the property line, or one hundred ten feet (110') from the
centerline of the right of way, whichever is greater.
            (3)   All other streets: Fifty feet (50') from the property line,
or eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the right of way, whichever is
greater. (Ord. 2015-7, 11-10-2015)
      5.   Outdoor Activity Areas: Each and every facility shall provide
adequate screening around any outdoor activity area (e.g., hot tubs and decks)
as determined by the zoning administrator. Natural screening shall be at a
minimum of no less than three feet (3') in height at time of planting; fencing
shall be no less than six feet (6') in height and shall be a solid fence with
no more than fifty percent (50%) view through the fence.
      6.   Septic: Each and every facility (if not on central sewer) shall have
a septic system designed according to the current Illinois private sewage
disposal licensing act and this code.
   C.   Zoning Certificate: A zoning certificate shall be valid for a period no
longer than twelve (12) months from the date of issuance unless a guest
accommodation license is procured. Zoning certificate shall remain in effect as
long as a current license is maintained under the county's guest accommodations
ordinance regardless of a change in ownership. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 6 of this code.
8-5B-47: SHOOTING RANGE:
   A.   Shooting ranges for rifle, pistol, and black powder using solid or shot
ammunition.
      1.   Every permit issued by the Jo Daviess County board for a shooting
range shall be a special use permit. Shooting and the handling of firearms on
the premises shall be conducted in a safe and orderly manner, so as not to
constitute an undue hazard to persons either on or off the premises. All
shooting will be in compliance with the Illinois state statutes.
      2.   All premises used for shooting ranges shall be completely fenced,
meeting standards of the Illinois fencing law. Each such range shall be posted
with warning signs, not more than one hundred feet (100') apart and fastened at
the level of the top of such fence, but not more than six feet (6') above the
ground. Such warning signs shall not be less than two (2) square feet in area
and shall contain the words "Danger Shooting Range" in red on a white
background. The letters of such words to be not less than four inches (4") high
and maintained in legible condition at all times.
      3.   Shooting stands are required for targets at a distance of one
hundred (100) yards or greater. Shooting stands on any shooting range shall be
located not less than one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') from any
residential dwelling other than that of the owner of the premises, his agent or
employee, and not less than one hundred feet (100') from any property line of
such premises other than that line or those lines directly opposite to the
direction of normal shooting.
      4.   The necessity and placement of any screening shall be determined by
the special use.
      5.   Ranges where solid projectile ammunition is used shall be so
arranged as to provide a sod faced barrier of earth or sand, blocking any
projectile to be fired on such ranges. For those shooting ranges where all
targets are one hundred (100) yards or less in distance, such barrier shall be
not less than twenty feet (20') in height, measured from the base of the
targets, and shall not be less than fifty feet (50') in width. For those
shooting ranges where targets are one hundred (100) yards or greater in
distance, such barrier shall not be less than thirty feet (30') in height,
measured from the base of the targets, and shall not be less than one hundred
feet (100') in width. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-48: LOT CONFIGURATION:
Any lot or parcel for nonagricultural use created after the effective date
hereof shall not have a proportional ratio value greater than 1.40. A
proportional ratio value is the product obtained by dividing the total length
of the subject parcel's perimeter in feet by the length of the perimeter of a
two to one (2:1) rectangle having the same area. A two to one (2:1) rectangle
is a square cornered four (4) sided figure having a length exactly twice its
width.
   A.   To determine the perimeter of a two to one (2:1) rectangle with a given
area:
      1.   Divide the area in square feet by two (2).
      2.   The square root of the product is the length of the short side of
the rectangle.
      3.   The length of the long side of the rectangle is twice that of the
short side.
      4.   Add the lengths of the two (2) short sides with the lengths of the
two (2) long sides, to determine the total perimeter.
   B.   Example:
      1.   Given:
         a.   A five (5) acre parcel is proposed.
         b.   By adding the lengths of the lot boundaries shown on the
submitted plat the total perimeter of the proposed parcel is determined to be
two thousand nine hundred seventy feet (2,970').
      2.   Calculation:
         a.   5 acres x 43,560 square feet/acre = 217,800 square feet.
         b.   217,800 square feet divided by 2 = 108,900 square feet.
         c.   The square root of 108,900 square feet = 330 feet; this is the
short side of the 2:1 rectangle.
         d.   330 feet + 330 feet + 660 feet + 660 feet = 1,980 feet; this is
the perimeter of the 2:1 rectangle.
         e.   Divide the total perimeter of the proposed parcel given above,
2,970 feet by the perimeter of the 2:1 rectangle, 1,980 feet. This equals 1.50,
and is the proportional value.
         f.   Since 1.50 exceeds the 1.40 maximum, this lot would not be
acceptable. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-49: KENNEL, COMMERCIAL:
   A.   Animal hospitals, kennels or pounds, provided no building or pen
housing any animals shall be located closer than one thousand feet (1,000') to
any residential district, or to a dwelling other than that of the lessee or the
owner. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-5B-50: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS, PRIVATE:
   A.   Accessory Use: Private wind energy conversion systems accessory to an
established agricultural and residential use provided that all private WECS
towers shall be set back not less than 1.10 times the tower height from any
public road right of way, overhead utility transmission lines, communication
towers, and adjacent property lines. The affected road authority, utility,
tower owner/lessee and/or affected adjacent property owner may waive the
setback. Said waiver shall be in writing. However, in no instance shall any
part of a private WECS, including guywires, be located within five feet (5') of
any of the aforementioned items.
   B.   Capacity: Private WECS consisting of a wind turbine, a tower, and
associated control or conversion electronics may have a capacity of up to five
hundred (500) kilowatts and is intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption
of utility power.
   C.   Tower Height: For property sizes between one-half (1/2) acre and one
acre the tower height shall be no greater than eighty feet (80'). For property
sizes of more than one acre there is no limitation on tower height, except as
imposed by FAA regulations.
   D.   Code Compliance: Building permit applications for private WECS shall be
accompanied by standard drawings of the wind turbine structure, including the
tower, base and footings. An engineering analysis of the tower showing
compliance with the county's adopted building codes and certified by a licensed
professional engineer shall be submitted as well as a line drawing of the
electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that
the manner of installation conforms to the adopted electrical codes. These
analyses are frequently supplied by the manufacturer. Private WECS must comply
with applicable FAA regulations, including any necessary approvals for
installations close to airports.
   E.   Utility Notification: No private WECS shall be installed until evidence
has been given that the utility company has been informed of the customer's
intent to install an interconnected customer owned generator. Off grid systems
shall be exempt from this requirement.
   F.   Approval: Private WECS must be approved under the small wind
certification program recognized by the American Wind Energy Association. (Ord.
2009-3, 5-12-2009; amd. Ord. O2023-6, 5-9-2023)
8-5B-51: AGRI-TOURISM STANDARD:
Those uses listed as permitted under the agri-tourism heading in section
8-5A-6 of this chapter, are only permitted when associated with an active
agricultural operation. (Ord. 2011-8, 11-8-2011)
8-5B-52: DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT AND DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT;
MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: To provide an opportunity to offer cost effective
independent accessory housing options in close proximity to the principal
dwelling.
The following standards are in place to ensure that the detached accessory
dwelling units are compatible with the character of the area, share
infrastructure and common spaces with the principal residence on the parcel and
shall not be split from the parcel on which the principal residence sits.
   B.   Development Standards:
      1.   Generally, the development standards stated in this section are
applicable to a detached accessory dwelling unit and a detached accessory
dwelling unit; manufactured home unless specifically stated otherwise. If not
addressed in this section, the base zone development standards apply.
         a.   No more than one (1) detached accessory dwelling unit shall be
established on a parcel and shall only be allowed as an accessory to a
principal residence on the property.
         b.   Manufactured homes when used as a detached accessory dwelling
unit shall not be older than fifteen (15) years at the time of placement.
         c.   Special use permits issued for a detached accessory dwelling
unit; manufactured home shall expire three (3) years from issuance date and may
be extended in accordance with section
8-2D-7 of this title. If no extension is received the unit shall be removed
from the property.
         d.   Home occupations are prohibited in a detached accessory dwelling
unit.
         e.   A detached accessory dwelling unit shall only be allowed on a
zoning lot of five (5) acres in size or more.
         f.   The gross floor area of an accessory dwelling unit shall be no
less than four hundred (400) square feet and no greater than nine hundred (900)
square feet.
         g.   Detached accessory dwellings shall be located no more than one
hundred fifty feet (150') from a principal dwelling (to be measured from
outside of structure to outside of structure).
         h.   Detached accessory dwellings shall utilize the existing driveway
that is serving the principal residence and shall be metered off of the
existing electric and water supply.
         i.   Detached accessory dwellings shall not be used as guest
accommodations. (Ord. 2016-8, 10-11-2016)
8-5B-53: ADULT-USE CANNABIS:
   A.   Purpose and Intent: It is the intent and purpose of this Section to
provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of
adult-use cannabis occurring within the unincorporated areas of Jo Daviess
County. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the regulations
provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more restrictive of
the state or local regulations shall apply.
   B.   Special Use: Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment facilities, as
defined herein, requiring approval of a special use in the respective districts
in which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with Chapter 2,
Article D (Special Uses) of this Title and Section
8-5B-53C. (Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components) as provided herein.
   C.   Adult-Use Cannabis Facility Components: In determining compliance with
Chapter 2, Article D (Special Uses) of this Title, the following components of
the Adult-Use Cannabis Facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the
circumstances affecting the particular property in the context of the existing
and intended future use of the properties:
      1.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property.
      2.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, including
co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage, security
installations/security plan and building code compliance.
      3.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
      4.   Anticipated parking demand based on Chapter 4, Article D of this
Title and available private parking supply.
      5.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
      6.   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation.
      7.   Proposed signage plan.
      8.   Compliance with all requirements provided in Section D (Adult-Use
Cannabis Craft Grower); Section E (Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center);
Section F (Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization); Section G (Adult-Use
Cannabis Infuser Organization); Section H (Adult-Use Cannabis Processing
Organization); or Section I (Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization), as
applicable.
      9.   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with
Chapter 2, Article D (Special Uses) of this Title.
   D.   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower: In those zoning districts in which an
Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Craft Grower shall be classified as “For building and other enclosed
structures” per Section
8-4D-7 (Schedule B of Off-Street Parking Requirements), provided, however, that
the County may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the
analysis completed through Section C. (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the County affirming
compliance with Section D. as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
   E.   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center: In those zoning districts in
which an Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2    Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential purposes.
      3.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use Cannabis
Cultivation Centers shall be classified as “For building and other enclosed
structures” per Section
8-4D-7 (Schedule B of Off-Street Parking Requirements), provided, however, that
the County may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the
analysis completed through Section C. (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the County affirming
compliance with Section E. as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
   F.   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      3.   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the dispensing
organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing organization shall
also sell food for consumption on the premises other than as authorized in
Section F.5. below in the same tenant space.
      4.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other
than as authorized by the Act.
      5.   On site consumption of cannabis shall be prohibited.
      6.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as “Retail establishment” per Section
8-4D-7 (Schedule B of Off-Street Parking Requirements), provided, however, that
the County may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the
analysis completed through Section C. (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      7.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the County affirming
compliance with Section F as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
   G.   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization: In those zoning districts in
which an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      3.   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by an
infusing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the infusing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as “For building and other enclosed structures” per Section
8-4D-7 (Schedule B of Off-Street Parking Requirements), provided, however, that
the County may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the
analysis completed through Section C (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the County affirming
compliance with Section G as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
   H.   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      3.   At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by a
processing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the processing
organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as “For building and other enclosed structures” per Section
8-4D-7 (Schedule B of Off-Street Parking Requirements), provided, however, that
the County may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the
analysis completed through Section C (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the County affirming
compliance with Section H as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
   I.   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an Adult-Use Transporting Organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
      1.   Facility may not be located within 1,500 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this Section.
      2.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within 250 feet of
the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      3.   The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
      4.   For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities shall
be classified as “For building and other enclosed structures” per Section
8-4D-7 (Schedule B of Off-Street Parking Requirements), provided, however, that
the County may require that additional parking be provided as a result of the
analysis completed through Section C (Adult-Use Cannabis: Special Use) herein.
      5.   Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the County affirming
compliance with Section I as provided herein and all other requirements of the
Act.
   J.   Additional Requirements: Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the special use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an Adult-Use Cannabis Business
Establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
   K.   Co-Location of Cannabis Business Establishments. The County may approve
the co-location of an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization with an Adult-
Use Cannabis Craft Grower Center or an Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization,
or both, subject to the provisions of the Act and the Special Use criteria
within the Jo Daviess County Zoning Regulations. In a co-location, the floor
space requirements of Section F. 3 and G. 3 shall not apply, but the co-located
establishments shall be the sole use of the tenant space.
(Ord. 2019-4, 12-10-2019)
8-5B-54: SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY, COMMERCIAL:
   A.   Applicability: This section governs the siting of commercial solar
energy facilities and is applicable to all commercial solar energy facilities
requiring a special use permit.
      1.   All commercial solar energy facilities shall fully comply with
Public Act 102-1123 as amended and all other State and Federal laws, rules, and
regulations that pertain to siting, construction, operating and maintaining the
facility.
   B.   Prohibition: No Commercial Solar Energy Facility or Substation governed
by this Ordinance shall be constructed, erected, installed, or located within
the county, unless prior siting approval has been obtained for each individual
Commercial Solar Energy Facility or for a group of Commercial Solar Energy
Facilities under a joint siting application pursuant to this Ordinance.
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   Submittal Requirements:
         a.   To obtain a special use permit, the applicant must first submit
an application to the county.
         b.   In addition to the application requirements stated in chapter 2,
article D of this title the application shall contain or be accompanied by the
following information:
         (1)   A Commercial Solar Energy Facility Summary, including, to the
extent available: (a) a general description of the project, including (i) its
approximate overall name plate generating capacity, (ii) the potential
equipment manufacturer(s), (iii) type(s) of solar panels, cells and modules,
(iv) the number of solar panels, cells and modules, (v) the maximum height of
the solar panels at full tilt, (vi) the number of Substations, (vii) a project
site plan, project phasing plan and project construction timeline plan, and
(viii) the general location of the project; and (b) a description of the
Applicant, Owner and Operator, including their respective business structures;
         (2)   The name(s), address(es), and phone number(s) of the Applicant
(s), Owner and Operator, and all property owner(s), if known, and Documentation
demonstrating land ownership or legal control of the property;
         (3)   A site plan for the Commercial Solar Energy Facility showing the
planned location of solar panels, including legal descriptions for each site,
Participating and Non-participating Residences, Occupied Community Buildings,
parcel boundary lines (including identification of adjoining properties),
setback lines, public access roads and turnout locations, Substation(s),
operations and maintenance buildings, electrical cabling to the Substation(s),
ancillary equipment, third party transmission lines, the location of any
wetlands, flood plain, drainage structures including surface ditches and
subsurface drainage lines, underground mines, scenic and natural areas within
one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of the proposed Commercial Solar Energy
Facility, and the layout of all structures within the geographical boundaries
of any applicable setback;
         (4)   A proposed Decommissioning Plan for the Commercial Solar Energy
Facility;
         (5)   All required studies, reports, certifications, and approvals
demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance;
         (6)   An Agricultural Impact Mitigation Agreement (AIMA) executed
between the Applicant and the Illinois Department of Agriculture;
         (7)   The topographic map shall include the Commercial Solar Energy
Facility site and the surrounding area;
         (8)   Any other information normally required by the County as part of
its permitting requirements for siting buildings or other structures;
         (9)   Waivers from the setback requirements executed by the occupied
community building owners and/or the non-participating property owners bearing
a file stamp from the County Recorder of Deeds Office confirming that the
waiver was recorded against title to the affected real property;
         (10)   Results and recommendations from the Illinois Dept. of Natural
Resources obtained through the Ecological Compliance Assessment Tool or a
comparable successor tool.
         (11)   Results of any United States Fish and Wildlife Service's
Information for Planning and Consulting environmental review or a comparable
successor tool that is consistent with any applicable United States Fish and
Wildlife Service's solar wildlife guidelines.
         (12)   Information demonstrating that the Commercial Solar Energy
Facility will avoid protected lands.
         (13)   Any other information requested by the County or the County
consultants that is necessary to evaluate the siting application and operation
of the Commercial Solar Energy Facility and to demonstrate that the Commercial
Solar Energy Facility meets each of the regulations in this Ordinance,
including the Special Use Permit standards set forth below.
   D.   Design and Installation:
      1.   Design Safety Certification
         a.   Commercial Solar Energy Facilities shall conform to applicable
industry standards, including those of the American National Standards
Institute ("ANSI"). Applicants shall submit certificates of design compliance
that equipment manufacturers have obtained from Underwriters Laboratories
("UL"), or an equivalent third party. All solar panels, cells and modules;
solar panel mounts and racking, including any helical piles, ground screws,
ballasts, or other anchoring systems shall be new equipment commercially
available; no used or experimental equipment shall be used without the approval
of a variance by the County Board.
         b.   Following the granting of siting approval under this Ordinance, a
structural engineer shall certify, as part of the Commercial Solar Energy
Facility Building Permit application process, that the design of the Commercial
Solar Energy Facility is within accepted professional standards, given local
soil, subsurface and climate conditions.
   E.   Electrical Components:
      1.   All electrical components of the Commercial Solar Energy Facility
shall conform to applicable local, state, and national codes, and relevant
national and international standards (e.g. ANSI and International Electrical
Commission).
   F.   Height
      1.   No component of a solar panel, cell or modules may exceed twenty
(20) feet in height above the ground at full tilt.
   G.   Aesthetics and Lighting:
      1.   Vegetative Screening: A vegetative screen shall be provided for any
part of the Commercial Solar Energy Facility that is visible to Non-
participating Residence. The landscaping screen shall be located between the
required fencing and the property line of the participating parcel upon which
the facility sits. The vegetative screening shall include a continuous line of
native evergreen foliage and/or native shrubs and/or native trees and/or any
existing wooded area and/or plantings of tall native grasses and other native
flowering plants.
      2.   Lighting: If lighting is provided at the Commercial Solar Energy
Facility, lighting shall be shielded and downcast such that the light does not
spill onto the adjacent parcel.
      3.   Intra-project Power and Communication Lines: All power lines used to
collect power and all communication lines shall be buried underground at a
depth in accordance with the Agricultural Impact Mitigation Agreement until
same reach the property line or a substation adjacent to the property line.
   H.   Fencing:
      1.   A fence of at least six (6) feet and not more than twenty-five (25)
feet in height shall enclose and secure the Commercial Solar Energy Facility.
   I.   Warnings:
      1.   A reasonably visible warning sign concerning voltage must be placed
at the base of all pad-mounted transformers and Substations.
      2.   Visible, reflective, colored objects, such as flags, plastic
sleeves, reflectors, or tape shall be placed on the anchor points of guy wires
and along the guy wires up to a height of fifteen (15) feet from the ground.
   J.   Setbacks:
      1.   The Commercial Solar Energy Facility shall be sited as follows, with
setback distances measured
         a.   Occupied Community Buildings and Dwellings on Nonparticipating
Properties: one hundred fifty (150) feet to the nearest point on the outside
wall of the structure.
         b.   Nonparticipating Residences: one hundred fifty (150) feet to the
nearest point on the outside wall of the structure.
         c.   Boundary Lines of Participating Property: None.
         d.   Boundary Lines of Nonparticipating Property: fifty (50) feet to
the nearest point on the property line of the nonparticipating property.
         e.   Public Road Rights-of-Way: fifty (50) feet the nearest edge of
the public road right-of-way.
   K.   Use Of Public Roads:
      1.   An applicant, owner, or operator proposing to use any (county,
municipality, township or village) road(s) for the purpose of transporting
commercial wind energy facility or supporting facilities WECS or substation
parts and/or equipment for construction, operation, or maintenance of the
commercial wind energy facility or supporting facilities WECS(s) or substation
(s), shall:
         a.   Identify all such public roads; and
         b.   Obtain applicable weight and size permits from relevant
government agencies prior to construction.
      2.   To the extent an applicant, owner, or operator must obtain a weight
or size permit from the county, municipality, township or village, the
applicant, owner, or operator shall:
         a.   Conduct a preconstruction baseline survey to determine existing
road conditions for assessing potential future damage; and
         b.   Enter into a road use agreement with the County and each affected
Road District that includes the following provisions, at a minimum:
         (1)   Project layout map;
         (2)   Transportation impact analysis;
         (3)   Pre-construction plans'
         (4)   Project traffic map;
         (5)   Project scope of repairs;
         (6)   Post-construction repairs;
         (7)   Insurance;
         (8)   Financial Security in forms and amounts acceptable to the
County;
      The road use agreement shall require Applicant to be responsible for the
reasonable cost of improving roads used to construct Commercial Solar Energy
Facility and the reasonable cost of repairing roads used by the facility owner
during construction of the Community Solar Energy Facility so that those roads
are in a condition that is safe for the driving public after the completion of
the Commercial Solar Energy Facility construction. Roadways improved in
preparation for and during the construction of the Community Solar Energy
Facility shall be repaired and restored to the improved condition at the
reasonable cost of the developer if the roadways have degraded or were damaged
as a result of construction-related activities.
   L.   Noise Levels:
      1.   Noise levels from Commercial Solar Energy Facilities shall be in
compliance with applicable Illinois Pollution Control Board (IPCB) regulations.
The Applicant shall submit manufacturer's sound power level characteristics and
other relevant data regarding noise characteristics necessary for a competent
noise analysis. The Applicant, through the use of a qualified professional,
shall appropriately demonstrate compliance with the applicable noise
requirements in its Special Use Permit application.
   M.   Operation and Maintenance:
      1.   Annual Report. The Applicant must submit, on an annual basis on the
anniversary date of the Special Use Permit application, an operation and
maintenance report to the County. The report shall contain the following
information: (i) a general description of any physical repairs, replacements or
modification(s) to the Commercial Solar Energy Facility and/or its
infrastructure; (ii) complaints pertaining to setbacks, noise, appearance,
safety, lighting and use of any public roads received by the Applicant
concerning the Commercial Solar Energy Facility and the resolution of such
complaints; (iii) calls for emergency services; (iv) status of liability
insurance; and (v) a general summary of service calls to the Commercial Solar
Energy Facility. Failure to provide the annual report shall be considered a
material violation of this Ordinance and subject to Section O. Remedies.
      2.   Re-Certification. Any physical modification to the Commercial Solar
Energy Facility that alters the mechanical load, mechanical load path, or major
electrical components shall require re-certification. Like-kind replacements
and modifications that are made in the ordinary course of operations, including
expected repairs and warranty items, shall not require re-certification. Prior
to making any physical modification (other than a like-kind replacement or
other modifications made in the ordinary course of operations), the Applicant
shall confer with a relevant third-party certifying entity identified in Design
and Safety Certification section of this Ordinance to determine whether the
physical modification requires re-certification.
   N.   Decommissioning Plan:
      1.   A decommissioning plan must be submitted to ensure that the WECS
project is properly decommissioned. The decommissioning plan shall include:
         a.   Provisions describing the triggering events for decommissioning
the WECS project;
         b.   Provisions for the removal of structures, debris and cabling,
including those below the soil surface;
         c.   Provisions for the restoration of the soil and vegetation;
         d.   An estimate of the decommissioning costs certified by a
professional engineer;
         e.   Financial assurance, secured by the owner or operator, for the
purpose of adequately performing decommissioning, in an amount equal to the
professional engineer's certified estimate of the decommissioning costs;
         f.   Identification of and procedures for county access to financial
assurances;
         g.   A provision that the terms of the decommissioning plan shall be
binding upon the owner or operator and any of their successors, assigns, or
heirs; and
         h.   A provision that the county shall have access to the site,
pursuant to reasonable notice, to effect or complete decommissioning.
   O.   Remedies:
      1.   The applicant's, owner's, or operator's failure to materially comply
with any of the above provisions shall constitute a default under this title.
      2.   Prior to implementation of the existing county procedures for the
resolution of such default(s), the appropriate county body shall first provide
written notice to the owner and operator, setting forth the alleged default(s).
Such written notice shall provide the owner and operator a reasonable time
period, not to exceed sixty (60) days, for good faith negotiations to resolve
the alleged default(s).
      3.   If the county determines in its discretion that the parties cannot
resolve the alleged default within the good faith negotiation period, the
existing county ordinance provisions addressing the resolution of such default
shall govern.
   P.   Compliance with Additional Regulations: Nothing in this Ordinance is
intended to preempt other applicable state and federal laws and regulations.
   Q.   Hearing Factors:
      1.   The County Board may approve a Commercial Solar Energy Facility
Special Use Permit application, if it finds the evidence complies with state
and federal law and regulations, and with the standards of this zoning code
including the factors listed below. The factors below are applied as a
balancing test, not individual requirements to be met.
         a.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the Commercial
Solar Energy Facility will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety, morals, comfort or general welfare;
         b.   The Commercial Solar Energy Facility will not be injurious to the
uses and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes
already permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values of
surrounding properties;
         c.   The establishment of the Commercial Solar Energy Facility will
not impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of the
surrounding properties;
         d.   Adequate public utilities, access roads, drainage and/or
necessary facilities have been or will be provided;
         e.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress
and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets;
         f.   The proposed Commercial Solar Energy Facility is not contrary to
the objectives of the current comprehensive plan of the County (if any); and
         g.   The Commercial Solar Energy Facility shall, in all other
respects, conform to the applicable regulations of this Ordinance and the
zoning district in which it is located (if a zoning ordinance is in effect),
except as such regulations may, in each instance, be modified pursuant to the
recommendations of and approved by the County Board. (Ord. O2023-6, 5-9-2023)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Statement Of Purpose
8-6-2: Applicability
8-6-3: General
8-6-4: Nonconforming Lots Of Record
8-6-5: Nonconforming Structures
8-6-6: Existing Nonconforming Uses
8-6-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
lots of record, structures, and uses. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-6-2: APPLICABILITY:
Any lawfully existing lot, building, structure, or use which does not conform
with the regulations of the district in which it is located shall be subject to
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-6-3: GENERAL:
Nonconformities are of three (3) types: nonconforming lots of record,
nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses. A definition of each type is
as follows:
NONCONFORMING LOT OF RECORD: A legally established lot which does not conform
with the minimum lot size, lot width, or lot depth requirements of this title.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: An existing structure which does not comply with the
height or yard requirements which are applicable to new structures in the
zoning district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: An existing use which does not comply with the use
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-
2009)
8-6-4: NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD:
The zoning administrator shall issue a zoning certificate for a structure or
building on a nonconforming lot of record, provided that the zoning
administrator finds that:
   A.   Said lot is shown by a recorded plat or deed to have been owned
separately and individually from adjoining tracts of land at a time when the
creation of a lot of such size and width at such location would not have been
prohibited by any zoning regulations, and
   B.   Said lot has remained in separate and individual ownership from
adjoining tracts of and continuously during the entire time that conformance of
such lot has been in nonconformance, and
   C.   Said structure or building can meet all yard regulations for the
district in which it is located, and
   D.   Said lot can meet the minimum standards for an on site sewage treatment
as required by the Jo Daviess County health department or can be served by a
public sanitary sewerage system. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-6-5: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
   A.   Authority To Continue: Any nonconforming structure which is devoted to
a use which is permitted in the zoning district in which it is located may be
occupied, so long as it remains otherwise lawful. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
   B.   Enlargement, Repair, Alterations:
      1.   Any nonconforming structure may be enlarged, maintained, repaired or
remodeled; provided, however, no such enlargement, maintenance, repair or
remodeling shall either create any additional nonconformity or increase the
degree of existing nonconformity of all or any part of such structure, except
as provided in subsection B2 of this section; provided further, existing
manufactured home parks not meeting the requirements of this title shall be
declared nonconforming and shall not be permitted to add spaces or make any
improvements inconsistent with the terms and conditions of this title. Ordinary
repairs and alterations shall be determined by the zoning administrator and
shall include, among other things, the replacement of storage tanks where the
safety of operation of the installation requires such replacement.
      2.   An addition to a lawfully existing nonconforming building or
structure that would not meet the strict letter of this title but would not
extend farther than the original building or structure into any required
setback(s) of the zoning lot that the original building or structure is located
may be permitted. Before issuing a permit for an addition to be constructed
under this subsection, a notice of the intent to issue such a permit shall be
sent by certified mail (to be paid for by the applicant) to all adjoining
landowners and any affected highway authority. If any adjoining landowner or
affected highway authority files a written objection with the zoning
administrator within fifteen (15) days of receipt of such notice, a permit
shall not be issued. The applicant may, however, proceed with an application
for a variation as set forth in chapter 2, article C of this title. (Ord. 2012-
3, 2-14-2012)
   C.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that a nonconforming building or
structure is damaged or destroyed by any means, such building or structure may
be restored or reconstructed, providing such restoration is on the existing
footing of such buildings or structures. If such restoration or reconstruction
is not on the existing footing, then such building shall not be restored unless
it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in which it is
located. No repairs or restoration shall be made unless a building permit is
obtained, and restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of
damage or destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
   D.   Moving: No nonconforming structure shall be moved in whole or in part
for any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other lot
unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located after being moved.
   E.   Conforming Uses:
      1.   A conforming use located in a nonconforming structure may be
expanded within the nonconforming structure in which said use is presently
located, but no changes or structural alterations shall be made unless such
changes or structural alterations conform to all the regulations of the
district in which the nonconforming structure is located.
      2.   A nonconforming use of a nonconforming structure may be changed to a
conforming use in the district in which the nonconforming structure is located.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
   F.   Manufactured/Mobile Home: When a manufactured/mobile home, legally
existed on a parcel of land zoned RP planned residential as of April 10, 2006,
and remains as of the date of this amendment, it may be replaced with a
manufactured home that is no more than fifteen (15) years old. Said
manufactured home must comply with all waste disposal requirements and conform
to the setback requirements set forth in section
8-3H-7 of this title, and with all other applicable regulations as adopted by
the county of Jo Daviess. When a manufactured/mobile home is moved off of the
lot, a building permit shall be obtained and it shall be replaced within twenty
four (24) months. If it is not replaced within the above stated time, any
structure thereafter shall conform to the RP district regulations.
      1.   Manufactured/mobile homes that were in place as of April 10, 2006,
but had been moved off the premises prior to April 11, 2011, may be replaced
within twenty four (24) months of the adoption of this subsection F. Said
manufactured home must comply with all waste disposal requirements and conform
to the setback requirements set forth in section
8-3H-7 of this title, and with all other applicable regulations as adopted by
the county of Jo Daviess. If not replaced within the twenty four (24) months'
time, any structure thereafter shall conform to the RP district regulations.
(Ord. 2011-3, 4-11-2011)
8-6-6: EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Authority To Continue: Nonconforming uses may be allowed to continue
except as such uses may be limited or eliminated by the provisions of this
section.
   B.   Ordinary Repair And Maintenance:
      1.   Normal maintenance and incidental repair, or replacement,
installation or relocation of nonbearing walls, nonbearing partitions,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing, may be performed on any structure that is devoted
in whole or in part to a nonconforming use.
      2.   Nothing in these regulations shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of a structure in accordance
with an order of a public official who is charged with protecting the public
safety and who declares such structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration
to a safe condition.
      3.   Ordinary repairs and alterations shall be determined by the zoning
administrator and shall include, among other things, the replacement of storage
tanks where the safety of operation of the installation requires such
replacement.
   C.   Extension: A nonconforming use shall not be extended, expanded,
enlarged, or increased in intensity. Such prohibited activities shall include,
without being limited to:
      1.   Extension of such use to any structure or land area other than that
occupied by such nonconforming use on the effective date of these regulations
(or on the effective date of subsequent amendments hereto that cause such use
to become nonconforming).
      2.   Extension of such use within a structure to any portion of the floor
area that was not occupied by such nonconforming use on the effective date of
these regulations (or on the effective date of subsequent amendments hereto
that cause such use to become nonconforming); provided, however, that such use
may be extended throughout any part of such structure that was lawfully and
manifestly designed or arranged for such use on such effective date.
   D.   Enlargement: No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use shall be enlarged or added to in any manner unless such
structure and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   E.   Structural Alterations: No structural alterations shall be made in or
to such building or structure all or substantially all of which is designed or
intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is located, except
those required by law.
   F.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that any structure that is devoted
in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, by any
means, such use may be reestablished or resumed, only if the restoration or
reconstruction of the structure is in compliance with subsection 8-6-5C of this
chapter and the use must be reestablished or resumed within twelve (12) months
of the structure being damaged or destroyed. If the nonconforming use is not
reestablished or resumed within twelve (12) months, then such use shall
thereafter conform to the regulation for the district in which it is located.
   G.   Moving: No structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a
nonconforming use and nonconforming use of land shall be moved in whole or in
part for any distance whatever, to any other location on the same or any other
lot, unless the entire structure and the use thereof or the use of land shall
thereafter conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is
located after being so moved.
   H.   Change In Use: No nonconforming use shall be changed to another
nonconforming use when such nonconforming use is located in a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a permitted use.
   I.   Abandonment Or Discontinuance: When a nonconforming use is discontinued
or abandoned for a period of twenty-four (24) consecutive months, such use
shall not thereafter be reestablished or resumed, and any subsequent use or
occupancy of such land shall comply with the regulations of the zoning district
in which such land is located.
   J.   Nonconforming Accessory Uses: No use which is accessory to a principal
nonconforming use shall continue after such principal use shall cease or
terminate. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009; Ord. O2021-4, 8-10-2021)
CHAPTER 7
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-7-1: General Terms And Uses
8-7-2: Defined Terms
8-7-1: GENERAL TERMS AND USES:
This chapter contains definitions of general terms, use types and sign
terminology used throughout the text of this zoning ordinance. The use
definitions are mutually exclusive, which means that uses that are specifically
defined shall not also be considered to be a part of a more general definition
of a use type. An "adult bookstore", for example, shall not be considered a
"retail sales and service" use, since "adult bookstore" is a more specific
definition of the use. (Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009)
8-7-2: DEFINED TERMS:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer correctly directs or exhorts any person,
advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, project or activity conducted
or product available on the premises where such sign is displayed.
ABUTTING (Contiguous, Adjacent): Having one or more common boundary lines or
district lines.
ACCESS: A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a property.
ACTIVE AGRICULTURAL OPERATION: An act of performing "agriculture" as defined in
this section.
ADULT: A person eighteen (18) years and older.
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having ten percent (10%) or more portion of
its stock in trade, to include, but not limited to, books, photographs,
magazines, films for sale or viewing on the premises by use of motion picture
devices, or other coin operated means, or other periodicals which are
distinguished or characterized by their principal emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" as defined
herein.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS: A "modeling studio", "adult bookstore",
"adult entertainment facility", "bathhouse" or "massage parlor" as defined
herein.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY: Any building, structure or facility which
contains or is used entirely or partially for commercial entertainment,
including theaters used for presenting live presentations, videotapes or films
predominantly distinguished or characterized by their principal emphasis on
matters depicting, describing, or relating to "specified sexual activities", as
defined herein, and exotic dance facilities (regardless of whether the theater
or facility provides a live presentation, videotape or film presentation),
where the patrons either:
   A.   Engage in personal contact with, or allow personal contact by
employees, devices or equipment, or by personnel provided by the establishment
which appeals to the prurient interest of the patrons; or
   B.   Observe any live presentation, videotape or film presentation of
persons wholly or partially nude with their genitals or pubic region exposed or
covered only with transparent or opaque covering, or in the case of female
persons with the areola and nipple of the breast exposed or covered only with
transparent or opaque covering or to observe "specified sexual activities" as
defined herein.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
AGRI-TOURISM: The act of visiting an active agricultural operation for the
purpose of education, enjoyment or active involvement for the visitor in the
activities of the agricultural operation.
AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING: The initial processing of crop based agricultural
products that is reasonably required to take place in close proximity to the
site where such products are produced. Typical uses include grain elevators and
grain mills.
AGRICULTURAL SALES AND SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the sale
or rental of agricultural tools and implements, feed and grain, tack, animal
care products and agricultural supplies. This definition excludes the sale of
large implements, such as tractors and combines, but includes food sales and
agricultural machinery repair services that are accessory to the principal use.
AGRICULTURAL THEMED PUBLIC EVENTS: An event organized, managed and promoted
that is beyond the principal agriculture use, or permitted agri-tourism
activity normally associated with the operation that includes, but is not
limited to, the selling of additional food, alcohol, or other goods; the
installation of tents, stages and stands. An active agricultural operation may
not exceed three (3) 3-day agricultural themed public events annually.
AGRICULTURE: An art or science of cultivating the ground, including harvesting
of crops and rearing and management of livestock; tillage; husbandry; farming;
in a broader sense, the science and art of the production of plants and animals
useful to man, including to a variable extent the preparation of these products
for man's use. In this broad use it includes farming, horticulture and
forestry, together with such subject as butter and cheese making, sugar making,
etc. Unless restricted by the context, the words "agricultural purposes" have
generally been given this comprehensive meaning by the courts of the Country.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance, now known or hereafter invented, for use or designed
for flight in air.
AIRPORT OR AIRSTRIP: Any public or privately owned or operated ground facility
designed to accommodate landing and takeoff operations of aircraft, including
all taxiways, aircraft storage and tie down areas, hangars and other
nonresidential buildings and open spaces.
ALLEY: A public right-of-way which is less than thirty four feet (34') (9 m)
wide and affords a secondary means of access to abutting property. Frontage on
an alley shall not be construed as satisfying the requirements related to
frontage on a public street.
ALTERATION: A change in shape, location, character, occupancy or use of a
building or structure.
AMUSEMENT EVENTS/FESTIVALS: Activities intended for public amusement which may
or may not require some sort of remittance to enter the activity area or
partake in the activity and is open to the general public where patrons attend
for social or pleasure rather than business reasons. Uses that fall under agri-
tourism and agricultural themed public events shall not be treated as amusement
events/festivals. For the purpose of this definition "events/festivals"
includes but is not limited to: circus, carnival, fair, flea market, craft
fair, trade show, concert, athletic competition, haunted house/barn, and any
similar activity not involving the erection of any permanent structure or
facility. Large scale events/festivals when utilizing more than five (5) acres
of land shall be considered large scale and are not permittable under section
8-5B-37 of this title, with the exception of a haunted forest and historical
reenactments.
AMUSEMENT EVENTS/FESTIVALS, LARGE SCALE: Those uses identified under amusement
event/festivals when utilizing more than five (5) acres of land mass.
ANIMAL CARE, GENERAL: A use providing animal care, veterinary services or
boarding. See definitions of animal care, limited and kennel.
ANIMAL CARE, LIMITED: A use providing animal care, boarding and veterinary
services for household pets, with no outside animal runs. See definitions of
animal care, general and kennel.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign which includes action or motion. For purposes of this
title, this term does not refer to flashing or changing, all of which are
separately defined.
APPLICANT: The owner or duly designated representative of land for which a
rezoning, special use permit, amendment, variance, construction permit, or
certificate of occupancy has been requested.
AREAS OF NATURAL, HISTORICAL/CULTURAL, GEOLOGICAL, EDUCATIONAL, OR RESEARCH
SIGNIFICANCE: These areas consist of ecologically important and/or cultural/
archaeologically important sites for protection as natural areas or known
archaeological sites. Natural resources conservation areas protect outstanding
examples of native ecosystems, habitat for endangered, threatened and sensitive
plants and animals, and scenic landscapes. Cultural resource areas protect
outstanding examples of human settlements, village sites, effigy mounds and
burial mounds as determined by the Illinois State Archaeological Survey.
Education and low impact public use are appropriate on conservation areas where
they do not impair the resource values of the area protected. Research,
educational use, and public access natural and cultural areas provide unique
opportunities for research and education by protecting relatively undisturbed
native communities, wildlife habitat, and populations of native rare plants.
Educational use of natural and cultural areas are used as outdoor classrooms by
all educational levels, from primary school through college graduate studies
and continuing adult education. Other public access would allow low impact uses
that do not negatively affect special features of the sites. This may include
hiking and other similar uses. Accessory uses such as interpretive centers
would be appropriate.
ARTERIAL ROAD: A street that provides for through traffic movement between and
around areas, with restricted access to abutting property and subject to
necessary control of entrances and exits.
ASPHALT OR CONCRETE PLANT: An establishment engaged in the manufacture, mixing,
batching or recycling of asphalt, asphaltic cement, cement or concrete
products.
ASSISTED LIVING MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING UNITS: Used or designed to be used by
older persons, persons with HIV, persons with disabilities or other persons
needing or desiring assistance with day to day living matters, but not
including group homes, group residential, hospitals or convalescent care
facilities. Typical uses include retirement communities in which housekeeping
services, common dining facilities, and recreational and social activities are
offered to residents.
AUDITORIUM OR STADIUM: An open, partially enclosed or fully enclosed facility
used or intended to be used primarily for spectator sports, entertainment
events, expositions and other public gatherings. Typical uses include
convention and exhibition halls, meeting halls, sports arenas and
amphitheaters.
AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM): A mechanized consumer banking device operated
by a bank or financial institution for the convenience of its customers,
whether outside or in an access controlled facility. ATMs located within a
building shall be considered accessory to the principal use unless the ATM is
likely to be an independent traffic generator.
AWNING: A rooflike mechanism, retractable in operation and covered with a
flexible textured material which projects from the wall of a building.
AWNING SIGN: An architectural projection from and supported by the exterior
wall of a building and composed of a covering of rigid or nonrigid materials
and/or fabric on a supporting framework that may be either permanent or
retractable, including such structures that are internally illuminated by
fluorescent or other light sources.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1419.gif]
BANK OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Establishments engaged in deposit banking.
Typical uses include commercial banks, savings institutions and credit unions.
"Banks and financial institutions" also include automated teller machines.
BANNER: A sign made of fabric, plastic, paper or other light, pliable material,
not enclosed in a rigid frame.
BAR OR TAVERN: An establishment in which the primary function is the sale and
serving of alcoholic and cereal malt beverages for consumption on the premises,
including establishments commonly known as cocktail lounges and nightclubs but
excluding those establishments that would otherwise be defined as an "adult
entertainment facility".
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having one-half (1/2) or more of its floor
to ceiling height below average grade of the ground immediately adjacent to its
walls. A basement shall be counted as a story for the purposes of height
measurement.
BASIC INDUSTRY: An establishment engaged in the basic processing and
manufacturing of materials or products predominately from extracted or raw
materials. Typical uses include distilleries, pulp processing and paper
products manufacturing; glass manufacturing; brick manufacturing; steelworks;
tanneries; acid manufacturing; cement, lime, gypsum, or plaster of Paris
manufacturing; fertilizer or chemical manufacturing; and petroleum refineries.
BATHHOUSE: An establishment or business which provides the services of baths of
all kinds, including all forms and methods of hydrotherapy, unless operated or
supervised by a medical or chiropractic practitioner or professional physical
therapist licensed by the state.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: An operator occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five (5) guestrooms
for rent, in operation for no more than ten (10) consecutive nights in a twelve
(12) month period and where breakfast is provided to the guests only. Bed and
breakfast establishments shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses or
food service establishments. In the agricultural district, a guesthouse/bed and
breakfast may incorporate the use of accessory buildings detached from the main
house providing they are suitable for human habitation. For purposes of this
definition, "guestroom" shall mean a sleeping room intended to serve not more
than two (2) guests per night.
BERM: A mound of earth, or the act of pushing earth into a mound.
BLOCK: A block is a tract of land bounded by public streets, or by a
combination of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way,
rivers and lakes and/or other lines of demarcation. A block may be located in
part within an incorporated city or village.
BUILDING: Any permanently fixed structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy. Except in the floodplain overlay district, the
terms building or structure do not include recreational vehicles or trailers.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A structure that:
   A.   Is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the principal use;
   B.   Contributes to the comfort, convenience or necessity of the principal
use; and
   C.   Is located on the same lot and in the same zoning district as the
principal use.
BUILDING AND ZONING OFFICE: The office of the zoning administrator of Jo
Daviess County from which the zoning administrator, and such deputies or
assistants as may be duly appointed by the county board to administer and
enforce the provisions of this zoning ordinance and make such determinations,
interpretations and orders as are necessary therefor, and require such plats,
plans, and other descriptive material in connection with applications for
permits as are necessary for him/her to judge compliance with this title in
accordance with regulations set forth in this title.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space, or from other structures, by a permanent roof and by
exterior or party walls, pierced only by windows and normal entrance or exit
doors.
BUILDING COVERAGE: The area of a lot covered by buildings or roofed areas, as
measured along the outside wall at ground level, and including all projections,
other than open porches, fire escapes, canopies and the first three feet (3')
of a roof overhang. Ground level parking, open recreation areas, patios and
plazas shall not be counted as building coverage.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building which is not connected to any other building or
structure.
BUILDING FACE OR WALL: All window and wall areas of a building in one plane or
elevation.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the curb level to the highest point
of the underside of the ceiling beams in the case of a flat roof; to the deck
line of a mansard roof; and to the mean level of the underside of the rafters
between the top of the ceiling joists and the ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel
roof. Chimneys, spires, towers, elevators or other accessory equipment,
penthouses, tanks or other similar projections shall not be included in
calculating the height. Freestanding chimney towers, poles and tanks, when
function is related to height, shall also not be included in calculating
building height.
BUILDING LINE: An imaginary line running parallel to a lot line, that is the
same distance from the lot line as the closest portion of a building on the
site.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building that does not conform to the regulations
of this title prescribing the use, required yards, coverage, height and
setbacks, minimum required spacing between buildings on a single lot, and
minimum required usable open space for the district in which such building is
located.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which a principal use is conducted.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building which is arranged, designed, used or intended
to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families or lodgers.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building not designed to be permanently affixed to any
given location.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and the location of same with respect to one another and lot lines.
This term includes regulations dealing with the following:
   A.   Lot area;
   B.   Lot area per dwelling unit;
   C.   Lot frontage;
   D.   Lot width;
   E.   Height;
   F.   Required yards;
   G.   Open space;
   H.   Gross floor area of buildings in relation to total lot area (floor area
ratio).
BUSINESS: Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials or
where services are offered for compensation.
BUSINESS COMPLEX: Two (2) or more commercial businesses on a lot or contiguous
lots with common access and parking.
BUSINESS COMPLEX SIGN: A sign which is designed to identify a business complex
where no single business identification and/or advertisement occupy more than
fifty percent (50%) of the sign area.
CAMP, INSTITUTIONAL: A camp operated by a service club, an educational
organization or a religious organization.
CAMP, RECREATIONAL: A tract of land, the principal use of which is to provide
outdoor recreational camping facilities for three (3) or more tents and/or
recreational vehicles for persons having a bona fide permanent place of abode.
A facility with permanent housing facilities (i.e., cabins) or with pads or
electric and water hookups for recreational vehicles or tents.
CAMP, TOURIST: A tract of land containing facilities for locating three (3) or
more tents or recreational vehicles for use only by travelers remaining not
more than fifteen (15) days whether or not a charge is made.
CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified
as including any parts of the plant cannabis sativa and including derivatives
or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or
not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) of greater than 0.3%
on a dry weight basis and all other naturally produced cannabinol derivatives,
whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, in accordance with the
Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. CANNABIS includes cannabis
concentrate and cannabis-infused products. CANNABIS shall not include
industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act.
CANOPY: Any structure attached to a building at the inner end and supported on
the other end, or a freestanding structure, with one or more supports, meant to
provide shelter from weather elements onto which signs may be affixed or
incorporated.
CAR WASH: An establishment primarily engaged in cleaning or detailing motor
vehicles, whether by self-service, automatic or by hand.
CARPORT: A roofed automobile shelter having at least two (2) open sides.
CATERING: An establishment engaged in the preparation of food and beverages for
consumption at another location. Catering shall not include the manufacturing
of food as defined in "food/bakery product".
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for burial or cremation of the dead,
whether human or animal, including a mausoleum or columbarium.
CENTRAL SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM: A sanitary sewer system that is designed to
provide treatment of sanitary sewage from multiple uses.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL): A sign on which copy is changed manually in the
field, i.e., reader boards with changeable letters or changeable pictorial
panels.
CHANGEABLE SIGN (AUTOMATIC): A sign such as electronically or electrically
controlled public service time, temperature and date sign, message center or
reader board, where different copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank.
CHILD: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age. For purposes of admission
to and residence in childcare institutions and maternity centers, the term also
means any person under twenty one (21) years of age who is referred by a parent
or guardian, including any agency having responsibility for a person pursuant
to act 405, juvenile court act of 1987 1 .
CHILDCARE FACILITY: Any person, group of persons, agency, association or
organization, whether established for gain or otherwise who or which receives
or arranges for care or placement of one or more children, unrelated to the
operator of the facility, apart from parents, with or without the transfer of
the right to custody in any facility as defined in the child care act of 1969 2
, established and maintained for the care of children.
CHILDCARE INSTITUTION: A childcare facility where more than five (5) children
are received and maintained for the purpose of providing them with care or
training or both. The term "childcare institution" includes residential
schools, primarily serving ambulatory handicapped children, and those operating
a full calendar year, but does not include such facilities excluded from the
definition of "Child Care Institution" as cited in the Illinois child care act
of 1969 3 .
CHURCH BULLETIN BOARD: A sign attached to the exterior of a church or located
elsewhere on church premises and used to indicate the services and/or other
activities of the church, and including the church name.
CHURCHES, CHAPELS, TEMPLES AND SYNAGOGUES: A site used by a bona fide religious
group primarily or exclusively for religious worship and related religious
services, including a place of worship or retreat site. This definition shall
not include church camps or other types of camps as are defined herein by
"camp, institutional".
CLOSED CUP FLASHPOINT: The lowest temperature at which a combustible liquid,
under prescribed conditions will give off a flammable vapor which will burn
immediately.
CLUB, PRIVATE: A use providing meeting, recreational, or social facilities for
a private association, primarily for use by members and guests. Typical uses
include private social club, lodges, and fraternal organizations.
COLLECTOR ROAD: A street that provides for traffic movement between arterial
roads and local streets, with direct access to abutting property.
COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY: An institution of higher education offering
undergraduate or graduate degrees.
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: The C commercial district as identified in chapter 3,
article D of this title.
COMMUNICATION TOWER: Commercial AM/FM radio, television, microwave and cellular
telephone transmission towers and accessory equipment and buildings. To include
any or all electronic communication.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A building or place in which members of a community may
gather for social, educational or cultural activities.
COMPOSTING: The biological treatment process by which microorganisms decompose
the organic fraction of waste, process of composting.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Includes the composite of the functional and geographic
elements of the comprehensive plan of Jo Daviess County, Illinois, or any
future version thereof, or any segment thereof in the form of plans, maps,
charts, and textual materials, as adopted by the county board.
CONSTRUCTION SALES AND SERVICE: An establishment engaged in the retail or
wholesale sale of materials used in the construction of buildings or other
structures, and the outdoor storage of construction equipment or materials on
lots other than construction sites. Typical uses include lumberyards, home
improvement centers, lawn and garden supply stores, electrical, plumbing, air
conditioning, and heating supply stores, swimming pool sales, construction
contractors' storage yards and construction equipment rental establishments.
CONTIGUOUS GROWTH AREA: An area contiguous to a municipality in which new
development is determined to be both desirable and sustainable. The boundaries
of the contiguous growth area (CGA) shall be as defined in a legal description
set forth in a joint planning agreement, mutually agreed to by both the county
and the municipality. Where no such joint planning agreement exists, the
boundaries of the contiguous growth area shall be defined as the area
surrounding a municipality within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the
corporate limits of the municipality.
CONTRACTOR SHOP AND OFFICE: A building and/or property where materials and
equipment used by construction contractors are stored and repaired. The
contractor's office may also be located within the building or on the same
property.
COPY: The wording or graphics on a sign surface.
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: A facility providing housing and care for individuals
confined for violations of law.
COUNTY: Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
COUNTY BOARD: The county board of Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
COUNTY ENGINEER: The registered professional engineer as appointed by the
county board as head of the highway department of Jo Daviess County or his
designated representative.
CREMATORY: A furnace, including any building or structure housing such a
furnace, for the burning of dead bodies.
CULTURAL SERVICE: A facility providing cultural and educational services to the
public. Typical uses include museums, art museums, observatories, planetariums,
botanical gardens, arboretums, zoos and aquariums.
CUTOFF: A cutoff outdoor lighting fixture emits no more than two and one-half
percent (21/2%) of its light above ninety degrees (90°) and ten percent (10%)
above eighty degrees (80°) from horizontal. A standard IESNA definition.
CUTOFF, FULL: A full cutoff outdoor lighting fixture emits zero percent (0%) of
its light above ninety degrees (90°) and ten percent (10%) above eighty degrees
(80°) from horizontal. A standard IESNA definition.
CUTOFF, SEMI: A semicutoff outdoor lighting fixture emits no more than five
percent (5%) of its light above ninety degrees (90°) and twenty percent (20%)
above eighty degrees (80°) from horizontal. A standard IESNA definition.
DAYCARE CENTER: Any childcare facility which regularly provides care for less
than twenty four (24) hours per day for:
   A.   More than eight (8) children in a family home, or
   B.   More than three (3) children in a facility other than a family home
which is licensed by the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services
under the Illinois Child Care Act of 1969 4 .
DAYCARE HOMES: Family homes which receive more than three (3), up to a maximum
of eight (8), children for less than twenty four (24) hours a day. The number
includes the natural or adopted children and all persons under the age of
twelve (12). Such daycare homes shall be licensed by the Illinois Department of
Children and Family Services under the Illinois Child Care Act of 1969 5  and
allowed as a home occupation.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound calibrated in
decibels.
DECISION MAKER OR DECISION MAKING BODY: The entity (County Board, County
department head or board) that is authorized to grant final approval or denial
of an application or permit required under this title.
DEDICATE, DEDICATION: Transfer of ownership of right-of-way or other parcel of
land or improvement to a public or private entity without compensation.
DETACHED ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (DADU): A self-contained housing unit that
typically has their own kitchen, bedroom(s), bathroom(s) and living space,
which is a freestanding structure on the same parcel as the principal dwelling
unit.
DEVELOPMENT: Any subdivision of land; any consolidation or accumulation of
tracts of land; any material change in the use or appearance of any parcel of
land; any activity that affects lot lines, easement locations, number of lots,
setbacks, locations of structures, dedications of streets or utilities; or the
act of building structures or improvements on land.
DIRECTOR OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH: The Director of Environmental Health of the
Jo Daviess County Health Department or his/her designated representative.
DISTRICT: A section or part of the unincorporated portion of the County within
which certain uniform regulations and requirements or various combinations
thereof apply under the provisions of this title.
DOORWAY IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A nonilluminated sign which is limited to the
name, address, and number of the building, institution, or person and to the
activity carried on in the building or institution, or the occupancy of the
person; provided, that the lettering, excluding numbers, of each sign shall not
exceed two (2) square feet.
DRAINAGEWAY, IMPROVED: A portion of a right-of-way or easement used or intended
principally for storm, surface or subsurface drainage which meets or exceeds
the design and construction standards for public drainageways.
DRAINAGEWAY, UNIMPROVED: A portion of a right-of-way or easement whose use or
intended principal use is storm, surface or subsurface drainage which does not
meet or exceed the design and construction standards for public drainageways.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment which accommodates patrons in motor
vehicles from which the occupants may watch, purchase, etc.
DRIVEWAY: A private accessway for motor vehicles between a public or private
street and one or more structures or off street parking areas.
DUPLEX: The use of a single lot for two (2) dwelling units within a single
building.
DWELLING: A building designed or used principally for residential occupancy,
but not including hotels, motels, boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes,
mobile homes or trailers.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing three (3) or more
dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING UNIT: A building or portion of a building that contains living
facilities for not more than one family and that includes provisions for
sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation. A dwelling unit shall not include
rooms or suites customarily associated with hotels, motels, tourist cabins and
other places providing temporary overnight lodging.
EASEMENT: That portion or quantity of land set aside in which a liberty,
privilege or advantage in land without profit is dedicated and is distinct from
fee ownership of the land, is granted either to the public, a particular person
or a combination of both.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER: A sign on which the copy changes automatically on a
lamp bank or through mechanical means, such as electrical or electronic time
and temperature units.
ELECTRONIC STANDARD OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURE/BILLBOARDS: Billboards that
can be updated electronically. Usually a large projection spectacular or LED
sign with changing advertising and internal illumination.
ENGINEER: A professional engineer licensed in the state of Illinois.
ENLARGED: To make or become greater in quantity or dimensions; to extend in
limits, breadth, or size; to expand; to broaden.
ERECT: The act of placing or affixing a component of a structure upon the
ground or upon another such component.
ERECT SIGN: To build, construct, reconstruct, attach, hang, rehang, alter,
place, affix, enlarge, move or relocate and includes the painting and
repainting of existing sign structures.
EROSION CONTROL PLAN: A plan showing a functional means of controlling runoff
to prevent sediments from leaving the project site and causing siltation in
sewers, lakes, streams or adjacent properties.
ESCROW AGENT: A title company, bank, savings and loan association, trust
company, attorney or other person, company, or agency approved by the county
board to act as escrow agent.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, or other similar
material is cut into, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated or
bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting from said act.
EXISTING BUILDING: Any building erected prior to the adoption of the ordinance
or for which a legal building permit has been issued.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavating or filling.
EXPANSION: The act of becoming larger; increasing in dimensions or the state of
being expanded; enlargement; distention; dilatation.
FACADE: The front or main part of a building facing a street as measured from
the ground elevation to the head beam.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption or a group
of not more than four (4) persons not so related, together with their domestic
servants or gratuitous guests, maintain a common household in a dwelling unit.
A family may include not more than two (2) roomers or boarders whether or not
gratuitous or not gratuitous. A family may include the occupants of a foster
family or a "group home" as defined herein.
FARM TOURS: The act of viewing and/or participating in active agricultural
operations. Typical farm tours may include, but are not limited to, educational
programs, trails, on farm animal petting areas and historical agriculture
exhibits.
FENCE: An enclosure or barrier such as wooden posts, wire, iron, etc., used as
a boundary, means of protection, privacy screening or confinement, but not
including hedges, shrubs, trees or other natural growth.
FENCE, AGRICULTURAL: A fence used in conjunction with an agricultural use as
defined by the Illinois fencing law.
FENCE HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the side of the fence that is
exterior to the property or from the lowest adjacent ground level to the top of
the fence material. Fence material shall include the support posts and any
material attached to said posts. In the case of wire fencing, height shall be
measured by the width of the material used, providing that when installed, the
material is directly adjacent to the ground level.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, including entrance and exit gates where each one foot
(1') wide segment for the full length and height of the fence contains at least
seventy percent (70%) open space which affords a direct view through the fence
or if said fence has a height of not more than four feet (4') tall may contain
not less than fifty percent (50%) open space.
FENCE, PRIVACY: A solid fence a minimum of six feet (6') in height.
FENCE, SHARP POINTED: A barbed fence, a fence with spikes, other sharp points
or a razor blade fence.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including solid entrance and exit gates, where each one
foot (1') segment for the full length and height of the fence contains less
than seventy percent (70%) open spaces or if said fence has a height of not
more than four feet (4'), contains less than fifty percent (50%) open space.
FENCE, WIRE: A fence whose principal material is wire. This includes, but is
not limited to, chainlink fences.
FERTILIZER DISTRIBUTION PLANT: Premises or buildings where agricultural
fertilizer products are stored, mixed and blended and sold at retail or
wholesale, but not including the manufacture of such products.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other material is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
mechanical means to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting
therefrom.
FILLING STATION (SERVICE STATION): Any business which dispenses, or is designed
to dispense, gasoline and/or oil for use in motor vehicles or boats.
FINAL GRADE, FINISH GRADE: The vertical location of the ground or paving
surface after the grading work is completed in accordance with the site
development plan.
FINANCIAL ASSURANCE: Reasonable assurance from a creditworthy party, examples
of which include a surety bond, trust instrument, cash escrow, or irrevocable
letter of credit.
FLOOR AREA: For nonresidential buildings or buildings containing both
residential and nonresidential uses, "floor area" means the sum of the gross
horizontal area of all floors of the building measured from the exterior faces
of the exterior walls. For residential buildings, "floor area" shall mean the
gross horizontal area of all floors in a dwelling measured from the external
faces of the exterior walls. Garages, basements and open porches shall be
excluded when measuring residential floor area.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained by dividing the gross floor area
of a building or buildings by the total area of the parcel of land on which the
building or buildings are located.
FOOD/BAKERY PRODUCT: A use engaged in the manufacture of food and food
products, including manufacturing nonretail bakeries, canning facilities and
creameries.
FOOD STORE: An establishment where food and prepackaged beverages are sold on
site for consumption off site. A limited amount of food preparation on site may
also be allowed, such as a delicatessen or bakery.
FOOT-CANDLE: A unit of luminance on a surface that is everywhere one foot (1')
from a uniform point source of light on one candle and equal to one lumen per
square foot.
FOOTING: The, usually concrete, ground engaging portion of a structure's
foundation. The footing's purpose is to transfer the weight of the structure to
the soil so that the structure, as built, remains vertically and horizontally
stable. The footing would normally outline the footprint of the structure.
FOSTER FAMILY HOME: A facility for childcare in residences of families who
receive no more than five (5) children unrelated to them, unless all of the
children are of common parentage, for the purposes of providing family care and
training for the children on a full time basis; except the director of the
department of children and family services, pursuant to departmental
regulations may waive the limit of five (5) children unrelated to an adoptive
family for good cause and only to facilitate an adoptive placement. The
family's own children, under eighteen (18), shall be included in determining
the maximum number of children served. The term "foster family home" includes
homes receiving children from any state operated institution for childcare or
from any agency established by a municipality or other political subdivision of
the state of Illinois authorized to provide care for children outside their
homes. The types of foster family homes are as defined and cited in the
Illinois child care act of 1969 6 .
FREE BURNING: Implies a rate of combustion described by a material which burns
actively and easily supports combustion.
FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by truck, rail or
air is processed for continued shipment by truck, rail or air.
FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave, measuring the
pitch of the resulting sound.
FRONTAGE: The length of any one property line of a premises that abuts a public
street right of way. The frontage of a lot abutting more than one street shall
be calculated separately for each street.
FRONTAGE (Of A Block): All of the property fronting on one side of a street. If
the street is a dead end, the frontage is measured to the end of the street.
FRONTAGE (Of A Lot): The linear measure between lot lines along a street,
roadway or other public way.
FRONTAGE, STREET: The length of a lot line that abuts a public street right of
way. The frontage of a lot abutting more than one street shall be calculated
separately for each street.
FUNERAL HOME: An establishment engaged in preparing the human deceased for
burial, entombment or cremation and arranging and managing funerals.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building which is intended and used to store private motor vehicles owned or
used by members of the family or families residing upon the premises.
GAS AND FUEL SALES/STORAGE: The use of a site for bulk storage, distribution
and sales of flammable liquid, gas or solid fuel, excluding storage that is
clearly ancillary to an allowed principal use on the site such as automotive or
truck stop service stations as defined herein.
GLARE: The sensation produced by a bright source within the visual field that
is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted to cause
annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility. The
magnitude of glare depends on such factors as the size, position, brightness of
the source, and on the brightness level to which the eyes are adapted.
GOLF COURSE: A public, semipublic or private grounds over which the game of
golf is played including accessory buildings and land uses incidental to the
game and consisting of an eighteen (18) hole golf course with at least sixty
(60) acres of land for each standard nine (9) hole course; and at least twenty
five (25) acres of land for each nine (9) hole "par 3" course.
GOVERNMENT SERVICE: Buildings or facilities owned or operated by a government
entity and providing services for the public, excluding utilities and park and
recreation services. Typical uses include administrative offices of government
agencies, utility billing offices, township halls, and township road
maintenance buildings and yards.
GRADE: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building or structure.
GRADING: The act of excavating or filling or combination thereof and shall
include the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
GREENHOUSE, NURSERY: An establishment where flowers, trees, seeds, plants,
plant stock and other products that are commonly used for landscaping and
gardening are grown and sold.
GROUND LEVEL: Immediate surrounding grade.
GROUP HOME: A childcare facility which provides care for not more than five (5)
children placed by and under the supervision of a licensed child welfare agency
with these homes being owned or rented, staffed, maintained and otherwise
operated by the agency. Group home also means a dwelling providing shelter to
not more than five (5) unrelated persons who are handicapped as defined herein.
GROUP RESIDENTIAL: The use of a site for occupancy by groups of more than five
(5) persons, not defined as a family, on a weekly or longer basis. Typical uses
include fraternity or sorority houses, dormitories, residence halls, and
boarding houses. The term "group residential" does not include the term "group
home".
GUESTROOM: For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this title regulating
bed and breakfast establishments, "guestrooms" shall mean a sleeping room
intended to serve not more than two (2) transient guests per night.
HANDICAP: With respect to a person, a physical or mental impairment which
substantially limits one or more major life activities; a record of such an
impairment; or being regarded as having such an impairment. This term does not
include current, illegal use or an addiction to a controlled substance as
defined in section 102 of the controlled substances act (21 USC 902). An
individual shall not be considered to have a handicap solely because that
individual is a transvestite. As used in this definition:
   A.   "Physical or mental impairment" includes:
1. Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfiguration, or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory;
genitourinary; speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
2. Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic
brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness and specific learning disabilities.
The term "physical or mental impairment" includes, but is not limited to, such
diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and hearing impairments,
cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis,
cancer, heart disease, diabetes, human immunodeficiency virus infection, mental
retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction (other than addiction caused by
current, illegal controlled substance) and alcoholism.
   B.   "Major life activities" means taking care of oneself, performing manual
tasks, walking, seeing, speaking, breathing, learning and working.
   C.   "Has a record of such an impairment" means has a history of or has been
classified as having a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits
one or more major life activities.
HAZARDOUS OPERATION: Activities that present the potential for serious hazards
to human life and health. Typical uses include, but are not limited to,
arsenals, atomic reactors, explosives and fireworks manufacture, hazardous
waste disposal, medical waste disposal and radioactive waste handling.
HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES: Any substances or materials that, by reason of their
toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive or otherwise injurious properties, may be
detrimental or harmful to the health of any person handling or otherwise coming
into contact with such material or substance.
HEALTH CLUB: A facility where members or nonmembers use equipment or space for
the purpose of physical exercise. Said facilities may be located both indoors
and outdoors.
HEARING: Public hearing.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the surrounding grade to
the highest point of a sign.
HELIPORT OR HELIPAD: An area, either on the ground or on a building, used as a
landing pad for helicopters to pick up or discharge passengers or cargo.
HISTORIC SITE: Any area of particular historical significance as determined by
federal, state or local officials having jurisdiction over said areas. This
includes interests in land, which has been acquired for the restoration,
preservation and enhancement of historical significance.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or profession customarily carried on by an
occupant of a dwelling unit as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to
the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes.
HOME OFFICE: An incidental and subordinate area in a residential dwelling unit
used solely by the occupants of the dwelling unit for limited business
activities including making and receiving phone calls; paper and electronic
communications; word processing; data analysis and manipulation. The occupants
of the dwelling unit may conduct these activities on behalf of an employer or
as a self-employed proprietor.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An incorporated, nonprofit organization operating
under recorded land agreements through which each lot owner or homeowner in a
planned district or other described land area is automatically a member and
each lot is automatically subject to a charge for a proportionate share of the
expenses for the activities of the organization, such as maintaining common
property.
HOSPITAL: An institution that:
   A.   Offers service more intensive than those required for room, board,
personal services and general nursing care;
   B.   Offers facilities and beds for use beyond twenty four (24) hours by
individuals requiring diagnosis, treatment, or care for illness, injury,
deformity, infirmity, abnormality, disease, or pregnancy; and
   C.   Regularly makes available at least clinical laboratory services,
diagnostic X-ray services, and treatment facilities for surgery or obstetrical
care, or other definitive medical treatment of similar extent. Hospitals may
include offices for medical and dental personnel, central service facilities
such as pharmacies, medical laboratories and other related uses.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: An establishment used, maintained or advertised as a place
where sleeping accommodations, in rooms without individual kitchens, are
supplied for short term rent to transient guests. Such establishments provide
customary hotel services such as a central desk, maid service and laundry of
linens used in the lodging rooms.
HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE: Waste that is considered hazardous because of the
way if affects humans or reacts with other chemicals. Waste is usually grouped
into the following five (5) categories: caustic, explosive, infectious, toxic
and radioactive.
ILLEGAL SIGNS: A sign which contravenes this title, or a nonconforming sign for
which a permit is required under a previous ordinance was not obtained.
INCOMPATIBLE USES: A use or service which is incapable of direct association
with certain other uses because it is contradictory, incongruous or discordant.
INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX: Two (2) or more industrial establishments on a lot or
contiguous lots with common access and parking.
INDUSTRIAL HEMP: The plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of that plant,
whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of
not more than 0.3 percent on a dry weight basis that has been cultivated under
a license issued under the Industrial Hemp Act or is otherwise lawfully present
in this State, and includes any intermediate or finished product made or
derived from industrial hemp.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which does not have a current license
sticker or which for a period of at least six (6) months, the engine, wheels or
other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels, or other parts
have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own power. Inoperable motor vehicle shall
not include a motor vehicle, which has been rendered temporarily incapable of
being driven under its own motor power for no more than thirty (30) days in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations. Inoperable motor
vehicle shall also include parts of motor vehicles that are scattered or
stacked.
INTEGRATED CENTER: A use combining office and warehousing; office and light
assembly; or office, warehousing and light assembly activities within the same
building. Buildings within integrated centers typically have office storefronts
on one side of the structure and loading docks or roll up doors on the other
side. Loading and service areas are screened from view of public rights of way,
public recreation facilities (e.g., parks, golf courses, etc.) and lower
intensity zoning districts. Integrated centers may have more than one use
within the same building and may include retail sales of merchandise as an
accessory use.
INTENSE BURNING: Implies a rate of combustion described by a material that
burns with a high degree of activity and is consumed rapidly.
INTENSITY (Of Uses And Districts): References to less restrictive or more
restrictive zoning districts refer to the base zoning districts established by
chapter 3 of this title and represent a progression from the AG district as the
least intensive zoning district to the I district as the most intensive zoning
district. Overlay districts are not included in the zoning district hierarchy.
References to less intensive or more intensive uses refer to the zoning
districts in which such uses are first permitted. Use "X" is to be construed as
more intensive than use "Y" if use "X" is first permitted by right in a zoning
district that is more intensive than the district in which use "Y" is first
permitted by right.
INTERCHANGE: The system of interconnecting ramps between two (2) or more
intersecting guideways, rail lines, highways, and so on that are grade
separated.
INTERIOR PROPERTY LINE: Property lines other than those forming a dedicated
public right of way.
INTERPRETIVE CENTER: A facility used for dissemination of knowledge of natural
or cultural heritage and located in connection to cultural, historic or natural
sites.
INTERSECTION: The point at which two (2) or more guideways or roadways meet.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: A facility, either state licensed or not, housing dogs,
cats or other household pets where grooming, breeding, boarding, training or
selling of animals is conducted as a business, or the rendering of surgical and
medical treatment is provided and having no limitation on overnight
accommodations of such animals.
KENNEL, PRIVATE: Any building or buildings or land designed or arranged for the
care of dogs and cats or other household pets belonging to the owner of the
principal use, kept for the purposes of show, hunting, or as pets.
LANDFILL: A facility permitted by the Illinois environmental protection agency
for the disposal of waste on land meeting the requirements of the resource
conservation and recovery act, PL 94-580, and regulations thereunder, and
without creating nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, by confining
the refuse of the smallest practical volume and covering it with a layer of
earth at the conclusion of each day's operation, or by such other methods and
intervals as the Illinois pollution control board may provide by regulations.
LANDSCAPE AND NURSERY CONTRACTOR: A business engaged in installation of plant
material stock, including wholesale and/or retail of such plant stock and other
landscaping materials.
LANDSCAPE WASTE: All accumulation of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree
limbs and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines and trees.
LANDSCAPE WASTE COMPOSTING AND MULCHING FACILITY: An establishment for the
composting and mulching of waste materials accumulated as the result of the
care of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees and not accessory to general
agriculture as set forth in chapter 3, article A of this title.
LAUNDRY PLANT: An establishment that is primarily for cleaning of laundry, rugs
and similar materials. This definition does not include laundromats or dry
cleaning pick up stations.
LIBRARY: A publicly operated establishment housing a collection of books,
magazines, audio and video tapes, computers and other material for borrowing
and use by the public.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light falling where it is not wanted or needed, typically
across property boundaries. This is the most common citizen complaint
associated with outdoor lighting.
LIVESTOCK: Animals kept for use on an agricultural property or raised for sale
and profit.
LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT FACILITY: Any animal feeding operation, livestock shelter,
or on farm milking and accompanying milk handling area. Two (2) or more
livestock management facilities under common ownership, where the facilities
are not separated by a minimum distance of one-fourth (1/4) mile, and that
share a common livestock waste handling shall be considered a single livestock
management facility. A livestock management facility shall not include
educational institutions, livestock pasture operations, where animals are
housed on a temporary basis such as county and state fairs, livestock shows,
racetracks, and horse breeding, foaling farms, and market holding facilities.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or berth on the same lot with a building, or
contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and which abuts
upon a street or other appropriate means of access.
LOCAL STREET: A street that provides direct access to abutting land and local
traffic movement.
LOGO: A letter, character, or symbol used to represent a person, corporation or
business enterprise.
LOT: A quantity of land described with such specificity that its location and
boundaries may be established and which is designated by its owner or developer
as land to be conveyed, used and developed as a unit including any easements.
LOT AREA, GROSS: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes
through the front, side and rear lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets; or a
lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if
straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the
foremost points of the lot meet at an angle less than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE (THROUGH LOT): A lot which has a pair of opposite lot
lines along two (2) substantially parallel streets.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot whose side lines do not abut upon any street.
LOT LINE: A line dividing one lot from another or from the street right of way.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which is along the existing or
dedicated street or public way. The owner of a corner lot may select either
street lot line as the front lot line.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is
approximately parallel to the front lot line. If the rear lot line is less than
ten feet (10') in length within the lot or if the lot forms a point at the
rear, the rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length
within the lot, parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been
duly recorded in the office of the Jo Daviess County recorder, or a lot or
parcel described by metes and bounds, the description of which has been
recorded or any parcel of land, whether or not part of a subdivision, that has
been officially recorded by a deed in the office of the Jo Daviess County
recorder, provided such lot was of a size that met the minimum dimensions for
lots in the district in which it was located at the time of recording, or was
recorded prior to the effective date of the Jo Daviess County zoning ordinance
(March 1, 1995), or has been otherwise approved.
LOT, TRAILER: The area of land assigned to a travel trailer or mobile home in a
tourist park or a mobile home in a mobile home park.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between side lot lines as measured along the
required front setback line. In the case of a corner lot either side along a
public street may be designated as the front yard.
LOT, ZONING: A parcel or tract of land used, developed, or built upon as a unit
under single ownership or control. Said parcel or tract may consist of one or
more contiguous lots of record, one or more contiguous portions of a lot or
lots of record, or any combination thereof.
LUMEN: Unit of luminous flux; used to measure the amount of light emitted by
lamps.
LUMEN, INITIAL: Amount of luminous flux emitted by a lighting fixture at
initial installation. Initial lumens are usually listed by the manufacturer.
Example: A one hundred (100) watt incandescent light bulb emits approximately
one thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens.
LUMEN, TOTAL INITIAL: Derived by summing the individual initial lumens output
for all the lighting fixtures of an installation. For example, six (6) fixtures
with ten thousand (10,000) initial lumens output per fixture would equal sixty
thousand (60,000) total initial lumens.
LUMINANCE: Amount of luminous flux per unit area in the imperial system and is
equal to one lumen per square foot. Luminance is measured in foot-candles. The
metric system uses the lux. One foot-candle equals approximately nine hundred
twenty nine thousandths (0.0929) lux.
LUMINANCE LEVEL, MAINTAINED: Lamps emit less luminous flux over time and
therefore luminance levels of an installation will decrease over time. The
maintained luminance level is usually determined as a percentage of the initial
luminance level. The percentage is different for the various types of lamp
sources. This number is reported as a part of the photometric plan.
MANSARD ROOF: A roof having two (2) slopes on all four (4) sides, with the
lower slope almost vertical, and the upper almost horizontal.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: An area or tract of land where two (2) or more
manufactured housing units, mobile homes or mobile home/manufactured housing
spaces are rented or held out for rent.
MANUFACTURED HOME, RESIDENTIAL DESIGN: A manufactured housing unit placed upon
a permanent foundation and which contains exterior elements commonly found on
other conventionally built single-family detached dwellings. Such housing unit
has residential character, manufactured features, architectural details,
covered entry, horizontal lap siding, window elements, front porch, not less
than twenty four feet (24') in width, landscaping, permanent masonry
foundation, pitched roof.
MANUFACTURED HOME SALES: An establishment primarily engaged in the display and
sale of mobile homes or manufactured housing units.
MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a manufactured home park that
can accommodate one manufactured housing unit and that provides necessary
utility services.
MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT: A transportable, factory built structure that is
manufactured in accordance with the federal manufactured housing construction
and safety standards act of 1974 (42 USC section 5401) and that is designed to
be used as a single dwelling unit. (Previously referred to as a mobile home.) A
manufactured housing unit is constructed to be towed on its own chassis
(comprised of frame and wheels) from place of construction to location.
MANUFACTURING AND ASSEMBLY: Establishment engaged in the manufacture,
predominately from previously prepared materials, of finished products or
parts, including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of
such products, and incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such
products, but excluding "basic industry".
MARINA: A facility for the storage (wet or dry), launching and mooring of
boats.
MARQUEE: Any permanent, rooflike structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
MASSAGE PARLOR: An establishment which has a fixed place of business having a
source of income or compensation sixty percent (60%) or more of which is
derived from the practice of any method of pressure on or friction against or
stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulation of
external parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any
mechanical electric apparatus or appliances with or without supplementary aids
such as rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotion,
ointment or other similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
massage. Under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her
behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or gratuity; provided
that this term shall not include any establishment operated or supervised by a
medical or chiropractic practitioner or professional physical therapist
licensed by the state of Illinois.
MEDICAL SERVICE: An establishment providing therapeutic, preventive, or
corrective personal treatment services on an outpatient basis by physicians,
dentists, and other practitioners of the medical or healing arts, and the
provision of medical testing and analysis services. Typical uses include
clinics and offices for doctors of medicine, dentists, chiropractors,
osteopaths, optometrists; blood banks and medical laboratories.
MICRON: A unit of length, equal to one thousandth part of one millimeter.
MILITARY/PARAMILITARY FACILITY: A facility used or intended to be used for the
purpose of military or paramilitary training activities.
MINING OR QUARRYING: The extraction of metallic and nonmetallic minerals
excluding oil or natural gas. Typical uses include sand and gravel pit
operations, quarries and mines.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable unit, which is eight (8) body feet or more
in width and is thirty two (32) body feet or more in length, and constructed to
be towed on its own chassis (comprised of frame and wheels) from the place of
construction to location or subsequent locations, and designed to be used
without a permanent foundation and connected to utilities for year round
occupancy with or without a permanent foundation. These homes were constructed
prior to June 15, 1976, when the federal preemptive HUD code became effective.
Mobile homes have not been constructed since this date.
MOBILE HOME PARK: See the definition of Manufactured Home Park.
MOBILE HOME SALES: See the definition of Manufactured Home Sales.
MODELING STUDIO: A use or business which provides for a fee or compensation the
services of modeling on premises for the purpose of reproducing the human body
wholly or partially in the nude by means of photography, painting, sketching,
drawing or otherwise. This does not apply to public or private schools where
persons are enrolled in a class.
MODERATE BURNING: Implies a rate of combustion described by a material which
supports combustion and is consumed slowly as it burns.
MODULAR HOME: A factory fabricated dwelling built in accordance with the
requirements of all technical codes adopted in section
7-1-3 of this code and the requirements of the Illinois department of public
health, and shall be subject to the same standards as site built homes. It may
consist of two (2) or more components that can be separated when transported
but designed to be joined into one integral unit on a permanent foundation
ready for occupancy except for assembly operations and finishing. Modular homes
are not considered as mobile homes, manufactured homes, or travel trailers.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for transportation
of people and goods along streets, alleys and other public ways.
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL: The use of a site for three (3) or more dwelling
units within a single building. Typical uses include triplexes, fourplexes,
apartments and residential condominiums and townhouses.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Watercourses formed in the topography of the earth prior to
any manmade changes.
NONCONFORMITY: A nonconforming existing lot, nonconforming use, nonconforming
sign or nonconforming structure that does not conform to regulations of the
district in which it is located.
NONPARTICIPATING PROPERTY: Real property that is not a participating property.
NONPARTICIPATING RESIDENCE: A residence that is located on nonparticipating
property and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for
a permit to develop the commercial wind energy facility or the commercial solar
energy facility is filed with the county.
NOXIOUS MATTER: That which is capable of causing injury to living organisms by
chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects on the physical
or economic well being of human beings.
NURSING HOME: A home for the aged, chronically ill or incurable person in which
three (3) or more persons not of the immediate family are received, kept or
provided with food and shelter or care for compensation; but not including
hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to the diagnosis
and treatment of the sick or injured.
OCCUPIED COMMUNITY BUILDING: Any one or more of the following buildings that is
existing and occupied on the date that the application for a permit to develop
the commercial wind energy facility or the commercial solar energy facility is
filed with the county: a school, place of worship, day care facility, public
library, or community center.
OCTAVE BAND: A term denoting all frequencies between any given frequency and
double that frequency.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals.
ODOR THRESHOLD: The minimum concentration of odorous matter in the air that can
be detected as an odor.
ODOROUS MATTER: Material, gas, liquid or solids that yield an odor.
OFFICE, GENERAL: An establishment providing executive, management,
administrative or professional services, but not medical or dental services or
the sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a permitted use. Typical uses
include real estate, insurance, property management, investment, employment,
travel, advertising, law, architecture, design, engineering, accounting and
similar offices.
OIL OR GAS DRILLING/REFINING: The subsurface extraction of oil or natural gas
or the distillation of ethyl alcohol (ethanol) from agricultural crops and the
processing of byproducts from such distillation.
OPEN SPACE: Any parcel or area of land or water essentially unimproved or
otherwise devoid of buildings or other structures and paved areas, and set
aside, dedicated, designated, or reserved for public or private use or
enjoyment of owners and occupants of land adjoining or neighboring such open
space.
OPEN SPACE, PRIVATE: Open space within a development that is contained within
individually owned lots and which is designed and intended primarily for the
private uses of residents or occupants of the lot on which the private open
space exists. Private open space shall also include land within a subdivision
or development which is owned and maintained by a homeowners' association.
Private open space does not include areas utilized for streets, alleys,
driveways, private roads, or off street parking or loading areas. Private open
space may include recreational areas such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
shuffleboard courts, etc.
OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC: Any publicly owned open area including, but not limited to,
the following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, waterways, parkways and
streets. Public open space does not include areas utilized for streets, alleys,
driveways, private roads, or off street parking or loading areas. Public open
space may include recreational areas such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
shuffleboard courts, etc.
OPERATOR, BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS: The owner of a bed and breakfast
establishment, or the owner's agent, who is required to reside in the bed and
breakfast establishment, or on contiguous property.
OPERATOR, WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM OR FACILITY (WECS): The entity
responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance of the WECS SYSTEM OR
FACILITY, including any third-party subcontractors.
OUTDOOR LIGHTING FIXTURE: The complete lighting assembly less the support
assembly. Such devices shall include, but are not limited to, lights used for
parking lot lighting, roadway lighting, buildings and structures, recreational
areas, landscape lighting, billboards and other signs (advertising or other),
product display area lighting, building overhangs and open canopies.
OWNER: Any person, firm, association, private corporation or quasi-public
corporation or combination of any of these or other legal entity having
sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided or
developed to commence and maintain proceedings under the provisions of this
title.
OWNER, SIGN: A person recorded as such on official records and including the
duly authorized agent or notary, a purchase lessee; any person having a vested
or contingent interest in the property or business in question.
OWNER, WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS) OR FACILITY: A person with a direct
ownership interest in a commercial wind energy facility or a commercial solar
energy facility, or both, regardless of whether the person is involved in
acquiring the necessary rights, permits, and approvals or otherwise planning
for the construction and operation of the facility, and at the
PARCEL: All contiguous land used or legally described as a single unit.
PARENT PARCEL: One parcel of land with a legal description and parcel number,
from which a portion is subdivided as a new separate parcel; except when there
is one metes and bounds legal description for more than one numbered parcel. In
such case, all numbered parcels included in the one metes and bounds legal
description shall be considered to be one parent parcel.
PARKING AREA, OFF STREET PARKING LOT: An area not on a public right of way,
exclusive of driveways, which is used for the parking of motor vehicles. For
the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces in a lot, all areas used
for parking under unified control, the same or contiguous parcels of land shall
be considered as one lot.
PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL: An area used or intended to be used for the off street
parking of operable motor vehicles on a temporary basis, other than as
accessory parking to a principal use.
PARKING SPACE: An enclosed or unenclosed area permanently reserved for the
temporary storage of one passenger vehicle and appropriately connected with a
street or alley by a driveway affording adequate ingress and egress.
PARKS AND RECREATION AREA: A publicly or privately owned park, playground or
community facility that provides opportunities for active or passive
recreational activities.
PARKWAY: The unpaved land within a street right of way which is located between
the back of the curb and the right of way.
PARTICIPATING PROPERTY: Real property that is the subject of a written
agreement between a facility owner and the owner of the real property that
provides the facility owner an easement, option, lease, or license to use the
real property for the purpose of constructing a commercial wind energy
facility, a commercial solar energy facility, or supporting facilities.
"Participating property" also includes real property that is owned by a
facility owner for the purpose of constructing a commercial wind energy
facility, a commercial solar energy facility, or supporting facilities.
PARTICIPATING RESIDENCE: A residence that is located on participating property
and that is existing and occupied on the date that an application for a permit
to develop the commercial wind energy facility or the commercial solar energy
facility filed with the county.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Dust, smoke or any other form of airborne pollution in the
form of minute separate particles.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion established to control noise, odor, smoke,
particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosion
hazards, glare, heat generated by or inherent in the uses of land or buildings.
PERSON: Any association, company, corporation, firm, organization, or
partnership, singular or plural, of any kind.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel of land or contiguous parcels of land of size
sufficient to create its own environment controlled by a single landowner or by
a group of landowners in common agreement as to control. To be developed as a
single entity, the environment of which is compatible with adjacent parcels,
and the intent of the zoning district in which it is located.
POST OFFICE: A facility used for the collection, sorting and distribution of
U.S. mail among several zip code areas and having limited retail services for
the public, such as the sale of stamps, postcards and postal insurance.
PREMISES: An area of land with its appurtenances and buildings which, because
of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of real
estate.
PRIMARY STRUCTURE: For each property, the structure that one or more persons
occupy the majority of time on that property for either business or personal
reasons. Primary structure includes structures such as residences, commercial
buildings, hospitals, and daycare facilities. Primary structure excludes
structures such as hunting sheds, storage sheds, pool houses, unattached
garages and barns.
PRINTING AND PUBLISHING: The production of books, magazines, newspapers and
other printed matter, and record pressing and publishing, engraving and
photoengraving, but excluding businesses involved solely in retail
photocopying, reproduction, photo developing or blueprinting services, which
would be included within the definition of "retail sales and service" herein.
PRIVATE IMPROVEMENT: Any installed or constructed facility for which the
responsibility of maintenance and ownership will be retained by the owner or a
private entity.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM: An on site sanitary sewage system that is
designed to provide treatment of sanitary sewage from a single use and is
maintained by a private individual or entity.
PRIVATE STREET: Any road that is used for access and circulation and the
ownership and maintenance responsibility of which is borne by the owner or
homeowners' association.
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: A qualified individual who is licensed as a professional
engineer in any state in the United States.
PROPERTY LINE: The lines bounding a lot or parcel delineating the land in
individual ownership.
PROTECTED LANDS: Real property that is subject to a permanent conservation
right consistent with the Real Property Conservation Rights Act; or registered
or designated as a nature preserve, buffer, or land and water reserve under the
Illinois Natural Areas Preservation Act.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Include streets, sidewalks, public utilities and other
structures, fixtures or land appurtenances which are or are intended to be
dedicated to a public or private entity.
QUARRY: The extraction of metallic and nonmetallic minerals excluding oil or
natural gas. Typical uses include sand and gravel pit operations, quarries and
mines.
RACETRACKS: Establishments providing tracks for the racing of cars,
motorcycles, bicycles, horses, dogs or similar types of motor vehicles and
animals for viewing by the public. To include facilities for support services.
RAILROAD RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operations, but not including freight depots or stations, loading
platforms, train sheds, roundhouses, car or locomotive shops or car yards.
RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR: An establishment offering recreation,
entertainment or games of skill to the public for a fee or charge and that is
wholly enclosed in a building. Typical uses include bowling alleys, indoor
theaters, bingo parlors, pool halls, billiard parlors and video game arcades.
Indoor recreational and entertainment facilities shall not include facilities
that are considered to be a "parks and recreation area" as defined herein.
RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR: An establishment offering recreation,
entertainment or games of skill to the public for a fee or charge, wherein any
portion of the activity takes place in the open. Typical uses include archery
ranges, batting cages, and golf driving ranges, drive-in theaters and miniature
golf courses. Outdoor recreational and entertainment facilities shall not
include facilities that are considered to be a "parks and recreation area" as
defined herein.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any of the following vehicles which are licensed for
travel on the highway: travel trailer (a vehicular, portable structure built on
a chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation
or vacation, or one permanently identified as a travel trailer by the
manufacturer of the trailer); pickup coach (a structure designed to be mounted
on a truck chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and
vacation); motor home (as a portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle); and camping trailer (as a canvas, material or metal folding
structure, mounted on wheels, and designed for travel, recreation and vacation
use); including, but not limited to, motorcycles and trailers to include
motorcycles, utility trailers, and all- terrain vehicles.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Land used or intended to be used for occupancy by
recreational vehicles for transient living purposes, including the use of
camping spaces for tents.
RECYCLING: The return of municipal solid waste items, most notably, glass,
paper, aluminum, steel, other metals, motor oil, yard waste and plastics, into
a usable product.
RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER: A building and/or site, with more than one
thousand (1,000) square feet in area, in which source separated recoverable
materials, such as newspapers, glassware and metal cans are collected, stored,
flattened, crushed or bundled prior to shipment to others who will use those
materials to manufacture new products. The materials are stored on site in bins
or trailers for shipment to market.
RECYCLING COLLECTION STATIONS: An accessory use or structure that serves as a
drop off station or buy back station, occupying no more than one thousand
(1,000) square feet for the collection of recyclable materials.
REFINERY: An industrial plant for purifying a crude substance.
REPAIR SERVICE: A use primarily engaged in the provision of repair services to
individuals and households, but excluding "vehicle repair" services. Typical
uses include appliance repair shops.
RESERVOIR PARKING: Those off street parking spaces allocated to automobiles
awaiting entrance to a particular establishment.
RESIDENCE: The act or condition of residing or dwelling in a place.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD: An establishment primarily engaged in the sale of food
and nonalcoholic beverages in a ready to consume state and where the design or
principal method of operation is that of a fast food or drive-in restaurant
offering quick food service, where orders are generally not taken at the
customer's table, where food is generally served in disposable wrapping or
containers, and where food and beverages may be served directly to the customer
in a motor vehicle.
RESTAURANT, GENERAL: An establishment where the principal business is the sale
of food and beverages in a ready to consume state.
RETAIL: The sale of commodities or services directly to customers, when such
commodities and services are used or consumed by the customer and are not
purchased primarily for the purpose of resale.
RETAIL SALES AND SERVICE: An establishment engaged in the sale or rental of
goods and services, excluding uses more specifically defined.
REVIEW BODY: The entity (county department head, board, or committee) that is
authorized to recommend approval or denial of an application or permit required
under this zoning ordinance.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated or used by the public for vehicular
traffic and/or storm, surface or ground water drainage and occupied or intended
to be occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line,
oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another
special use. The usage of the term "right of way" for land platting purposes
shall mean every right of way hereafter established and shown on a final plat
and shall be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining such
right of way, which are not included within the dimensions or areas of lots or
parcels. Right of way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, or any other use involving maintenance by a public agency
shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such right
of way is established.
RINGELMANN CHART: A chart that is described in the "U.S. Bureau Of Mines
Circular 6888", and on which are illustrated graduated shades of gray for use
in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: Designation of the area of the Ringelmann chart that
coincides nearly with the visual density of emissions of light obscuring
capacity of smoke.
ROADSIDE STAND: A structure for the display and sale of agricultural products,
which are produced in the county, with no space for customers within the
structure itself.
ROOFLINE: The highest point of the coping on a flat roof, false mansard, or
parapet wall; the deck line of a true mansard roof; the ridgeline between the
upper and lower slopes of a gambrel roof; or the mean height between the eaves
and ridge for a gable or hip roof.
RURAL HOME BASED OFF PREMISES BUSINESS: A home based business that usually
includes large equipment where business is conducted or operated primarily off
premises from the place of residence of the owner of such business with
business activity on the site of such owner's place of residence being limited
to the routine maintenance and routine storage of equipment, materials and
supplies used in the operation of such business and an accessory office within
such owner's dwelling for the operation of such business.
SAFETY SERVICE: A facility for conduct of safety and emergency services,
including fire and police protection services and emergency medical and
ambulance services.
SALVAGE YARD: A lot, land or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the
collecting, dismantling, storage and salvaging of machinery or vehicles that
are not in operating condition; or for the sale of parts thereof. Unless
conducted entirely within enclosed buildings, this also includes a lot or land
where waste or scrap materials of any type, including, but not limited to,
scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and bottles, are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled.
Typical uses include automobile salvage yards and junkyards.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A facility permitted by the Illinois environmental
protection agency for the disposal of waste on land meeting the requirements of
the resource conservation and recovery act and regulations hereunder. Such
facility shall operate in such a manner as to minimize nuisances or hazards to
the public health, safety, and welfare by confining the refuse to the smallest
practical volume and covering it with a layer of earth at the conclusion of
each day's operation, or by such other methods and at such intervals as the
county board may provide by regulation.
SCENIC AREA: Any area of particular scenic beauty as determined by federal,
state or local officials having jurisdiction over said areas. This includes
interests in land, which has been acquired for the restoration, preservation
and enhancement of scenic beauty.
SCHOOL: A facility that provides a curriculum of elementary and secondary
academic instruction, including kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high
schools and high schools.
SCREENING: Fencing, berms or plantings maintained for the purpose of concealing
from view the area behind such fencing, berms or plantings. When a use is
required to be separated from an adjoining lot or district by screening, such
screening shall be of sufficient size and design to conceal such use when
viewed from the adjoining property.
SEASONAL OR SPECIAL OCCASION TEMPORARY SIGNS: A sign which is not permanent and
is limited to a specific activity or in the celebration of holidays or other
special events.
SERVICE STATION, AUTOMOTIVE: A use primarily engaged in the retail sale of
gasoline or other motor fuels primarily to automobiles and passenger vehicles,
along with accessory activities such as the sale of lubricants, accessories, or
supplies, the lubrication of motor vehicles, and the minor adjustment or repair
of passenger motor vehicles. Uses involved primarily in the sale of diesel
fuel, gasoline or other fuels to tractor trucks and uses that feature parking,
storage or servicing of tractor trucks or semitrailers shall be classified as
"truck stop service stations".
SERVICE STATION, TRUCK STOP: A use primarily engaged in the sale of diesel
fuel, gasoline or other fuels to tractor trucks, along with accessory
activities such as the sale of lubricants, accessories or supplies, or the
servicing of tractor trucks or semitrailers. A truck stop service station may
include, as an accessory use, the parking and storage of tractor trucks and
semitrailers for a short period of time not exceeding five (5) days.
SETBACK: The minimal longitudinal distance between the building or structure
line and the related lot line abutting a street.
SETBACK, EXTERIOR: An "exterior front setback" or an "exterior street side
setback".
SETBACK, EXTERIOR FRONT: A setback that is to extend across the full width of a
lot between the street right of way line and a line parallel thereto on the
lot.
SETBACK, EXTERIOR STREET SIDE: A setback that is to extend from the street
right of way line to the rear lot line along the side of a lot that is adjacent
to a street or street right of way line, the required depth of which is
measured as the minimum horizontal distance between the side lot line and a
line parallel thereto on the lot.
SETBACK, INTERIOR: An "interior side setback" or an "interior rear setback".
SETBACK, INTERIOR REAR: A setback that is to extend across the full width of a
lot, the required depth of which is measured as the minimum horizontal distance
between the rear lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot.
SETBACK, INTERIOR SIDE: A setback that is to extend from the street right of
way line to the rear lot line along the side of a lot that is adjacent to
another lot, the required depth of which is measured as the minimum horizontal
distance between the side lot line and a line parallel thereto on the lot.
SHOOTING RANGE, PUBLIC, SEMIPUBLIC OR PRIVATE: A premises used for target
shooting with rifles, muskets or pistols; or for skeet or trap shooting. Such
shooting range may include as an accessory use a clubhouse, maintenance
building, facilities for serving food and refreshments and the sale of shooting
supplies for use on the range. A shooting range does not include a premises
used for such purposes by the individual owner, members of the household and
nonpaying guests when accompanied by the individual owner or a member of the
household.
SHOPPING CENTER: A building containing four (4) or more shops, stores, and
other places of business, and providing off street parking facilities in common
for all of the businesses and their customers.
SHOW WINDOW SIGNS: Any temporary sign advertising sales or specials attached to
or within three feet (3') of the glass surface of any fixed window (glazing)
visible from the public right of way.
SIDEWALK: A paved surface or leveled area, paralleling and usually separated
from the street, used as a pedestrian walkway.
SIGN: Any name, identification, description, illustration or device illuminated
or nonilluminated which is visible from any public place or is located on
private property and exposed to the public and which directs attention to a
product, service, place, activity, person, institution, business or
solicitation, including any permanently installed or situated merchandise or
any emblem, painting, banner, pennant or placard designed to advertise,
identify or convey information, with the exception of window displays and
national flags. For the purpose of removal, signs shall also include all sign
structures. Not included are decorative devices or emblems as may be displayed
on a residential mailbox. For the purpose of this title, this definition shall
include those signs painted directly upon a building or structure.
SIGN AREA: A. The area of a freestanding sign or structure not utilizing an
integral part of the building for its background means the largest cross
sectional area of the sign measured to a line encompassing all portions of the
sign structure, including tubing used in lighting such sign or structure, but
excluding posts without attached lighting. Further, the base on which a
monument type sign is set may be excluded; provided, there is no attached
lighting;
   B.   The area of a double faced sign (i.e., a sign painted on 2 sides), or
signs which are erected in a "V" configuration with an angle between the two
(2) faces not exceeding thirty degrees (30°), shall be the largest area on one
side of the sign. Further, these types of signs shall be considered one sign
for the purpose of determining the number of signs allowed;
   C.   The area of any sign or structure utilizing an integral part of the
building or awning as a background means the area within the shortest line
drawn to include all letters, design and tubing which are a part of the sign or
structure; provided, that for illuminated awnings the area shall be limited to
the area within the shortest line drawn to include all copy and graphics,
excluding illuminated area outside of these lines.
SIGN, ATTACHED: A sign erected or placed upon the wall of any building with the
plane of the face parallel to the plane of the wall below the roofline.
SIGN, COMMERCIAL DIRECTORY: A sign designating the name of a commercial center
and listing the various tenants of the center.
SIGN, CONSTRUCTION: A temporary sign used during the construction of new
buildings or reconstruction of or additions to existing buildings, such as
those identifying the project and denoting the owner, architect, engineer,
contractor, and/or financing institutions of the project.
SIGN, CROP IDENTIFICATION: A sign whose content includes the type, description,
identification and otherwise pertinent information of crops being grown on a
plot of land.
SIGN, DIRECTIONAL: A sign which indicates a direction for vehicular or
pedestrian traffic or other movement.
SIGN, FASCIA: A flat sign which projects one and one-half feet (11/2') or less
horizontally from the vertical face of the wall of a building, or vertical face
of a canopy awning or parapet upon which it is affixed, painted, or attached,
running parallel for its whole length to the face or wall of the building and
which does not extend beyond the horizontal width of such wall, awning or
parapet.
SIGN, FLASHING: Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation, or an externally mounted intermittent light source.
Automatic changing signs such as public service time, temperature and date
signs or electronically controlled message centers are not defined as "flashing
signs".
SIGN, FLUTTERING: A sign which flutters and includes banners, flags, pennants,
or other flexible material which moves with the wind or by some artificial
means.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign not attached to or forming a part of a building.
SIGN, GROUND: Any detached sign on the same lot or parcel as the use it
advertises which has its bottom portion erected upon or supported by the
ground, a ground planter box, or other supports.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1421.gif]
SIGN, HANGING: Any sign hanging entirely beneath a canopy, portico, or marquee.
SIGN, ILLUMINATED: Any sign which is illuminated by light source mounted on or
in the sign or at some other location.
SIGN, INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX: A sign which is designed to identify an industrial
complex where no single business identification and advertisement occupies more
than fifty percent (50%) of the sign.
SIGN, MEMORIAL OR TABLETS: The permanent part of a building which denotes the
name of the building, date of erection, historical significance, dedication, or
other similar information.
SIGN, MONUMENT: A sign and supporting structure which has similar top and
bottom dimensions and is constructed as a solid structure or one which gives
the appearance of a continuous, nonhollow, unbroken, unfenestrated mass.
Further, similar top and bottom dimensions shall mean dimensions which are
within ten percent (10%) of each other.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1423.gif]
SIGN, NONCONFORMING: A sign legally erected prior to the adoption date hereof,
but which does not conform to the provisions of this code.
SIGN, OCCUPATIONAL AND/OR IDENTIFICATION: An attached wall sign identifying the
name of a person occupying a building and mounted adjacent to the main entrance
of the building.
SIGN, OFF PREMISES: A sign that advertises products, services or facilities or
directs persons to a premises different from where the sign is installed.
SIGN, OFF PREMISES DIRECTIONAL: A sign which directs persons to a premises
different from where the sign is located. These signs typically include an
address or street name or direction such as "two blocks north on the right".
SIGN, ON PREMISES: A sign which carries only advertisements strictly related to
a lawful use of the premises on which it is located, including signs or sign
devices indicating the business transacted, services rendered, goods sold or
produced on the premises, name of the business, and name of the person, firm or
corporation occupying the premises. "On premises sign" also means a sign which
contains religious, political, social and other noncommercial messages.
SIGN, POLE: Any detached sign located on the same lot or parcel as the use it
advertises which is supported by one or more stationary poles no taller than
thirty feet (30') above the mean grade line of the ground at its base provided
that this shall not include a permitted ground sign as set forth.
SIGN, POLITICAL: A temporary sign advocating or opposing any political
proposition or candidate for public office.
SIGN, PORTABLE: Signs not permanently affixed to the ground or to a building.
SIGN, PROJECT IDENTIFICATION: A permanent ground sign identifying an apartment
complex, condominium project, or mobile home development entry, name and/or
street names within the project.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign, other than an attached sign, that is attached to or
projects more than one and one-half feet (11/2') from a building face or wall
or from a structure whose primary purpose is other than the support of a sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1425.gif]
SIGN, PROPERTY REAL ESTATE: A sign pertaining only to the prospective rental,
lease, or sale of the property upon which it is located. Real estate signs
shall be excluded from the definition of pole signs.
SIGN, RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION PROJECT: Any temporary sign that provides
direction to any residential development under construction, or promotes the
residential development on the project site.
SIGN, ROOF: Any sign erected on a roof but excluding marquee and canopy signs
and wall signs. The generally vertical plane of a mansard type roof shall be
interpreted as the same as a wall of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1427.gif]
SIGN, ROTATING: A sign in which the sign itself or any portion of the sign
moves in a revolving or similar manner.
SIGN, SPECIAL DISPLAYS: Signs not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet, used
for holidays, public demonstrations, or promotion of civil welfare or
charitable purposes.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The sign and all parts associated with its construction.
SIGN, SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION: A permanent ground sign identifying a
subdivision entry, subdivision name, and/or street names within the
subdivision.
SIGN SUPPORTS: All structures by which a sign is held up, including, for
example, poles, braces, guys, and anchors.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Any sign intended for a limited or intermittent period of
display.
SIGN, WINDOW: A temporary sign affixed to the inside of an exterior window or
glass door.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1429.gif]
SINGLE-FAMILY, ACCESSORY: A single-family dwelling unit located within a
building containing a commercial use and which is accessory to the commercial
use.
SINGLE-FAMILY, ATTACHED: The use of a lot for one dwelling unit that is
attached to at least one other dwelling unit by common or abutting walls and
with each dwelling unit located on its own separate lot. Typical uses include
duplexes, townhouses and condominiums. This definition shall exclude mobile
homes.
SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED: The use of a lot for only one principal dwelling unit
that is not connected to any other dwelling unit. This definition shall exclude
mobile homes.
SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED AGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling unit
located on a tract of land whose principal use is the pursuit of an
agricultural use as defined herein with the dwelling unit being clearly
accessory and subordinate to such agricultural use subject to the limitation
that such a dwelling unit is occupied by or intended for occupancy by the owner
of such tract or by a person or persons whose principal occupation is the
pursuit of agriculture on such land.
SINGLE-FAMILY, DETACHED NONAGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE: Any single- family dwelling
unit which is not an agricultural residence.
SINGLE-FAMILY, UNDERGROUND DWELLING: A single-family detached dwelling unit
constructed belowground and which has earth cover over the underground portion
of the dwelling.
SINGLE-FAMILY ZERO LOT LINE DWELLING: A single-family dwelling that does not
adjoin any other dwelling and is located on a lot that does not extend beyond
the exterior of the building in which the dwelling is located.
SLOW BURNING OR INCOMBUSTIBLE: Implies materials which do not in themselves
constitute an active fuel for the spread of combustion. A material which will
not ignite or actively support combustion during an exposure for five (5)
minutes to a temperature of one thousand two hundred degrees Fahrenheit
(1,200°F) shall be designated combustible.
SMOKE UNITS NUMBER: The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in
Ringelmann number by the time of emission in minutes.
For the purpose of this calculation:
   A.   Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every minute of the
period of observation;
   B.   Each reading is then multiplied by the number of minutes during which
it is observed; and
   C.   The various products are then added together to give the total number
of smoke units observed during the total period under observation.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS, COMMERCIAL: Any device or combination of devices that (i)
is ground installed and (ii) uses solar energy from the sun for generating
electricity for the primary purpose of wholesale or retail sale and not
primarily for consumption on the property in which the device or devices
reside. "Commercial solar energy facility" does not mean a utility-scale solar
energy facility being constructed at a site that was eligible to participate in
a procurement event conducted by the Illinois Power Agency pursuant to
subsection (c-5) of Section 1-75 of the Illinois Power Agency Act.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS, PRIVATE: Any device or combination of devices or elements
which rely on power obtained by harnessing the energy of the sun's rays,
intended primarily to be used as an onsite power source, however, incidental
energy output may be delivered to a power grid to offset the cost of energy on
site.
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION/PROCESSING: Recycling collection centers, incinerators,
processing facilities, materials recovery facilities, solid waste transfer
stations or any facility where solid wastes are salvaged, sorted, processed or
treated.
SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION: A solid waste facility at which solid waste is
transferred from collection vehicles (some sorting may occur) to long distance
hauling vehicles for transportation to a central solid waste management
facility for processing, disposal, incineration or resource recovery.
SOUND LEVEL: The intensity of sound, measured in decibels produced by an
operation or use.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measuring the intensity of sound.
SOURCE SEPARATION: Materials that are separated from the solid waste stream at
the point of origin for the purpose of recycling. For example, separating
household paper, glass and aluminum from the rest of the solid waste.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Sexual conduct, being acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual
intercourse or physical contact with a person's unclothed genitals, pubic area,
buttocks or, if such person is a female, her breast;
   B.   Sexual excitement, being the condition of human male or female genitals
when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal; or
   C.   Sadomasochistic abuse, being flagellation or torture by or upon a
person or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically
restrained.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A building, structure or area of land which is located on a
lot on which a dwelling is located and which is designed, arranged, used or
intended to be used for housing horses for the private use of occupants of the
dwelling unit but in no event for hire.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A building used for housing horses for compensation, hire or
sale.
STANDARD OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURE AND/OR BILLBOARD: Any sign intended to
attract general public interest concerning a commercial enterprise, product,
service, industry, or other activity not conducted, sold or offered on the
premises upon which the sign is erected. This includes billboards, detached
pole signs on separate parcels, wall signs and signs otherwise attached to
buildings and/or supported by uprights or braces on the ground. Real estate
signs and political signs are excluded from this definition.
STOCKYARD: A nonagricultural based facility used or intended to be used for
selling or holding livestock.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above it and in the case of a split
level story, the surface of the floors at different elevations and the ceilings
next above such floors, provided that there is not more than four feet (4')
difference in elevation between the levels of the floors of such a story. A
"basement" as herein defined shall not be considered a story for the purposes
of this title.
STORY, HALF: A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than
three feet (3') above the floor of such story, except that any partial story
used for residence purposes, other than for a janitor or caretaker or his
family, or by a family occupying the floor immediately below it, shall be
deemed a full story.
STREET: A general term denoting a public right of way or a publicly maintained
or approved private thoroughfare which affords the principal means of vehicular
access to abutting property. The term includes all facilities which normally
are found within the right of way.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between a lot and a contiguous street. If said
contiguous street is established by easement rather than by dedicated right of
way, the street line shall be established by measuring from the centerline of
said roadway half the right of way width if said roadway were dedicated.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building such as the addition,
removal or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE: Anything that is built or constructed, including, but not limited
to, any usable, permanent, in place device or appliance within the lot making a
projection of six inches (6") (15 cm) or more above grade and having a base
greater than twelve (12) square feet (1 square meter). This does not, however,
exclude such underground or surface structures such as tunnels, future
foundations, or swimming pools in whole or in part below grade. An improvement
upon land, other than the land itself, the use of which requires more or less
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground.
STUDIO (RADIO, TELEVISION, FILM OR MUSIC): An establishment primarily engaged
in the provision of recording or broadcasting services accomplished through the
use of electronic mechanisms.
SUBDIVISION PLAT: The configuration of lots of record, outlots, public rights
of way and land improvements which result from subdividing land in accordance
with the provisions of this title.
SUBSTATION: The apparatus that connects the electrical collection system of the
WECS(s) and increases the voltage for connection with the utility's
transmission lines.
SUPPORTING FACILITIES: The transmission lines, substations, access roads,
meteorological towers, storage containers, and equipment associated with the
generation and storage of electricity by the commercial wind energy facility or
commercial solar energy facility.
SURETY BOND: A bond approved by the county board posted with a surety to
guarantee a developer's performance.
SURETY COMPANY: A surety, title, or insurance company approved by the county
board to act as surety.
SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE: A swimming pool and the apparatus and equipment
pertaining to the swimming pool, maintained by an individual for the sole use
of a family and guests, without charge for admission, and not for the purpose
of profit or in connection with any business operated for profit, located on a
lot as an accessory use to a residence.
SWIMMING POOL, PUBLIC: A swimming pool and apparatus and equipment pertaining
to the swimming pool, maintained and operated by a municipality or other units
of government for the general public, whether or not an admission fee is
charged.
TEMPORARY USE: A use which is only allowed for a specified period of time.
TENT: A structure or enclosure, the roof of which and/or one-half (1/2) or more
of the sides are constructed of a silk, cotton, canvas, nylon fabric or a
similar light material.
TERMINAL: A depot building or area specifically designated for the storage or
transfer of persons or material, or temporary storage and service of operable
vehicles used in the transport of persons, goods or materials.
THREE COMPONENT MEASURING SYSTEM: Denotes instrumentation which can measure
earth borne vibrations in three (3) directions (those occurring in a horizontal
as well as vertical plane).
THROUGH LOT: See definition of Lot, Double Frontage (Through Lot).
TOURIST ORIENTED DESTINATION SIGNS (TODS): Guide signs that display the
business identification of and directional information for tourist oriented
businesses and tourist oriented facilities, these signs may only be acquired
through the appropriate highway authority.
TOXIC MATTER OR MATERIALS: Those which are capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical means when present in relatively small amounts.
TRACT: See definition of Parcel.
TRAILER: Any vehicle, or any portable or mobile vehicle on wheels, skids or
rollers, or blocks, either self-propelled or propelled by any other means,
which is used or designed to be used for dwelling, lodging, commercial, or
agricultural purposes. For the purposes of this title, such vehicle, or any
portable or mobile vehicle shall be classified as a trailer whether or not it
has been placed on a permanent foundation with its hitch and rolling equipment
removed and whether or not an addition thereto has been built on the ground.
See definition of Mobile Home.
TRANSIT FACILITY: A facility used or intended to be used as an area of loading,
unloading and interchange of transit passengers. Typical uses include bus
terminals, rail stations, park and ride facilities, and passenger related mass
transit facilities.
TRANSITION BELT/BUFFER ZONE: An area which may be required along the rear lot
line and interior side lot lines of lots which are immediately adjacent to a
different zoning district or to a different use. Such transition belt, when
required, shall consist of a strip of land lying immediately adjacent and
parallel to the full length of a side or rear lot line, extending into the lot
a specified width. In no case shall the transition belt encroach into the front
yard. Such transition belt shall be unobstructed except by a required
transition screen, and shall not contain driveways, parking or loading
facilities.
TRANSITION SCREEN: A screen located in a transition belt, such screen meeting
the specifications set forth in section
8-4A-9 of this title.
TRANSITIONAL LIVING FACILITY: A state licensed group care home for juvenile
delinquents, halfway houses providing residence, rehabilitation and counseling
to persons on release from a more restrictive custodial confinement, and
residential rehabilitation treatment centers which also may provide outpatient
rehabilitation for alcohol and other drug abuse.
TRUCKING FACILITY: The business office or the parking, repair or storage
facility for vehicles and/or equipment used for the business of transporting
goods on trucks. Such use does not include the storage, processing, or loading
and unloading of goods transported.
UPLIGHT: Light projected above the horizontal.
USE: Activity for which the land, or building structure thereon, is designed,
arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, and shall
include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the
regulations of this zoning ordinance.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use which is clearly and customarily incidental
to the principal use of a building or premises and which is located in the same
lot as the principal building or use, except for such accessory parking
facilities as are specifically authorized to be located elsewhere.
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards, if any, of such districts.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The primary use and chief purpose of a lot or structure as
distinguished from an accessory use.
USE, SPECIAL: A use, either public or private, which, because of its unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in any
particular district or districts. After due consideration, in each case, of the
impact of such use upon neighboring land and of the public need for the
particular use at the particular location, such special use may or may not be
granted, subject to the terms of this title.
UTILITY, MAJOR: Generating plants; electrical switching facilities and primary
substations; water and wastewater treatment plants; water tanks; and radio,
television and microwave transmission towers; and similar facilities of
agencies that are under public franchise or ownership to provide the public
with electricity, gas, heat, steam, communication, rail transportation, water,
sewage collection or other similar service. The term "utility" shall not be
construed to include corporate or general offices; gas or oil processing;
manufacturing facilities; postal facilities; or other uses defined herein.
UTILITY, MINOR: Services and facilities of agencies that are under public
franchise or ownership to provide services that are essential to support
development and that involve only minor structures, such as poles and lines.
VARIANCE: A relaxation of the terms of this zoning ordinance where such
variances will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the results of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this title would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship.
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT SALES: An establishment engaged in the retail or
wholesale sale or rental, from the premises, of motorized vehicles or
equipment, along with incidental service or maintenance activities. Typical
uses include new and used automobile and truck sales, automobile rental, boat
sales, motorcycle sales, moving trailer rental, and agricultural equipment and
machinery sales and rental.
VEHICLE/EQUIPMENT STORAGE YARD: An outdoor area used or intended to be used for
long term storage of vehicles and equipment, other than a "commercial parking
lot" or accessory parking to a principal use.
VEHICLE PAINT AND BODY SHOP: An establishment primarily engaged in painting of
or bodywork to motor vehicles or heavy equipment.
VEHICLE REPAIR: A use providing automobile repair or maintenance services
within completely enclosed buildings, but not including "general vehicle
repair" services.
VIBRATION: The periodic displacement, measured in inches, of earth.
VOCATIONAL SCHOOL: A use providing education or training in business,
commercial trades, language, arts or other similar activity or occupational
pursuit, and not otherwise defined as a "college or university" or "school".
WAREHOUSE, SELF-STORAGE: An enclosed storage facility containing independent,
fully enclosed bays that are leased to individuals exclusively for dead storage
of their household goods or personal property.
WAREHOUSING AND WHOLESALE: An establishment primarily engaged in the storage or
sales of materials, equipment, or products or sales to wholesalers or
retailers. Typical uses include cold storage, warehousing and dead storage
facilities, but excluding "residential storage warehouses" and sales of goods
to the general public.
WASTE: Any garbage, sludge from a waste treatment plant, water supply treatment
plant, or air pollution control facility or other discarded material, including
solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained gaseous material resulting from
industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include, solid or dissolved material in domestic
sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or
industrial discharges which are point sources subject to permits under section
402 of the clean water act or sources, special nuclear, or byproduct materials
as defined by the atomic energy act of 1954, as amended (68 stat. 921) or any
solid or dissolved material from any facility subject to the federal surface
mining control and reclamation act of 1977 (PL 95-87) or the rules and
regulations hereunder or any law or rule or regulations adopted by the state of
Illinois pursuant thereto.
WASTE CONSOLIDATION POINT: A point where solid waste is collected and can be
sorted and compacted, to be then transferred to a solid waste facility, and is
identified as a supportive accessory use to a residential district.
WECS TOWER HEIGHT: Means and includes the distance from the rotor blade at its
highest point to the top surface of the WECS foundation.
WELDING OR MACHINE SHOP: A workshop where machines, machine parts, or other
metal products are fabricated. Typical uses include machine shops, welding
shops and sheet metal shops.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM TOWER: The support structure to which the nacelle
and rotor are attached.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM TOWER HEIGHT: The distance from the rotor blade
at its highest point to the top surface of the WECS foundation.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION FACILITY, COMMERCIAL: A wind energy conversion facility
of equal or greater than 500 kilowatts in total nameplate generating capacity.
Also referred to herein as "Wind Energy Conversion System" or WECS" or "WECS
Project".
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), COMMERCIAL: All necessary devices that
together convert wind energy into electricity to be sold to wholesale or retail
markets, including the rotor, nacelle, generator, WECS tower, electrical
components, WECS foundation, transformer, and electrical cabling from the WECS
tower to the substation(s).
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS), PRIVATE: All necessary devices that
together convert wind energy into electricity, including the rotor, nacelle,
generator, WECS tower, electrical components, WECS foundation, transformer, and
electrical cabling from the WECS tower to any substation(s), where the rated
capacity is not more than one hundred (100) kilowatts, and the WECS is located
on private property for the use of the owner of the property on which the WECS
is to be located.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS) PROJECT: The collection of WECSs and
substations as specified in a special use permit application pursuant to this
title.
WIND TOWER: Means and includes the wind turbine tower, nacelle, and blades.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a building or structure,
unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, except as
otherwise authorized by this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full length of the front line between
the side lot lines.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending along the full length of the rear lot line between
the side lot lines.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and rear
property lines.
YARD WASTE: See definition of landscape waste.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The Zoning Administrator of Jo Daviess County, Illinois,
or his/her designated representative.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS: The Jo Daviess County Zoning Board of Appeals.
ZONING MAP: The map adopted by the County Board in accordance with 55 Illinois
Compiled Statutes or any other statute enacted in lieu thereof showing all
zoning district boundaries in the unincorporated areas of Jo Daviess County,
Illinois.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of Jo Daviess County, Illinois.
(Ord. 2009-3, 5-12-2009; amd. Ord. 2011-8, 11-8-2011; Ord. 2015-7, 11-10-2015;
Ord. 2016-8, 10-11-2016; Ord. 2019-4, 12-10-2019; Ord. O2023-6, 5-9-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1.
2 2. 225 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
3 1. 225 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
4 1. 225 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
5 2. 225 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
6 1. 225 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
TITLE 9
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Rules And Definitions
9-1-2: Jurisdiction And Preannexation Agreement
9-1-3: Scope
9-1-4: Situations When Survey And Plat Not Required
9-1-5: Existing Plat Or Master Plan
9-1-6: Separability
9-1-1: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
The present tense includes the future tense, and vice versa; the masculine
gender includes feminine and neuter; the singular includes the plural and vice
versa; the word "shall" is always mandatory, the word "may" is always
permissive. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following words shall, for
this title, have the meanings herein indicated. Any pertinent word or term not
a part of this listing and vital to the interpretation of this title shall be
construed to have its usual legal definition.
AREA SERVICE HIGHWAY (State): Highways connecting population centers in the
county and adjoining counties.
BLOCK: Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two (2)
nearest intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right of way, waterway
or subdivided area, or other definite boundary.
BUILDING: A structure having a roof supported by columns, walls, arches, or
other devices and used for housing, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals,
or other chattels.
COMMISSION: The Jo Daviess County planning commission. Wherever the word
"commission" is used, it shall mean the Jo Daviess County planning commission.
CONSTRUCTION: The excavation of earth to provide for a basement or cellar; and/
or the addition to or removal from a lot or tract of land of earth, water or
trees so as to prepare said lot or tract of land for the creation of a
structure; and/or the placing of building materials in a permanent manner; and/
or the demolition, elimination or removal of an existing structure.
COUNTY BOARD: The Jo Daviess County board.
COUNTY PLAN: The land use plan of Jo Daviess County or any of its parts as
adopted by the county board on February 14, 1989, as amended.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor residential street with a circular turnaround.
DWELLING: A building designed for residential purposes and containing one or
more dwelling units and/or lodging units.
EASEMENT: A grant or right to ingress/egress and use of private land by the
owner for designated public, corporation or personal use for specified
purposes.
FREEWAY: A highway for through traffic with full or partial control or access.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A secondary thoroughfare or residential street which is parallel
to and adjacent to a freeway, major highway or area service highway, and which
provides access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
GRADE: The ascending or descending inclination with the horizontal of a street,
measured along the centerline of the right of way, expressed by stating the
vertical rise or fall as a percentage of the horizontal distance.
HALF STREET: A street dedicated to less than its full planned width.
LOT: The tract of land within a subdivision marked by the subdivider on the
plat as a numbered, lettered or other identified tract of land to be offered
for sale, dedication or development.
LOT, CORNER: A lot located:
   A.   At the junction of and abutting two (2) or more intersecting streets;
or
   B.   At the junction of an abutting a street and the nearest short line or
high water line of a storm or flood water runoff channel or basin; or
   C.   At the junction of and abutting two (2) or more storm or flood water
runoff channels or basins; or
   D.   At the abutting point or abrupt change of a single street where the
interior angle is less than one hundred thirty five degrees (135°), and the
radius of the street centerline is less than one hundred feet (100').
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES: The lines bounding a lot.
MAJOR HIGHWAY (State): A trafficway connecting communities or connecting to
limited access trafficways which, in turn, connect to other communities and
which are used primarily for fast and/or large quantities of traffic.
PERFORMANCE BOND OR GUARANTEE: A bond, either in cash or issued by a surety
company, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the contract and payment
of all obligations arising thereunder.
PLAT:
   A.   A map representing a tract of land, showing the boundaries and location
of individual properties and streets.
   B.   A map of a subdivision or site plan.
PLAT, FINAL: A plat submitted for final approval and conforming to the
requirements of this title.
PLAT OFFICER: The officer appointed by the chairperson of the county board,
with the consent of the county board, whose vested duty is to administer and
enforce all of the regulations of this title.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A plat from which reproductions can be made and which
conforms to the requirements of this title, and is subject to revision prior to
county board final approval.
PRIMARY THOROUGHFARE: A street or road designated as such in the transportation
plan of the county plan.
PRIVATE ROAD: Any vehicular way which is not dedicated to the public.
RESERVED STRIP: A narrow strip of land, usually along the boundary of a
subdivision, that is withheld from sale or dedication by the subdivider to
control the development of adjacent land.
RESIDENTIAL STREET: A trafficway which serves primarily for access to abutting
properties.
REVERSE FRONTAGE: A lot that is bounded in front and in back by a street.
ROADWAY: Right of way dedicated to and accepted for the public use. "Roadway"
means a way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, expressway, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane,
place or however otherwise designated. The plat officer shall determine in
which classification a roadway in a proposed subdivision shall fall.
SECONDARY THOROUGHFARE: A street or road designated as such in the
transportation plan of the county plan.
SUBDIVIDER: The person or persons, firm or corporation who are owners of or
agents for the area being subdivided and who are responsible for preparing and
recording the plat of the subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate
requirements outlined in this title for the subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION: Either:
   A.   The division of land into two (2) or more lots, sites or parcels;
   B.   The resubdivision of land heretofore divided or platted into lots,
sites or parcels; or
   C.   Any multiple dwelling units on a single parcel.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of highways of Jo Daviess County.
SURVEY: The process of ascertaining the area, dimensions and location of a
piece of land, prepared by an Illinois registered surveyor, and meeting all the
requirements of Illinois state law. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-1-2: JURISDICTION AND PREANNEXATION AGREEMENT:
   A.   Jurisdiction: This title shall apply to all land in the county not
exempted herein or not within an incorporated municipality. In the event of
overlapping jurisdiction within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the
municipality exercising subdivision control, the extent of jurisdiction herein
shall be as determined and agreed upon between the county and the municipality
or municipalities concerned, and approval shall be given if the highest
requirements of this title and any other competing ordinance are met. A copy of
the proposed plat shall be submitted to said municipality by the subdivider or
developer at the time when the preliminary plat is submitted to the plat
officer. (Amended Ord., 9-1991; amd. Ord. 2010-5, 9-14-2010)
   B.   Preannexation Agreement: The county board of the county of Jo Daviess
hereby finds it to be in the best interest of the citizens of the county of Jo
Daviess to retain control and jurisdiction over properties that are more than
1.5 miles from the boundaries of the annexing municipality and subject to
annexation agreements. Such property shall remain under the control and
jurisdiction of the county board and subject to all county ordinances and
codes. (Ord. 2010-5, 9-14-2010)
9-1-3: SCOPE:
Within the territorial limits of this title, no person, firm or corporation,
except as otherwise provided herein, shall change, resubdivide or rearrange the
boundary or division line of any lot or parcel of land, or divide the same by
any means into lots for any purpose unless he complies with all rules and
regulations provided herein. Nor shall any such person, firm or corporation
begin any construction work in a proposed subdivision, including grading,
without complying with the provisions of this title. Unless approved as a final
plat as provided herein, no subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the
recorder's office or have any validity; the county board shall not accept any
public improvements or services in such subdivision until the public
improvements or services comply with the requirements of this title; and the
county health department shall not issue any septic system permits for any
structure on a lot in any subdivision developed or built in violation of this
title. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-1-4: SITUATIONS WHEN SURVEY AND PLAT NOT REQUIRED:
A survey and plat are not required for the following in order to be in
compliance with this title:
   A.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land.
   B.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interest therein for use as a
right of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   C.   The conveyance of land for highways by a railroad or other public
utility which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   D.   The conveyance of land for highways or other public purposes, or grants
of conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use, or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with the public use.
   E.   Conveyances made to correct discrepancies in prior conveyances.
   F.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any new streets or easements
of access. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
   G.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access. (Amended Ord., 9-1991; amd. per correspondence dated 8-21-2013)
   H.   The sale is of a single lot less than five (5) acres from a larger
tract, the dimensions and configurations of said larger tract on October 1,
1973, and no sale, prior to this sale, of any lot or lots from said larger
tract having taken place since October 1, 1973, and a survey of said single lot
having been made by a registered land surveyor.
   I.   The sale is of a single lot of less than twenty (20) acres from a
larger tract, the dimensions and configurations of said larger tract on October
1, 1973, and no sale, prior to this sale, of any lot or lots from said larger
tract having taken place since October 1, 1973, and a survey of said single lot
having been made by a registered land surveyor.
   J.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division of land recorded prior to February 8, 1994. Also, the sale or exchange
of parcels or tracts of land on installment contracts initiated prior to
February 8, 1994. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-1-5: EXISTING PLAT OR MASTER PLAN:
Any plat or master plan approved by the county board prior to the effective
date hereof shall be continued in effect. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-1-6: SEPARABILITY:
If any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title
is for any reason held to be void, such decision shall not affect the validity
of any other article, section, subsection, sentence, clause or portion thereof.
(Amended Ord., 9-1991)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Modifications And Exceptions
9-2-2: Amendments
9-2-3: Fees
9-2-4: Enforcement
9-2-5: Violations; Penalties
9-2-1: MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
The planning commission may recommend and the county board may grant
modifications and exceptions to the strict requirements of this title where it
can be shown that compliance herewith would work an undue hardship upon the
developer or subdivider, and where such modifications and exceptions maintain
the intent of this title. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-2-2: AMENDMENTS:
For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety and general welfare, the
county board may, from time to time, amend the regulations imposed by this
title. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-2-3: FEES:
Any application for subdivision shall be accompanied by a fee as set by the
county board. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The following procedure shall be followed to ensure the enforcement of this
title: Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the recorder of deeds or any
officer or employee of the county that any of the provisions of this title have
been violated, it shall be his duty to notify the plat officer, who shall
thereafter notify the state's attorney of the county of the violation. The
state's attorney shall then send a certified letter to the person deemed to be
offending, stating the violation and requesting compliance with this title. If
the violation is not corrected and the terms of this title complied with within
a reasonable time, as stated in the letter, the state's attorney shall
prosecute the violator for violating this title. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-2-5: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any subdivider who violates this title and any applicable federal, state or
local ordinances shall be subject to the following penalties:
   A.   Failure To Plant Cornerstone; Improper Surveys: Whoever shall neglect
or fail to plant any cornerstone when required by this title, or shall survey
any subdivision or cause any subdivision to be surveyed in any other manner
than that which is prescribed in this title, shall be guilty of a petty offense
and fined in any sum not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus costs.
   B.   Selling Lots Without Recorded Plat: Whoever sells or offers for sale or
leases for any time period any lot or block in any subdivision in the county
before all of the requirements of this title have been complied with shall be
guilty of a petty offense and fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00), plus costs, for each lot or block or part thereof so disposed of,
offered for sale or leased. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Presubmission Conference
9-3-2: Preliminary Plat
9-3-3: Improvements
9-3-4: Final Plat
9-3-1: PRESUBMISSION CONFERENCE:
Prior to the submission of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may confer with
the plat officer on an informal basis to discuss the proposed plat, its
conformity to the comprehensive plan and its relationship to surrounding
property, streets, etc. At this time, the plat officer shall provide the
subdivider with copies of standard forms to be placed on the plat. The plat
officer shall be authorized, except in instances where the plat officer
believes particular difficulties exist, to waive preliminary plats and other
procedural requirements other than a final plat and other than requirements of
the county board of health. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Preparation And Filing: The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a
preliminary plat and shall file eight (8) or more copies of the preliminary
plat and other required material with the plat officer in application for
approval. The application shall include the following:
      1.   Location Map: A sketch map showing the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to the streets and other community facilities serving said
subdivision. Such map shall include the subdivision name, an outline of the
area to be subdivided, existing streets and trafficways and public utilities on
adjoining property, north point, scale and date.
      2.   Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat of the subdivision drawn to the
scale of one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') or less and including:
         a.   All plats shall be submitted on sheets no smaller than eight and
one-half inches by fourteen inches (81/2" x 14") and no larger than thirty
inches by thirty six inches (30" x 36").
         b.   The name of the proposed subdivision, boundary line bearings and
distances, and acreage.
         c.   The names, addresses and phone numbers of persons who prepared
the plat.
         d.   North point, graphic scale and date.
         e.   Ground elevations on the tract for land which slopes less than
approximately two percent (2%), show spot elevations at all breaks and grades,
along all drainage channels or swales, and at selected points not more than one
hundred feet (100') apart in all directions; for land that slopes more than
approximately two percent (2%), show contours with intervals of not more than
twenty feet (20').
         f.   Utilities on or adjacent to the tract, including locations, size
and invert elevation of storm and sanitary sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines, fire hydrants, electric and telephone poles and
streetlights and appropriate shutoffs; if water mains and sewers are not on or
adjacent to the street, indication of the direction and distance to, and size
of nearest water mains and/or sewers, showing invert elevation of them.
         g.   Other conditions on the tract, including watercourses, marshes,
wooded areas, isolated preservable trees, houses, barns, shacks, abandoned
wells, cisterns, mineshaft bore holes, former or current waste disposal
facilities or other significant features.
         h.   Other conditions on adjacent lands, including approximate
directions and gradient of ground slope, any embankments or retaining walls,
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; adjacent platted land including references to subdivision plat
by name, recording date and number, and showing approximate percent build up,
typical lot size and dwelling type.
         i.   Proposed public improvements including highways, utilities or
other major improvements planned by public authorities for future construction
on or near the tract.
         j.   Location and widths and other dimensions and names of the
proposed streets, alleys, roads, sewers, storm mains, water mains, and gas
lines, and other easements, parks, schools and open spaces or reserved areas.
         k.   Grades of proposed public and private roadways.
         l.   The preliminary plat shall be submitted by the developer to all
utility companies serving the plat for recommendations concerning easements.
         m.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single-family
dwellings.
         n.   Minimum building setback lines. All lots shall contain a minimum
setback building line of thirty feet (30') from the front lot line.
         o.   Site data, including number of residential lots, typical lot size
and acres in parks, etc.
         p.   Subsurface conditions of the tract, including locations and
results of tests made to ascertain subsurface soil, rock and ground water
conditions to bedrock. Locations and results of soil percolation tests and soil
profiles to six feet (6') or to bedrock or ground water shall be provided on
each lot if private sewage disposal systems are proposed.
         q.   Draft copy of all restrictive covenants, if any, whereby the
subdivider proposes to regulate land use in the subdivision and otherwise
protect the proposed development.
   B.   Submission To County Officials; Comments: Within fourteen (14) working
days of receipt of the preliminary plat, the plat officer shall send one copy
each to the following public officials or offices: department of health,
supervisor of assessments, appropriate school board president, sheriff's
department, soil and water conservation district, county recorder's office,
appropriate township road commissioner and any village or town within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the proposed subdivision. Within fourteen (14) working
days from receipt, these officials or offices may comment on the preliminary
plat and file the comments with the plat officer. Failure of any of the
officials or offices to return comments within the fourteen (14) working days
shall constitute a comment of approval of the preliminary plat by that office
or official.
   C.   Review And Approval: The following procedure shall be adhered to by all
parties described in this subsection:
      1.   Review By Plat Officer: Upon receipt of the comments concerning any
preliminary plat which requires planning commission action, the plat officer
shall file the comments and one copy of the preliminary plat with the planning
commission.
      2.   Review By Planning Commission: At the next scheduled meeting
following submission of a proposed subdivision, the planning commission shall
review the preliminary plat, application materials and comments to ensure
conformity with these regulations. Prior to the meeting, the meeting time and
place for review of the preliminary plat shall be posted in the county
courthouse, and be given by the planning commission to the offices or officers
which may be concerned. The subdivider shall also post the property with a
placard provided by the plat officer which shall state the date, time and
location of the meeting and a general description of the proposed subdivision.
The subdivider or his representative shall be notified of the time and place
for review and shall attend this meeting to explain the plat and answer
questions. Particular note shall be made that any planned major highways or
other planned public facilities in the county in the area of the subdivision
being reviewed are accommodated in the proposed plat. At the planning
commission meeting next after the subdivider's filing for preliminary approval,
but not less than fourteen (14) days after said fling, the planning commission
shall recommend to the county board that the preliminary plat has been
approved, approved subject to modification or disapproved. If the plat
generally meets final plat conditions, or can be made to meet final plat
conditions with only minor modifications, the planning commission may approve
the plat as a final plat, once planning commission modifications are met and
the revised plot is reviewed and approved by the plat officer. The terms of
stipulations for such conditional approval shall be furnished to the subdivider
and the plat officer at the completion of the planning commission meeting, and
a written record of the terms or stipulations from the minutes of the meeting
shall be sent to the subdivider and to the county board. If disapproved, the
planning commission shall submit to the subdivider, with a copy sent to the
county board, a statement setting forth reasons for disapproval, including,
particularly, the aspects in which the proposed plat failed to conform to the
requirements of this title. Failure of the planning commission to act at the
planning commission meeting next after the subdivider's filing, but not less
than fourteen (14) days after said filing with the plat officer, shall be
deemed approval of the preliminary plat, unless, however, an extension of time
is mutually agreed upon by the subdivider and the planning commission.
   D.   Time Limit On Preliminary Approval:
      1.   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for twelve (12)
months, from the date of approval; except, however, the planning commission,
upon written request of the subdivider and advice of the plat officer, may
grant an extension of time.
      2.   If the final plat is not filed with the plat officer within twelve
(12) months or authorized extension by the planning commission is not granted,
all previous approvals of the preliminary plat shall become null and void,
unless the plat officer determines that strict enforcement of this subsection
D2 would act as an unfair penalty on a subdivider who is attempting to properly
comply with requirements of this title. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-3-3: IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Improvements shall be provided in accordance with the standards and
requirements as determined by the county board, superintendent and department
of health.
   B.   Prior to the submission of the final plat, the subdivider shall secure
from the superintendent and the department of health approval of the final
construction drawings for street and sanitary improvements. In lieu of this,
the subdivider shall, to ensure the satisfactory installation of said
improvements in accordance with the county board's regulations, post with the
county clerk a surety bond or a performance bond, suitable to the county board,
sufficient to cover one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of said
improvements, based upon estimates approved by the superintendent and the
department of health. Improvements shall be installed as provided in chapters 4
and 5 of this title. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-3-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Preparation And Filing: Following approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider shall cause to be prepared a final plat and other material required
in filing for final approval. Application for final approval shall consist of
filing one copy of the plat with the county recorder's office, only if the
preliminary plat requirements have been waived, and with the plat officer, the
reproducible final plat and eight (8) or more copies and additional information
as outlined below:
      1.   Final plat, drawn to the scale of one inch to one hundred feet (1" =
100') or less. The final plat may include all or only part of the preliminary
plat and shall be submitted no smaller than eight and one-half inches by
fourteen inches (81/2" x 14") and no larger than thirty inches by thirty six
inches (30" x 36").
      2.   Legal description of the property, including references to the
section, township and range; section lines and corners; quarter section lines.
      3.   All plat boundary lines with lines of courses to hundredths of a
foot and bearings or angles based on an accurate survey in the field.
      4.   The exact locations and widths of streets, existing or recorded,
intersecting or paralleling the boundaries of the tract.
      5.   All established survey lines, including bearing and distances to the
nearest established street or road boundaries; official monuments, which
monuments shall be located or accurately described on the plat. Any established
survey or corporation lines shall be accurately monument marked and located on
the plat, and their names shall be lettered on them.
      6.   Permanent reference monuments accurately located and designated as
to material of construction. Such monuments shall be steel rods not less than
three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and thirty six inches (36") long, located
at all street corners, at all points where street lines intersect the plat
boundary lines and at angle points and points of curve in each street; and
shall be three-fourths inch (3/4") round or square pins, thirty six inches
(36") in length, at all lot corners. At any boundary or quarter section, pins
disturbed by construction or grading shall be reset by a registered land
surveyor.
      7.   The exact layout including:
         a.   Street and alley lines including their names, bearings, angles of
intersection and width (also including widths along the line of any obliquely
intersecting street).
         b.   The lengths of all arcs-radii, points of curvature and tangent
bearings.
         c.   All easements or rights of way, when provided for or owned by
public services (with the limitation of easement definitely stated on the
plat).
         d.   All lot lines with dimensions in feet and hundredths, and
bearings or angles if other than right angles to the street and alley lines.
      8.   Lots and blocks, both numbered in numerical order, including street
addresses.
      9.   Properly dedicated for public use accurately outlined, and the
accurate outline of all property that may be reserved by covenant in the deeds
for the common use of the property owners in the subdivision, with the purpose
indicated thereon.
      10.   Minimum setback lines shown for front yards and for corner lots.
Lines of future streets or roads as shown on the adopted transportation plan
and those setback lines stipulated in deed restrictions shall be shown.
      11.   Private restrictions, if any, indicating:
         a.   Boundaries of each type of use restriction.
         b.   Other private restrictions of each restricted section of the
subdivision.
      12.   Name of the subdivision and name of number of the largest
subdivision or tract of which the tract being subdivided forms a part.
      13.   Names of adjoining subdivisions.
      14.   Names and addresses of the owner or owners of record, the
subdivider and of the registered land surveyor who prepared the plat.
      15.   True north point, scale and date.
      16.   Certification by the owner, county clerk, county board chairperson
or municipal official, if the property is within the one and one-half (11/2)
miles of a zoned municipality, and registered land surveyor who prepared the
plat to the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him, that all
monuments indicated thereon actually exist, and that their location, size and
material are correctly shown.
      17.   A performance bond or guarantee, if required by the plat officer or
the county board, approved in form and type by the superintendent of highways,
department of health and the state's attorney, of an amount adequate to cover
one hundred ten percent (110%) of the estimate of required street improvements
and sanitary improvements to be installed by the owner or subdivider within one
year of acceptance of the plat; said estimate to be approved by the plat
officer.
      18.   Size of each lot or parcel in square feet for lots of less than one
acre and in acres and hundredths of acres for lots of more than one acre.
   B.   Review And Approval:
      1.   Final Disposition By County Board: At the first regular meeting next
after the final recommendation concerning the plat by the planning commission,
the developer or his agent shall present said plat to the county board. The
county board shall either approve or disapprove the plat. Upon disapproval of
any plat, the county board shall transmit one copy of the disapproved plat,
along with stated reasons for which the plat was disapproved, to the developer.
The plat officer shall retain one copy of the disapproved plat, accompanied by
the stated reasons for the disapproval of the plat in his files.
      2.   Recording Plat: The subdivider shall have the final plat recorded
with the county recorder of deeds within six (6) months after final approval by
the county board. If not recorded within this time, the approval shall be null
and void, unless otherwise agreed by the subdivider and the county board.
(Amended Ord., 9-1991)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: General Requirements
9-4-2: Street And Block Layout
9-4-3: Minimum Widths Of Streets, Alleys And Easements
9-4-4: Pavement Widths
9-4-5: Street Grades, Curves And Sight Distances
9-4-6: Intersections
9-4-7: Street And Alley Cross Sections
9-4-8: Lots
9-4-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
In laying out a subdivision, the subdivider shall comply with the following
general principles and requirements:
   A.   Where considered desirable by the planning commission and held
appropriate by the county board, open spaces suitably located and of adequate
size for parks, playgrounds and other recreational purposes for local or
neighborhood use may be provided for in the design of the proposed subdivision
and, if not dedicated to the public and accepted by the appropriate public
body, may be reserved for the common use of all property owners in the proposed
subdivision by covenant in the deeds.
   B.   All dwellings not connected to public water and sewage systems shall
meet all requirements of the Illinois water well construction code 1 , the
Illinois private sewage disposal licensing act and code 2 , and the county
private sewage disposal ordinance 3 . (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
3 3. See title 5, chapter 8 of this code.
9-4-2: STREET AND BLOCK LAYOUT:
   A.   The proposed street layout of the subdivision shall be planned so as to
promote the most advantageous development of the subdivision and adjoining
areas.
   B.   Where appropriate to the design, proposed streets shall be continuous
and in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with which they are
to connect.
   C.   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the tract
to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical conditions,
or unless, in the opinion of the county board, such extension is not necessary
or desirable for the coordination of the layout of the subdivision with
existing layouts or the most advantageous future development of adjacent
tracts. Cul-de-sacs of reasonable length will be approved where topography
necessitates or where they are appropriate for the type of development
contemplated.
   D.   Proposed streets shall intersect one another as nearly at right angles
as topography and other limiting factors of good design.
   E.   Whenever there exists, adjoining the tract to be subdivided, a
dedicated or platted and recorded half width street, the other half width of
such street shall be platted.
   F.   Upon the approval or recommendation of the plat officer, the turnaround
at the end of a cul-de-sac shall be modified to a T or Y intersection. The T or
Y may not be less than sixty feet (60') in length. Both ends of the T or Y may
be dead ends.
   G.   Residential streets shall be so laid out that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged.
   H.   Frontage roads may be required by the county superintendent of highways
when he determines that such roads are necessary.
   I.   Access roads serving more than two (2) lots must comply with types I,
II and III regulations (subsections 9-4-7A, B and C of this chapter)
(regulations determined by the plat officer). (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-4-3: MINIMUM WIDTHS OF STREETS, ALLEYS AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   Secondary thoroughfare shall not be less than sixty six feet (66')
wide.
   B.   Residential streets shall not be less than sixty six feet (66') wide.
   C.   Turnarounds at the end of cul-de-sacs shall be not less than one
hundred feet (100') paved diameter, having a minimum right of way diameter of
one hundred twenty feet (120').
   D.   Alleys shall not be less than twenty feet (20') in width.
   E.   Easements for utilities, where required, should be at least ten feet
(10') wide and adjacent to street right of way lines. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-4-4: PAVEMENT WIDTHS:
   A.   The portion of the roadway required to be installed at the subdivider's
expense shall be as provided in section
9-4-7 of this chapter. The cost of curb and gutter, if required by the county
board, shall be borne by the subdivider. A T or Y shaped paved space, when
approved by the county board, may be used as a temporary measure at the end of
the dead end street until such time as the street is continued.
   B.   Alleys shall be paved to a width of sixteen feet (16'). (Amended Ord.,
9-1991)
9-4-5: STREET GRADES, CURVES AND SIGHT DISTANCES:
   A.   The grades of streets shall not be less than five-tenths percent (0.5%)
nor exceed the following:
      1.   Secondary thoroughfares, designated as such on the transportation
plan: Five percent (5%) unless prevented by topography.
      2.   Residential streets and alleys: Ten percent (10%).
      3.   Pedestrianways or crosswalks: Twenty percent (20%) unless steps of
an acceptable design are to be constructed.
   B.   All changes in street grades above one percent (1%) shall be connected
by vertical curves of a minimum length in feet equal to thirty (30) times the
algebraic difference in the rate of grade for thoroughfares and one-half (1/2)
of the minimum for all streets.
   C.   The radii of curvature on the centerline shall not be less than three
hundred fifty feet (350') for thoroughfares nor less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') for residential streets and alleys. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-4-6: INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Curb returns, where required, at street intersections shall be rounded
by radii of at least fifteen feet (15').
   B.   Streets shall intersect as close to a ninety degree (90°) angle as
possible. Minimum radii of curb returns shall be increased where the angle of
the intersection is less than ninety degrees (90°). (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-4-7: STREET AND ALLEY CROSS SECTIONS:
The following cross sections shall govern the surfacing for installation of
streets and alleys in subdivisions:
   A.   Type I, Low Density Residential:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1431.gif]
      1.   Right Of Way: Right of way shall not be less than sixty six feet
(66'). The entire right of way shall be graded to the proposed typical section
determined by the plat officer.
      2.   Base: Base shall be eight (8) to eighteen inches (18") of graded
aggregate and shall be cored. Aggregate shall be laid in four inch (4") lifts
and compacted. Depth and type of aggregate, and whether road stabilization
fabric shall be used, will be determined by the county engineer, based on soil
samples.
      3.   Surface: Riding surface shall be determined by the county engineer
and the local agency which the subdivision falls under.
      4.   Guidelines: All construction for these regulations will be
guidelined by the standard specifications for road and bridge construction,
Illinois division of highways. A representative of the county shall be
contacted before construction begins.
      5.   Side Slopes: Side slopes shall be seeded and protection provided
against erosion.
   B.   Type II, Medium Density Residential And County Trunk Highways:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1433.gif]
      1.   Right Of Way: Right of way shall not be less than sixty six feet
(66'). The entire right of way shall be graded to the proposed typical section
determined by the plat officer.
      2.   Base: Base shall be eight (8) to eighteen inches (18") of graded
aggregate and shall be cored. Aggregate shall be laid in four inch (4") lifts
and compacted. Depth and type of aggregate, and whether road stabilization
fabric shall be used, will be determined by the county engineer, based on soil
samples.
      3.   Surface: Riding surface shall be determined by the county engineer
and the local agency which the subdivision falls under.
      4.   Guidelines: All construction for these regulations will be
guidelined by the standard specifications for road and bridge construction,
Illinois division of highways. A representative of the county shall be
contacted before construction begins.
      5.   Side Slopes: Side slopes shall be seeded and protection provided
against erosion.
   C.   Type III, Residential Section With Curb And Gutter:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/26027c3297ab63faf9d74c76e3a6e49d82df92c9/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1435.gif]
      1.   Right Of Way: Right of way shall not be less than fifty feet (50').
The entire right of way shall be graded to the proposed typical section
determined by the plat officer.
      2.   Base: Base shall be eight (8) to eighteen inches (18") of graded
aggregate and shall be cored. Aggregate shall be laid in four inch (4") lifts
and compacted. Depth and type of aggregate, and whether road stabilization
fabric shall be used, will be determined by the county engineer, based on soil
samples.
      3.   Surface: Riding surface and curb and gutter shall be determined by
the county engineer and the local agency which the subdivision falls under.
      4.   Guidelines: All construction for these regulations will be
guidelined by the standard specifications for road and bridge construction,
Illinois division of highways. A representative of the county shall be
contacted before construction begins.
      5.   Side Slopes: Side slopes shall be seeded and protection provided
against erosion. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-4-8: LOTS:
   A.   Size:
      1.   Lots not served by public sewer systems and public water systems
shall be a one acre minimum and shall meet all requirements established to
protect public health in the county.
      2.   Lots lacking public sewer but with public water systems shall be at
least thirty thousand (30,000) square feet and at least one hundred feet (100')
wide at the building lot lines.
      3.   Lots having both public water and sewer shall be at least twelve
thousand (12,000) square feet and at least eighty feet (80') wide at the
building line.
      4.   Percolation tests and related public health measures shall be used
in all cases, and reference is hereby made to the sewage disposal ordinance of
the county, and the above stated minimum requirements may be modified upon
report of appropriate state and county agencies.
   B.   Abut Public Right Of Way Or Private Road: Every lot shall abut on a
public right of way dedicated for street purposes or a private road or
easement.
   C.   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use ordinarily shall be
platted wider than interior lots in order to permit conformance with the
required building setbacks of thirty feet (30') on each side facing a street.
   D.   Residential Lots Fronting On Roadways: Residential lots fronting on
highways, thoroughfares and parkways shall have extra depth to permit deep
setbacks for frontage roads which the plat officer may require.
   E.   Side Lot Lines:
      1.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to the right
of way line of the street on which the lot fronts.
      2.   Side lots lines on curved streets shall be radial to the right of
way line of the street on which the lot fronts.
   F.   Sewer And Water Systems: Lots not served by public sewer systems and/or
public water systems shall meet all requirements established to protect public
health in the county.
   G.   Minimum Setbacks:
      1.   All lots shall contain a minimum setback building line of thirty
feet (30') from the front lot line.
      2.   All lots shall contain a minimum setback building line of ten feet
(10') from side lot lines. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Minimum Requirements
9-5-2: Water Supply And Sewage Disposal
9-5-3: Utilities
9-5-4: As Built Construction Drawings
9-5-5: Acceptance Of Dedications And Improvements
9-5-1: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
Improvements shall be installed in accordance with the following minimum
requirements and regulations prior to the filing of the final plat for final
approval:
   A.   All of the improvements required under this title shall be approved by
the superintendent and township highway commissioner in respect to construction
details. Proper inspection of the improvements to be installed and written
authorization to start the work shall be obtained from the superintendent and
township highway commissioner. The improvements shall be completed prior to the
filing with the county board of the final or record plat and request for final
approval, in accordance with the specifications and under the supervision of
the superintendent and the township highway commissioner or his duly licensed
representative.
   B.   In lieu of completing all of the improvements as required in subsection
A of this section, the subdivider shall furnish the county with a performance
bond or guarantee, suitable to the county board and the subdivider, sufficient
to cover the cost of any or all of the improvements required to be installed by
the subdivider, based on estimates approved by the superintendent, thereby to
secure the actual construction and installation of such improvements within one
year after the approval of the final plat, subject to extension by the county
board. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-5-2: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Water Supply: In any subdivision, individual water supplies may be
permitted, provided:
      1.   All requirements of state and county regulations are fully met; and
      2.   Private restrictions are filed with the final plat and incorporated
in each deed so that as soon as a public water supply system is available,
connections to the system will be made at the property owner's expense, and so
that owners will bear their fair, proportionate share of the cost of the water
main as determined by agreement, special assessment proceeding or other means
authorized by law to finance construction of water systems.
   B.   Stormwater And Surface Water Drainage: There shall be provided
stormwater sewage or a surface drainage system to serve adequately the area
being platted. The following may be required by the planning commission or the
county board:
      1.   The recommendations of the planning commission and the
superintendent.
      2.   The use of existing drainage channels whenever possible.
      3.   The design of the drainage system shall consider and show:
         a.   Storm drainage area of which the subdivision is a part.
         b.   Calculation as to volume and frequency of water to be handled.
         c.   A scheme of culverts sufficient in size to eliminate flooding or
ponding of water.
         d.   Grades which result in erosion or ponding and, therefore, require
storm sewers.
         e.   Existing watercourse.
         f.   A plan of the subdivision's grading to prevent ponding of
stormwater and to eliminate problems of erosion.
      4.   Ditches and swales meeting the following standards may be used:
         a.   With grades from four percent (4%), ditches may have sod bottom
and banks.
         b.   With grades from four percent (4%) to ten percent (10%), ditch
checks may be required by the superintendent of highways.
         c.   Culverts must be provided at all street or driveway intersections
sized to eliminate flooding or ponding of water and with a minimum depth of
twelve inches (12").
   C.   Sewage Disposal: In every subdivision, provision shall be made for the
satisfactory disposal of sanitary sewage:
      1.   Connection To Public System: Where a public sanitary sewer main is
reasonably accessible, in the opinion of the county board, the subdivision
shall be provided with a complete sanitary sewer system connected with such
sewer main, including a service connection to within one foot (1') of each lot.
Such system shall be approved by the county health department and the state
department of public health.
      2.   Private System:
         a.   Where a public sanitary sewer main is not reasonably accessible
or because of topographic reasons not practical in the opinion of the county
board, proper provisions shall be made for the disposal of sanitary waste,
subject to the approval of the county health department. If individual disposal
systems are provided, they shall be located on each lot. The absorption of the
soil, surface drainage and topography shall be the criteria for determining
whether or not the installation of the individual septic tank disposal systems
are feasible. Feasibility shall be ascertained by the subdivider whenever
individual systems are proposed. The provisions of the county private sewage
disposal ordinance 1  shall govern the percolation tests and installation of
sewage disposal systems.
         b.   Private restrictions shall be filed with the final plat and
incorporated in each deed requiring that as soon as public sewers are
available, connections to the public sewers shall be made at the property
owner's expense, and that owners shall bear their fair, proportionate share of
the cost of the public sewer as determined by agreement, special assessment or
other means authorized by law to finance construction of sewer systems.
   D.   Excavations: Wherever excavations for storm sewer, sanitary sewer and/
or water mains and appurtenances thereto may lie beneath existing or proposed
pavement, sidewalk or drive areas, such excavation shall be backfilled by a
method and with trench fill of a type approved by the county superintendent of
highways. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 8 of this code.
9-5-3: UTILITIES:
Poles or underground conduits for electric lights, telephone lines or other
utilities shall be placed in easements provided along rear or side lot lines,
whenever it is practicable. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
9-5-4: AS BUILT CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS:
Where the construction, as performed, varies from the plans filed and approved
as hereinbefore required, as built construction drawings shall be filed with
the plat officer and the county board. The subdivider, after completion of the
public improvements, shall make, or cause to be made, a map showing the actual
location of all valves, manholes, studs, sewer and water mains, and such other
facilities as the superintendent shall require. This map shall bear the
signature and seal of a professional engineer registered in Illinois. The
presentation of this map shall be a condition of final acceptance of the
improvements and release of the surety bond assuring their completion. (Amended
Ord., 9-1991)
9-5-5: ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Final acceptance of the dedication of any street, open space or other
public area shall be the responsibility of the county highway superintendent
and the township highway commissioner.
   B.   Approval of the final plat shall be dependent on presentation of proof
of responsibility for the maintenance, and operating costs of all community
improvements. (Amended Ord., 9-1991)
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Purpose
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Base Flood Elevation
10-1-4: Duties Of The Floodplain Officer
10-1-5: Development Permit
10-1-6: Preventing Increased Flood Heights And Resulting Damages
10-1-7: Protecting Buildings
10-1-8: Subdivision Requirements
10-1-9: Public Health And Other Standards
10-1-10: Carrying Capacity And Notification
10-1-11: Variances
10-1-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-1-13: Penalty
10-1-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-1-15: Severability
10-1-16: Effective Date
10-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to Jo Daviess
County by county statutory authority in 55 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1041
and 5/5-1063 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
10-1-3 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BUILDING: A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage tank
that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes, prefabricated
buildings and gas or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational
vehicles and travel trailers installed on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of
the population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the
disaster. Damage to these critical facilities can impact the delivery of vital
services, can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can
put special populations at risk.
Examples of critical facilities where flood protection should be required
include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police stations),
schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities, major roads
and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations or electrical
transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities (chemicals,
petrochemicals, hazardous or toxic substances).
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks; and
   H.   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one foot
(1') of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These two (2) terms are
synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction of the county that are subject
to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the county are generally
identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Jo Daviess County
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated December 2, 2015.
Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the
community.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the base
flood. The floodway for the floodplains of the Mississippi River shall be as
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Jo Daviess County
prepared by FEMA and dated December 2, 2015. The floodways for each of the
remaining floodplains of Jo Daviess County shall be according to the best data
available from the federal, state, or other sources.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register.
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district.
   C.   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency.
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources/office of water resources.
IDNR/OWR JURISDICTIONAL STREAM: Illinois department of natural resources/office
of water resources has jurisdiction over any stream serving a tributary area of
six hundred forty (640) acres or more in an urban area, or in the floodway of
any stream serving a tributary area of six thousand four hundred (6,400) acres
or more in a rural area. Construction on these streams requires a permit from
the department (Ill. adm. code tit. 17, pt. 3700.30). The department may grant
approval for specific types of activities by issuance of a statewide permit
which meets the standards defined in section
10-1-6 of this chapter.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor. Provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of section
10-1-7 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more lots for rent or sale.
NFIP: National flood insurance program.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less in size;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
SFHA: See definition of Floodplain And Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued. This, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement, was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a
substantial improvement, actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: See definition of Building.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cumulative percentage of damage during the life of the building equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes "repetitive
loss buildings" (see definition of Repetitive Loss).
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure taking place during the life of the building in
which the cumulative percentage of improvements:
   A.   Equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started, or
   B.   Increases the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%).
"Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of
any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive loss or
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
The term does not include:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or the Illinois register of historic places.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in violation until such time as
the documentation is provided. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-3: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
the existing data with better data and submit it to FEMA and IDNR/OWR for
approval prior to any development of the site.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Mississippi River,
Galena River, Apple River and Hughlett Branch shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance study of Jo Daviess
County prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated December
2, 2015.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an "AH zone"
or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of Jo Daviess County.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Jo
Daviess County shall be according to the best data available from federal,
state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering study must
be financed by the applicant to determine base flood elevations. (Ord. 2015-6,
11-10-2015)
10-1-4: DUTIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN OFFICER:
The floodplain officer shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of Jo Daviess County meet the requirements of this
chapter. Specifically, the floodplain officer shall:
   A.   Process development permits in accordance with section
10-1-5 of this chapter;
   B.   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of section
10-1-6 of this chapter;
   C.   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to section
10-1-7 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the "as built"
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   D.   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
section
10-1-8 of this chapter;
   E.   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of section
10-1-9 of this chapter;
   F.   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of section
10-1-11 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
   G.   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty actions
outlined in section
10-1-13 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
   H.   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
   I.   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse;
   J.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   K.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
   L.   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps, copies
of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for development
activities subject to this chapter;
   M.   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter and
make substantial damage determinations for structures within the floodplain;
and
   N.   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six (6) months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law shall
commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the floodplain officer. The floodplain officer shall
not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      1.   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      2.   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      3.   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      4.   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
10-1-7 of this chapter; and
      5.   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the floodplain
officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that is shown by survey elevation to be below
the current base flood elevation is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
In addition, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected to a flood source, but not identified as
floodplain on the current flood insurance rate map, is subject to the
provisions of this chapter. Any development located on land that can be shown
by survey data to be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has
not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map is
not in the floodplain and therefore not subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
   The floodplain officer shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
   The floodplain officer shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant
copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit not
required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The floodplain
officer shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and local
permits have been obtained. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-6: PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES:
Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate map, and
within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety. The following specific development activities shall
be considered as meeting this requirement:
      1.   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the
conditions of the Illinois department of natural resources/office of water
resources statewide permit number 2.
      2.   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 3.
      3.   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 4.
      4.   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit
number 5.
      5.   Minor, nonobstructive activities such as underground utility lines,
light poles, signposts, driveways, athletic fields, patios, playground
equipment, minor storage buildings not exceeding seventy (70) square feet and
raising buildings on the same footprint which does not involve fill and any
other activity meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 6.
      6.   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 7.
      7.   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 8.
      8.   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
statewide permit number 9.
      9.   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 10.
      10.   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 11.
      11.   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR statewide permit number 12.
      12.   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR statewide permit number 13.
      13.   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit
requirements.
   B.   Other development activities not listed in subsection A of this section
may be permitted only if:
      1.   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required), or
      2.   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the state permit and damage prevention requirements of
section
10-1-6 of this chapter, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
      2.   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than twenty percent
(20%) or equal or exceed the market value by fifty percent (50%). Alteration
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
improved, the existing structure and the addition must meet the flood
protection standards of this section.
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively during the life of the building. If substantially
damaged the entire structure must meet the flood protection standards of this
section within twenty four (24) months of the date the damage occurred.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage.)
      5.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year.
      6.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
10-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      1.   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
         a.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation.
         b.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the
foundation before sloping below the flood protection elevation.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure.
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
         e.   Shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage from or
onto neighboring properties and when necessary stormwater management techniques
such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawl space, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters.
         b.   All components located below the flood protection elevation shall
be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
         c.   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         d.   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with a minimum of two (2) openings.
The openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch
for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base
flood elevation, and
         e.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice, and floating debris.
            (1)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed.
            (2)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space, or
            (3)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply
with these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
      3.   The building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade.
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade.
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet (4') at any point.
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event.
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage, and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
   C.   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in lieu
of elevation) provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
      1.   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood.
      2.   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice.
      3.   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      4.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
   D.   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      1.   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance
with subsection B of this section, and
      2.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile
home tiedown act issued pursuant to 77 Illinois administrative code section
870.
   E.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of
subsection D of this section unless the following conditions are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light duty
truck.
      2.   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      3.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      4.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      5.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
four hundred (400) square feet.
      6.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      7.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement of the floodplain.
      8.   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick disconnect.
      9.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and
      10.   Must either:
         a.   Entirely be supported by jacks, or
         b.   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching
the ground and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to
be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   F.   Garages, sheds or other minor accessory structures constructed
ancillary to an existing residential use may be permitted provided the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable.
      2.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      3.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have
the appropriate state and/or federal permits.
      4.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      5.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      6.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      7.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of opening
for every one square foot of floor area.
      8.   The garage or shed must be less than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or less
than five hundred seventy six (576) square feet (24' x 24').
      9.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and overturning.
      10.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      11.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-8: SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS:
The Jo Daviess County board shall take into account hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of sections
10-1-6 and
10-1-7 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      1.   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain, where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      2.   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      3.   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located and laid
out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and channels.
Wherever possible the floodplains shall be included within parks or other
public grounds. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
10-1-9: PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS:
   A.   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of sections
10-1-6 and
10-1-7 of this chapter the following standards apply:
      1.   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of section
10-1-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      3.   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      4.   New and replacement on site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the flood protection elevation shall be watertight.
      5.   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permitted within the floodplain only if no
feasible alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within
the SFHA shall be elevated or structurally dry floodproofed to the 500-year
flood frequency elevation. In situations where a 500-year flood elevation has
not been determined, the flood protection elevation shall be three feet (3')
above the 100-year flood frequency elevation. Floodproofing and sealing
measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances will not be displaced by
or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated to or above the level of
the base flood elevation shall be provided to all critical facilities.
   B.   All other activities defined as "development" shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-
10-2015)
10-1-10: CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION:
For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream maintenance
(including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be
maintained.
In addition, Jo Daviess County shall notify adjacent communities in writing
thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or
relocation of the watercourse. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Jo Daviess County planning
commission for a variance. The Jo Daviess County planning commission shall
review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the Jo Daviess County board. The Jo Daviess County board may
attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to
further the intent of this chapter.
   A.   Conditions Met: No variance shall be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates that all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   B.   Notification To Applicant: The Jo Daviess County planning commission
shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of
the building protections standards of section
10-1-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Historic Structures:
      1.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
10-1-7 of this chapter which are requested in connection with reconstruction,
repair, or alteration of a historic site or historic structure as defined in
"historic structures", may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of sections
10-1-6 and
10-1-7 of this chapter subject to the conditions that:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure.
         b.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure
being removed as a certified historic structure.
   D.   Agriculture: Any variance granted for an agricultural structure shall
be decided individually based on a case by case analysis of the building's
unique circumstances. Variances granted shall meet the following conditions as
well as those criteria and conditions set forth in this chapter.
In order to minimize flood damages during the 100-year flood and the threat to
public health and safety, the following conditions shall be included for any
variance issued for agricultural structures that are constructed at grade and
wet floodproofed:
      1.   All agricultural structures considered for a variance from the
floodplain management regulations of this chapter shall demonstrate that the
varied structure is located in wide, expansive floodplain areas and no other
alternate location outside of the special flood hazard area exists for the
agricultural structure. Residential structures or animal confinement
facilities, such as farmhouses, cannot be considered agricultural structures.
      2.   Use of the varied structures must be limited to agricultural
purposes in zone A only as identified on the community's flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
      3.   For any new or substantially damaged agricultural structures, the
exterior and interior building components and elements (i.e., foundation, wall
framing, exterior and interior finishes, flooring, etc.) below the base flood
elevation, must be built with flood resistant materials in accordance with
section
10-1-7 of this chapter.
      4.   The agricultural structures must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structures in accordance with
section
10-1-7 of this chapter. All of the building's structural components must be
capable of resisting specific flood related forces including hydrostatic,
buoyancy, and hydrodynamic and debris impact forces.
      5.   Any mechanical, electrical, or other utility equipment must be
located above the base flood elevation or floodproofed so that they are
contained within a watertight, floodproofed enclosure that is capable of
resisting damage during flood conditions in accordance with section
10-1-7 of this chapter.
      6.   The NFIP requires that enclosure or foundation walls, subject to the
100-year flood, contain openings that will permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters in accordance with subsection 10-1-7B of this chapter.
      7.   The agricultural structures must comply with the floodplain
management floodway provisions of section
10-1-6 of this chapter. No variances may be issued for agricultural structures
within any designated floodway.
      8.   Wet floodproofing construction techniques must be reviewed and
approved by the floodplain administrator and a registered professional engineer
or architect prior to the issuance of any floodplain development permit for
construction. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
Jo Daviess County or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-13: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or failure to
comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the floodplain officer may
determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The
floodplain officer shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   Jo Daviess County shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues, and
      4.   Jo Daviess County shall record a notice of violation on the title of
the property.
   B.   The floodplain officer shall inform the owner that any such violation
is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   The floodplain officer is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked until a
hearing is held by the Jo Daviess County planning commission. Written notice of
such hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or revocation,
and
      2.   The time and place of the hearing.
   At such hearing the permittee shall be given an opportunity to present
evidence on their behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Jo Daviess
County planning commission shall determine whether the permit shall be
suspended or revoked.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent Jo Daviess County from taking such other
lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected
therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-
10-2015)
10-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Jo Daviess
County board to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance
program including: the September 14, 2010, "Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance".
However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance
adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal,
abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-15: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity of the
remainder. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
10-1-16: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval, and publication as required by law. (Ord. 2015-6, 11-10-2015)
